an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
p is a process boundary =def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
b is a continuant fiat boundary = def .
b is a process_profile =def .
b is a relational quality = def .
a monocarboxylic acid comprising 1 , 8 - naphthyridin - 4 - one substituted by carboxylic acid ,  ethyl and methyl groups at positions 3 ,  1 ,  and 7 ,  respectively .
a  quinolone that is quinolin - 4 ( 1h )  - one bearing cyclopropyl ,  carboxylic acid ,  fluoro and piperazin - 1 - yl substituents at positions 1 ,  3 ,  6 and 7 ,  respectively .
a quinolinemonocarboxylic acid with broad - spectrum antibacterial activity against most gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria .
a sulfonamide antibacterial with an oxazole substituent .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
an organic sodium salt resulting from the replacement of the proton from the carboxy group of benzoic acid by a sodium ion .
the conjugate base of gamma - amino - beta - hydroxybutyric acid arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a 3 - hydroxymonocarboxylic acid that is the 3 - hydroxy derivative of 3 - butenoic acid .
a disaccharide formed by a  ( 1 <  -  > 1 )  - glycosidic bond between two hexopyranose units .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mycoplasma genitalium .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 24 - carbon  ( cholane )  skeleton .
any steroid  ( or derivative )  based on a cholane skeleton .
any steroid acid anion based on a cholanic acid skeleton .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of any cholanic acid conjugate .
a class of carbonyl compound encompassing dicarboxylic acids and any derivatives obtained by substitution of either one or both of the carboxy hydrogens .
any quinone in which one or more of the carbons making up the quinone moiety is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a naphthoquinone in which the oxo groups of the quinone moiety are at positions 1 and 4 of the parent naphthalene ring .
any naphthoquinone in which the naphthaoquinone moiety is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any member of the class of 1 , 4 - naphthoquinones in which the naphthoquinone moiety is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
a citrate anion obtained by deprotonation of the three carboxy groups as well as the hydroxy group of citric acid .
any aromatic amide obtained by acylation of aniline .
a reagent that lightens or whitens a substrate through chemical reaction .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of any tartaric acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of maleic acid .
an oxo fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 3 - oxo fatty acid .
an inorganic oxide that is an oxide of any metal .
a quaternary ammonium salt with choline cation and chloride anion .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy and one of the phosphate oh groups as well as protonation of the amino group of glyphosate .
a tricarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of citric acid .
a tricarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of pimelic acid .
an l - threonine derivative obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of 4 -  ( {4 -  [  ( morpholin - 4 - yl ) methyl ] phenyl}ethynyl ) benzoic acid with the amino group of n - hydroxy - l - threoninamide .
any compound that inhibits the biosynthesis of any lipopolysaccharide .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of udp - 3 - o - acyl - n - acetylglucosamine deacetylase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .108 )  .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to r ,  which can represent hydrogens ,  a carbon chain ,  or other groups .
an n - oxide where there are three organic groups bonded to the nitrogen atom .
any oxo fatty acid in which an oxo substituent is located at position 3 .
a class containing any titanium molecular entity that is an oxide of titanium .
a nanoparticle composed of any titanium oxide .
a diol in which the two hydroxy groups are on different carbon atoms ,  usually but not necessarily adjacent .
organonitrogen compounds that have the general structure r ( 1 )  ( r ( 2 )  ) c=n ( o ) oh  ( r ( 1 )  , r ( 2 )  = h ,  organyl )  .
an organic group derived from any 3 - oxo - delta ( 4 )  - steroid .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  undergoes conversion by biochemical  ( enzymatic )  ,  chemical  ( possibly following an enzymatic step )  ,  or physical  ( e .g .
a 3 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of acetoacetic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
water - soluble carbon monoxide - releasing molecule .
an atom of an element that exhibits properties that are between those of metals and nonmetals ,  or that has a mixture of them .
a compound formally derived from ammonium by replacing three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
any compound that can disrupt the functions of the endocrine  ( hormone )  system
a d - glucose monophosphate in which the phosphate group is attached to position 6 .
a glycerol monophosphate having the phosphate group located at position 1 .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from hydrogen sulfide .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
a 3 - oxo monocarboxylic acid that is butyric acid bearing a 3 - oxo substituent .
a thiol comprising a panthothenate unit in phosphoric anhydride linkage with a 3' , 5' - adenosine diphosphate unit ;  and an aminoethanethiol unit .
an acyl - coa having acetyl as its s - acetyl component .
a choline that is the parent compound of the cholines class ,  consisting of ethanolamine having three methyl substituents attached to the amino function .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is propanoic acid with an amino group at position 2 and a sulfanyl group at position 3 .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of pyruvic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a simple monocarboxylic acid containing two carbons .
a sulfonium compound that is the s - adenosyl derivative of l - methionine .
an adenosine 5' - phosphate in which the 5' - phosphate is a triphosphate group .
the simplest  ( and the only achiral )  proteinogenic amino acid ,  with a hydrogen atom as its side chain .
an acyl - coa that results from the formal condensation of the thiol group of coenzyme a with the carboxy group of phenylacetic acid .
the d - enantiomer of alanine .
an optically active form of malate having  ( r )  - configuration .
an optically active form of malate having  ( s )  - configuration .
a c4 - dicarboxylate resulting from deprotonation of both carboxy groups of malic acid .
the d - enantiomer of tartaric acid .
a 2 , 3 - dihydroxybutanedioic acid that has meso configuration .
a tetraric acid that is butanedioic acid substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 2 and 3 .
an imidazolidine - 2 , 4 - dione that is 5 - aminohydantoin in which a carbamoyl group is attached to the exocyclic nitrogen .
aldehydic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h ,  n  > = 2 )  and their intramolecular hemiacetals .
any alpha - amino acid having l - configuration at the alpha - carbon .
a pyrimidine ribonucleoside 5' - triphosphate having uracil as the nucleobase .
a tertiary amine oxide resulting from the oxidation of the amino group of trimethylamine .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of formic acid .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid resulting from the formal oxidation of each of the terminal methyl groups of butane to the corresponding carboxy group .
a primary amino compound obtained by formal decarboxylation of the amino acid tyrosine .
any n - acyl - amino acid in which the amino acid moiety has d configuration .
an n - acyl - d - glucosamine 6 - phosphate that is the  n - acetyl derivative of d - glucosamine 6 - phosphate .
a d - alpha - amino acid that is the d - isomer of arginine .
fructose is a levorotatory monosaccharide and an isomer of glucose .
a fatty acid with a chain length ranging from c13 to c22 .
an organic heterobicyclic compound that consists of 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazole having a valeric acid substituent attached to the tetrahydrothiophene ring .
any mono - phosphorylated d - hexose having a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
an sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate having unsubstituted hydroxy groups .
an n - acyl - d - glucosamine phosphate having the phosphate group placed at the 6 - position .
the d - enantiomer of glucaric acid .
an optically active form of lactate having  ( r )  - configuration .
a ketotriose consisting of acetone bearing hydroxy substituents at positions 1 and 3 .
a purine ribonucleoside 5' - monophosphate having adenine as the nucleobase .
an aminopyrimidine that is pyrimidin - 2 - one having the amino group located at position 4 .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
a cyclic dicarboximide in which the two carboacyl groups on nitrogen together with the nitogen itself form a 1h - pyrrole - 2 , 5 - dione structure .
a gamma - amino acid comprising 4 - aminobutyric acid having a 2 - hydroxy substituent .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from thiosulfuric acid .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a sulfur hydride consisting of s single sulfur atom bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
the simplest member of the class of  benzoates that is the conjugate base of benzoic acid ,  comprising a benzoic acid core with a proton missing to give a charge of  - 1 .
an n - acyl - amino acid in which amino acid specified is glycine .
a one - carbon compound in which the carbon is attached by single bonds to four hydrogen atoms .
a sulfur oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of both oh groups of sulfuric acid .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from phosphonic acid
an optically active glycerol 1 - phosphate having  ( s )  - configuration .
a 2 - aminopurine carrying a 6 - oxo substituent .
a primary alcohol that is ethane in which one of the hydrogens is substituted by a hydroxy group .
an inorganic peroxide consisting of two hydroxy groups joined by a covalent oxygen - oxygen single bond .
a pentahydroxyflavone having the five hydroxy groups placed at the 3 -  ,  3' -  ,  4' -  ,  5 -  and 7 - positions .
a monocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens has been replaced by a halogen atom .
a purine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside 5' - triphosphate having adenine as the nucleobase .
the d - enantiomer of tryptophan .
the nitrogen oxoanion formed by loss of a proton from nitrous acid .
a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of adenine attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta - n ( 9 )  - glycosidic bond .
a bile acid that is 5beta - cholan - 24 - oic acid bearing three alpha - hydroxy substituents at position 3 ,  7 and 12 .
an optically active form of cysteine having d - configuration .
an optically active form of threonine having d - configuration .
a monocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens has been replaced by a 1h - indol - 3 - yl group .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of propionic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of pantothenic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an l - alpha - amino acid that is the l - isomer of arginine .
a nitrogen oxide which is a free radical ,  each molecule of which consists of one nitrogen and one oxygen atom .
any neuraminic acid carrying an n - acyl substituent .
the r - enantiomer of serine .
a one - carbon compound with formula co2 in which the carbon is attached to each oxygen atom by a double bond .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that is the conjugate base of galactarate ( 1 -  )  .
a trehalose in which both glucose residues have alpha - configuration at the anomeric carbon .
an aminobenzoate that is the conjugate base of anthranilic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a triamine that is the 1 , 5 , 10 - triaza derivative of decane .
the l - enantiomer of methionine .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
the 1 - o - phospho derivative of l - fuculose .
an optically active form of lactate having  ( s )  - configuration .
a glycerate that is the conjugate base of d - glyceric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
a pyrimidine ribonucleoside 5' - monophosphate having uracil as the nucleobase .
a ribosyl or deoxyribosyl derivative of a pyrimidine or purine base in which c - 5 of the ribose ring is mono -  ,  di -  ,  tri -  or tetra - phosphorylated .
a penicillanic acid compound having a  ( 6r )  - amino substituent .
the parent compound of the 6 - aminopurines ,  composed of a purine having an amino group at c - 6 .
a six - carbon aromatic annulene in which each carbon atom donates one of its two 2p electrons into a delocalised pi system .
a dihydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acid that is  ( 5beta )  - cholan - 24 - oic acid substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 and 7 respectively .
a purine ribonucleoside 5' - diphosphate having adenine as the nucleobase .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a methylthio substituent at position 4 .
the l - enantiomer of tryptophan .
a tripeptide compound consisting of glutamic acid attached via its side chain to the n - terminus of cysteinylglycine .
an optically active form of threonine having l - configuration .
an optically active form of methionine having d - configuration .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid bearing an oxo group at the alpha carbon atom .
the parent compound of the pyrimidines ;  a diazine having the two nitrogens at the 1 -  and 3 - positions .
a ketohexose bisphosphate that is d - fructose substituted by phosphate groups at positions 1 and 6 .
a monohydroxybenzoic acid that is benzoic acid with a hydroxy group at the ortho position .
a tricarboxylic acid trianion ,  obtained by deprotonation of the three carboxy groups of citric acid .
a naturally - occurring beta - amino acid comprising propionic acid with the amino group in the 3 - position .
the l - enantiomer of alanine .
a ribose in which the chiral carbon atom furthest away from the aldehyde group  ( c4' )  has the same configuration as in d - glyceraldehyde .
the simplest member of the class of propane - 1 , 2 - diols ,  consisting of propane in which a hydrogen at position 1 and a hydrogen at position 2 are substituted by hydroxy groups .
an n - acylneuraminic acid where the n - acyl group is specified as acetyl .
a c21 - steroid hormone in which a pregnane skeleton carries oxo substituents at positions 3 and 20 and is unsaturated at c ( 4 )  - c ( 5 )  .
the 2 - dehydro - 3 - deoxy derivative of d - gluconic acid .
the d - enantiomer of glutamine .
a amino cyclitol glycoside that consists of streptidine having a disaccharyl moiety attached at the 4 - position .
a compound in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: r2c=o  ( neither r may be h )  .
the l - enantiomer of serine .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexanoic acid  ( also known as caproic acid )  .
an amino - acid betaine that is butanoate substituted with a hydroxy group at position c - 3 and a trimethylammonium group at c - 4 .
a four - carbon alkane - alpha , omega - diamine .
a 2 - oxo aldehyde derived from propanal .
an optically active form of asparagine having l - configuration .
a sulfur - containing amino acid consisting of a glycine core with a 2 - mercaptoethyl side - chain .
an aldohexose used as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate .
the 7h - tautomer of purine .
the conjugate base of propionic acid ;  a key precursor in lipid biosynthesis .
a butan - 4 - olide having an amino substituent at the 2 - position .
a primary arylamine in which an amino functional group is substituted for one of the benzene hydrogens .
a hexaric acid derived by oxidation of sugar such as glucose with nitric acid .
a glycosylglucose consisting of two d - glucopyranose units connected by an alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linkage .
an amino sugar whose structure comprises d - glucose having an amino substituent at position 2 .
any member of the group of substituted penams containing two methyl substituents at position 2 ,  a carboxylate substituent at position 3 and a carboxamido group at position 6 .
any d - aldose having a six - carbon chain with a phosphate group at c - 6 .
sulfite is an inorganic anion ,  which is the conjugate base of hydrogen sulfite .
a purine nucleobase that consists of purine bearing an oxo substituent at position 6 .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid containing five carbon atoms .
a compound rc ( =o ) h ,  in which a carbonyl group is bonded to one hydrogen atom and to one r group .
a 3' , 5' - cyclic purine nucleotide having having adenine as the nucleobase .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid where the methyl group has been hydroxylated .
a pseudohalide anion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen cyanide .
a carbohydrate that is an acyclic polyol having the general formula hoch2 [ ch ( oh )  ] nch2oh  ( formally derivable from an aldose by reduction of the carbonyl group )  .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
an optically active form of cysteine having l - configuration .
a pyrimidine nucleoside in which cytosine is attached to ribofuranose via a beta - n ( 1 )  - glycosidic bond .
a common and naturally occurring pyrimidine nucleobase in which the pyrimidine ring is substituted with two oxo groups at positions 2 and 4 .
the simplest member of the class toluenes consisting of a benzene core which bears a single methyl substituent .
homocysteine with l configuration .
a glucooligosaccharide derived from glucose monomers linked via alpha - d - 1 , 4 bonds as in maltose .
a purine nucleoside in which hypoxanthine is attached to ribofuranose via a beta - n ( 9 )  - glycosidic bond .
any d - aldose having a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
a a deoxyketohexose comprising l - tagatose with the hydroxy group at position 6 replaced by hydrogen .
a nitrogen oxoanion formed by loss of a proton from nitric acid .
a glucose with d - configuration .
a c21 - steroid that is pregn - 4 - ene substituted by oxo groups at positions 3 and 20 and hydroxy groups at positions 11 ,  17 and 21 .
a bile acid glycine conjugate having cholic acid as the bile acid component .
an organochlorine compound that is dichloro - substituted acetamide containing a nitrobenzene ring ,  an amide bond and two alcohol functions .
a  glycosylglucose disaccharide ,  found most notably in milk ,  that consists of d - galactose and d - glucose fragments bonded through a beta - 1 -  > 4 glycosidic linkage .
the amino acid betaine derived from glycine .
a triol with a structure of propane substituted at positions 1 ,  2 and 3 by hydroxy groups .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of pimelic acid .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
an optically active form of idonate having l - configuration ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a pyrimidine nucleobase that is uracil in which the hydrogen at position 5 is replaced by a methyl group .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine substituted at position 3 by a hydroxy group .
any of a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics produced by fermentation of some micromonospora spp .
an  aromatic amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of 4 - aminobenzoic acid .
the conjugate base of 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid ,  comprising a 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid core with a proton missing to give a charge of  - 1 .
a mononuclear parent hydride consisting of covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a molecular entity that can transfer  (  \ "donate \ " )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
an aminonucleoside antibiotic ,  derived from the streptomyces alboniger bacterium ,  that causes premature chain termination during translation taking place in the ribosome .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of butyric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an acetyl - l - serine where the acetyl group is attached to the side - chain oxygen .
a thioester that results from the formal condensation of the thiol group of coenzyme a with the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid .
sucrose is a disaccharide formed by glucose and fructose units joined by an acetal oxygen bridge from hemiacetal of glucose to the hemiketal of the fructose .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
a butenedioic acid in which the c=c double bond has e geometry .
a dihydroxybenzoic acid that is  benzoic acid substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 2 and 3 .
an optically active form of glutamine having l - configuration .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
a purine nucleoside in which xanthine is attached to ribofuranose via a beta - n ( 9 )  - glycosidic bond .
any six - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldohexose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketohexose )  .
a tertiary amine that is ammonia in which each hydrogen atom is substituted by an methyl group .
a hexahydroxyflavone that is flavone substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 ,  3' ,  4' ,  5 ,  5' and 7 .
a biomacromolecule consisting of large numbers of monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
an alpha - amino acid that is phenylalanine bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 4 on the phenyl ring .
a penicillin in which the substituent at position 6 of the penam ring is a phenylacetamido group .
an aldopentose ,  found in the embryos of most edible plants and used in medicine to test for malabsorption by administration in water to the patient .
a galactosamine phosphate that is d - galactosamine substituted at position 1 by a monophosphate group .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
any nucleoside where the sugar component is d - ribose .
that part of dna or rna that may be involved in pairing .
any form of fucose having l configuration .
a member of the class of imidazoles that is 1h - imidazole substituted at position c - 4 by a 2 - aminoethyl group .
a butenedioic acid in which the double bond has cis -   ( z )  - configuration .
a alpha , beta - unsaturated monocarboxylic acid that is ethene substituted by a carboxy group .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  and therefore consisting entirely of hydrogen atoms and saturated carbon atoms .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of hydrogenphosphate .
a ribosyl or deoxyribosyl derivative of a pyrimidine or purine base in which c - 3 and c - 5 of the ribose ring are engaged in formation of a cyclic mono -  ,  di -  ,  tri -  or tetra - phosphate .
a compound having the structure rc#n ;  thus a c - substituted derivative of hydrocyanic acid ,  hc#n .
a gluconate having d - configuration .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylacetic acid .
a one - carbon compound consisting of a methine group triple bonded to a nitrogen atom
a tautomer of pyrrole that has the double bonds at positions 2 and 4 .
a deoxyaldopentose phosphate in which the deoxyaldopentose is 2 - deoxyribose .
a cephalosporin compound having acetoxymethyl and  [ 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetyl ] amino side groups .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of 3 - phosphoshikimate 1 - carboxyvinyltransferase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .19 )  .
any aminopurine having the amino substituent at the 2 - position .
any compound having 6 - aminopurine  ( adenine )  as part of its structure .
a mitochondrial respiratory - chain inhibitor that interferes with the action of atp synthase .
the l - enantiomer of idonic acid .
an l - amino acid having an n - acetyl substituent .
an n - acyl - amino acid that has acetyl as the acyl group .
any n - acetylhexosamine in which the hexosamine has d - configuration .
any n - acylamino acid having l - configuration .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a nitrogen atom ,  thus creating a c - n bond .
an n - nitroguanidine compound having nitroso and methyl substituents at the n' - position
an organosulfur compound having the structure r2s=o or r2c=s=o  ( r = / = h )  .
compounds with the general formula rnhc ( =o ) ch3 .
an acetyl - amino acid in which the amino acid specified is l - serine .
any amino acid derivative that is the n - acetyl or o - acetyl derivative of an amino acid .
an organic group formed by removing one or more hydroxy groups from an oxoacid that has the general structure rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  .
dicarboxylic acids formed from aldoses by replacement of both terminal groups  ( cho and ch2oh )  by carboxy groups .
any carbohydrate acid formed by oxidising the aldehyde functional group of an aldose to a carboxylic acid functional group .
a univalent group  - cnh2n + 1 derived from an alkane by removal of a hydrogen atom from any carbon atom .
any amine formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by alkyl groups .
highly reactive chemical that introduces alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevents their proper functioning .
a disaccharide derivative that is a disaccharide having one or more substituted or unsubstituted amino groups in place of hydroxy groups at unspecified positions .
any purine having at least one amino substituent .
any  aromatic amine that is benzene carrying at least one amino substituent and its substituted derivatives .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a class of macrocyclic lactams that consist of an aromatic  ( phenyl or naphthyl )  or quinonoid  ( benzoquinone or naphthoquinone )  moiety that is bridged by an aliphatic chain .
a substance that opposes oxidation or inhibits reactions brought about by dioxygen or peroxides .
a substance that destroys or inhibits replication of viruses .
an arsenic oxoanion resulting from the removal of one or more protons from arsenous acid .
a monocarboxylic acid amide in which the amide linkage is bonded directly to an arene ring system .
a ketoaldonate that is the conjugate base of ascorbic acid .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 2 - amino - 2 - oxoethyl group .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - aspartic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( asparagine ,  lysine ,  methionine ,  threonine and isoleucine )  .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of succinic acid bearing a single alpha - amino substituent
any of a group of compounds ,  both naturally occurring and synthetic ,  that induce cell elongation in plant stems  ( from greek alphaupsilonxialphanuomega ,   \ "to grow \ " )  .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any benzoic acid .
any aromatic carboxylic acid that consists of benzene in which at least a single hydrogen has been substituted by a carboxy group .
any amino acid - derived zwitterion  -  such as glycine betaine  ( n , n , n - trimethylammonioacetate )   -  in which the ammonium nitrogen carries three methyl substituents .
a sodium salt of the conjugate of any bile acid with either glycine or taurine .
any  amino acid  in which the parent hydrocarbon chain has one or more alkyl substituents
any gamma - lactone having the lactone moiety derived from 4 - hydroxybutanoic acid .
any ester of carbamic acid or its n - substituted derivatives .
the univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of  - oh from the carboxy group of carbamic acid .
any carbohydrate derivative that exhibits antibiotic activity .
an ec 4 .2 .1 .*  ( hydro - lyases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of carbonic anhydrase  ( ec 4 .2 .1 .1 )  .
a class of beta - lactam antibiotics differing from the penicillins in having a 6 - membered ,  rather than a 5 - membered ,  side ring .
any of the chitobioses acetylated on both amino nitrogens .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
a haloacetate ( 1 -  )  resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of chloroacetic acid .
any organochlorine compound containing a benzene ring which is substituted by one or more chlorines .
an  organophosphate oxoanion that is the dianion of glycerol 1 - phosphate arising from deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a quaternary ammonium ion based on the choline ion and its substituted derivatives thereof .
the part  ( atom or group of atoms )  of a molecular entity in which the electronic transition responsible for a given spectral band is approximately localized .
a low - molecular - weight ,  non - protein organic compound participating in enzymatic reactions as dissociable acceptor or donor of chemical groups or electrons .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a metal sulfate compound having copper ( 2 +  )  as the metal ion .
salts and c - organyl derivatives of hydrogen cyanide ,  hc#n .
a polyol consisting of a cycloalkane containing at least three hydroxy groups ,  each attached to a different ring carbon atom .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of cysteine by a heteroatom .
any c6 deoxy sugar having at least one hydroxy group replaced by hydrogen .
any sugar having a hydroxy group replaced with a hydrogen atom .
glucans produced by the hydrolysis of starch or glycogen .
any polyamine that contains two amino groups .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that is the conjugate base of 2 , 6 - diaminopimelic acid .
the amino dicarboxylic acid that is heptanedioic acid with amino aubstituents at c - 2 and c - 6 .
an azole that is either one of a pair of heterocyclic organic compounds comprising three carbon atoms and two nitrogen atoms arranged in a ring .
a hydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acid carrying two hydroxy groups at unspecified positions .
any member of the class of  hydroxybenzoic acids carrying  two phenolic hydroxy groups on the benzene ring and its derivatives .
a compound that contains two hydroxy groups ,  generally assumed to be ,  but not necessarily ,  alcoholic .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid that is estra - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 )  - triene substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 and 17 .
any primary alcohol based on an ethanol skeleton .
a member of the class of flavonoid with a 2 - aryl - 1 - benzopyran - 4 - one  ( 2 - arylchromen - 4 - one )  skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a substance used to destroy fungal pests .
compounds containing at least one furan ring .
glucocorticoids are a class of steroid hormones that regulate a variety of physiological processes ,  in particular control of the concentration of glucose in blood .
an oligosaccharide comprised of glucose residues .
a hexosamine phosphate having glucosamine as the amino sugar component .
any  hexosamine that is glucose in which at least one of the hydroxy groups has been replaced by an amino group .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - glutamic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( glutamine ,  proline and arginine )  .
any organonitrogen compound derived from the glu - cys - gly tripeptide glutathione .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of glycine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of glycine by a heteroatom .
a glycosyl compound resulting from the attachment of a glycosyl group to a non - acyl group ro -  ,  rs -  ,  rse -  ,  etc .
any disaccharide in which the two monosaccharide components are connected by a glycosidic linkage between their anomeric centres .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
any organonitrogen compound containing a carbamimidamido  ( guanidino )  group .
a substance used to destroy plant pests .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
a heterodetic cyclic peptide is a peptide consisting only of amino - acid residues ,  but in which the linkages forming the ring are not solely peptide bonds ;  one or more is an isopeptide ,  disulfide ,  ester ,  or other bond .
members of the class of hydroxyflavone that is  flavone substituted by 6 hydroxy groups .
any 6 - carbon amino monosaccharide with at least one alcoholic hydroxy group replaced by an amino group .
a uronate obtained via deprotonation of the carboxy group of any hexuronic acid .
originally referring to an endogenous compound that is formed in specialized organ or group of cells and carried to another organ or group of cells ,  in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory function ,  the term is now commonly used to include non - endogenous ,  semi - synthetic and fully synthetic analogues of such compounds .
an imidazolidinone with oxo groups at position 2 and 4 .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
an oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from the hydroxy group of any hydroxamic acid .
a compound ,  rke ( =o ) lnhoh ,  derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh )   ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing  - oh with  - nhoh ,  and derivatives thereof .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
any member of the class of 5beta - cholanic acids carrying at least one hydroxy group at unspecified position .
any carboxylic acid with at least one hydroxy group .
any benzoate derivative carrying a single carboxylate group and at least one hydroxy substituent .
any benzoic acid carrying one or more phenolic hydroxy groups on the benzene ring .
any flavone in which one or more ring hydrogens are replaced by hydroxy groups .
a chlorine oxoacid with formula hocl ;  a weak ,  unstable acid ,  it is the active form of chlorine in water .
a five - membered organic heterocycle containing two nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 ,  or any of its derivatives ;  compounds containing an imidazole skeleton .
an  indol - 3 - yl carboxylic acid in which the carboxylic acid specified is acetic acid .
any indolyl carboxylic acid carrying an indol - 3 - yl or substituted indol - 3 - yl group .
any compound containing an indole skeleton .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
compounds of structure roor' in which r and r' are inorganic groups .
any cyclohexane - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - hexol .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill members of the class insecta .
a role played by a chemical agent which exhibits the capability of occupying space between dna base pairs due to particular properties in size ,  shape and charge .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a compound which can carry specific ions through membranes of cells or organelles .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any  ionophore capable of transportation of iron ions across membranes .
a 2 - amino - 3 - methylpentanoic acid having either  ( 2r , 3r )  -  or  ( 2s , 3s )  - configuration .
any lipid formally derived from isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  ,  the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule .
any compound that has an aldehydic and ketonic group in the same molecule .
oxo carboxylic acids formally derived from aldonic acids by replacement of a secondary choh group by a carbonyl group .
any ketohexose having at least one hydroxy group replaced by hydrogen .
any hexose containing a single ketone group .
any ketone - containing triose .
cyclic amides of amino carboxylic acids ,  having a 1 - azacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or analogues having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of lactic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
any cyclic carboxylic ester containing a 1 - oxacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or an analogue having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isobutyl group .
a diamino acid that is caproic  ( hexanoic )  acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 6 .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members which exhibits antibiotic activity .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members derived from a polyketide .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of malic acid .
a dextrin in which the d - glucose units are linked by alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic bonds .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
a metal - sulfur cluster is a unit comprising two or more metal atoms and bridging sulfur ligand ( s )  .
an organosulfonic ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with the hydroxy group of an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol .
a 1 , 1 - diunsubstituted alkanesulfonate that is the conjugate base of methanesulfonic acid .
a methanesulfonate ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with methanol .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of mevalonic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid comprising valeric acid having two hydroxy groups at the 3 -  and 5 - positions together with a methyl group at the 3 - position .
a family of aziridine - containing natural products isolated from streptomyces caespitosus or streptomyces lavendulae .
a molecule all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
a group of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by ethylene group   (  - ch2 - ch2 -  )  .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
a hydroxybenzoate carrying a single hydroxy substituent at unspecified position .
any hydroxybenzoic acid having a single phenolic hydroxy substituent on the benzene ring .
an agent that increases the frequency of mutations above the normal background level ,  usually by interacting directly with dna and causing it damage ,  including base substitution .
a polycyclic aromatic ketone metabolite of naphthalene .
an endogenous compound that is used to transmit information across the synapse between a neuron and another cell .
any member of the class of  phenols or substituted phenols carrying  at least 1 nitro group .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity that is a nucleoside in which one or more of the sugar hydroxy groups has been converted into a mono -  or poly - phosphate .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of octanoic acid  ( caprylic acid )  ;  believed to block adipogenesis .
a peptide containing a relatively small number of amino acids .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an organooxygen compound with formula ror ,  where r is not hydrogen .
an oxide in which the oxygen atom is bonded to a carbon atom .
an  alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
an organophosphorus compound is formally a compound containing at least one carbon - phosphorus bond ,  but the term is often extended to include esters and thioesters .
a solute used by a cell under water stress to maintain cell volume .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
compounds of structure r2c=noh derived from condensation of aldehydes or ketones with hydroxylamine .
any compound that has an aldehydic or ketonic group as well as a carboxylic acid group in the same molecule .
a quinone in which the two oxo groups of the quinone are located para to each other on the 6 - membered quinonoid ring .
a class of amides formed from pantoic acid and beta - alanine and its derivatives .
a hydroxyflavone substituted by five hydroxy groups .
a five - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldopentose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketopentose )  .
compounds of structure roor' .
the nitrogen oxoanion formed by loss of a proton from peroxynitrous acid .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
any organic aromatic compound with a structure based on a phenylpropane skeleton .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
hp ( =o )  ( oh ) 2   ( phosphonic acid )  and its p - substituted derivatives .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consits of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom .
a chemical ,  natural or artificial ,  that can affect the rate of growth of a plant .
natural and synthetic compounds containing alternating carbonyl and methylene groups  ( 'beta - polyketones' )  ,  biogenetically derived from repeated condensation of acetyl coenzyme a  ( via malonyl coenzyme a )  ,  and usually the compounds derived from them by further condensations ,  etc .
a compound that contains two or more hydroxy groups .
members of the class of phenols that contain 2 or more benzene rings each of which is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any alkali metal salt having potassium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
an alpha - amino acid that is pyrrolidine bearing a carboxy substituent at position 2 .
an aldehyde based on a propanal skeleton and its derivatives .
derivatives of oxoacids rne ( =o ) oh in which the hydroxy group is replaced by an amino group and the oxo group is replaced by =nr .
a tightly bound ,  specific nonpolypeptide unit in a protein determining and involved in its biological activity .
any nucleotide that has a purine nucleobase .
any ribonucleotide that has a purine nucleobase .
a class of imidazopyrimidines that consists of purine and its substituted derivatives .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a pyridine skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
an azole that includes only one n atom and no other heteroatom as a part of the aromatic skeleton .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from pyruvate  ( i .e .
a nitrogen molecular entity that is electronically neutral but which contains a quaternary nitrogen .
any aromatic carboxylic acid that contains a quinoline moiety that is substituted by one carboxy substituent .
a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds each of which contains a benzene ring ortho fused to carbons 2 and 3 of a pyridine ring .
a molecular entity possessing an unpaired electron .
molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
a deoxymannose sugar that is the 6 - deoxy derivative of hexose .
any fatty acid containing no carbon to carbon multiple bonds .
salts and esters of selenous acid .
a monocarboxylic acid derived from any dicarboxylic acid that has a retained name by the formal reduction of one of the carboxy groups to a formyl group .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of serine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of serine by a heteroatom .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from 3 - phosphoglycerate  ( i .e .
an aliphatic monocarboxylic acid with a chain length of less than c6 .
any of the n - acylneuraminic acids and their esters and other derivatives of the alcoholic hydroxy groups .
any of low - molecular - mass iron ( iii )  - chelating compounds produced by microorganisms for the purpose of the transport and sequestration of iron .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
a penicillin in which the substituent at position 6 of the penam ring is a 2 - amino - 2 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) acetamido group .
any steroid that acts as hormone .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of succinic acid .
salts and esters of sulfuric acid
a sulfur oxoacid that consits of two oxo and two hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central sulfur atom .
any of a group of astringent polyphenolic vegetable principles or compounds ,  chiefly complex glucosides of catechol and pyrogallol .
any isoprenoid that is a natural product or related compound formally derived from isoprene units .
a subclass of polyketides having an octahydrotetracene - 2 - carboxamide skeleton ,  substituted with many hydroxy and other groups .
any oxacycle having an oxolane  ( tetrahydrofuran )  skeleton .
an ester in which one or both oxygens of an ester group have been replaced by divalent sulfur .
an organic tricyclic compound in which at least one of the rings of the tricyclic skeleton contains one or more heteroatoms .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 1 - hydroxyethyl group .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of threonine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of threonine by a heteroatom .
any member of the class of benzenes that is a substituted benzene in which the substituents include one  ( and only one )  methyl group .
poisonous substance produced by a biological organism such as a microbe ,  animal or plant .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
a disaccharide formed by a  ( 1 <  -  > 1 )  - glycosidic bond between two units of d - glucose .
an oxoacid containing three carboxy groups .
a chemical compound containing three hydroxy groups .
a monosaccharide containing three carbon atoms ,  which is important in respiration .
aralkylamino compounds which contain a tyramine skeleton .
a univalent carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a carbohydrate acid formally derived by oxidation to a carboxy group of the terminal  - ch2oh group of any aldose or ketose .
any metabolite that is found naturally as a component of a volatile oil .
a neutral compound having formal unit electrical charges of opposite sign on non - adjacent atoms .
an alkanesulfonic acid in which the alkyl group directly linked to the sulfo functionality is methyl .
an amino cyclitol that is scyllo - inositol in which the hydroxy groups at positions 1 and 3 are replaced by guanidino groups .
an indoledione that is the 2 , 3 - diketo derivative of indole .
any aldehyde having an oxo substituent at the 2 - position .
a fatty acid anion 10:0 that is the conjugate base of decanoic acid .
a phosphonic acid resulting from the formal oxidative coupling of the methyl group of methylphosphonic acid with the amino group of glycine .
a surfactant  ( or a mixture containing one or more surfactants )  having cleaning properties in dilute solutions .
a chlorocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid carrying a 2 - chloro substituent .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine bearing an indol - 3 - yl substituent at position 3 .
a diamminedichloroplatinum compound in which the two ammine ligands and two chloro ligands are oriented in a cis planar configuration around the central platinum ion .
a broad - spectrum polyketide antibiotic produced by the streptomyces genus of actinobacteria .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic that contains a beta - lactam ring .
an amino cyclitol consisting of scyllo - inositol with the hydroxy groups at positions 1 and 3 replaced by unsubstituted amino groups .
an aromatic amino acid that is alanine in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a phenyl group .
a glycosylglucose formed by an alpha -  ( 1 -  > 6 )  - linkage between d - galactose and d - glucose .
a member of the class of rifamycins that is a a semisynthetic antibiotic derived from amycolatopsis rifamycinica  ( previously known as amycolatopsis mediterranei and streptomyces mediterranei ) 
chemical element  ( nickel group element atom )  with atomic number 28 .
an optically active form of asparagine having d - configuration .
a complex between iron ( iii )  and three hydroxamic acid groups ,  used for iron transport .
an aldohexose that is the c - 4 epimer of glucose .
a 2 - carbon sulfoxide in which the sulfur atom has two methyl substituents .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a carbamoyl substituent at position 4 .
the d - stereoisomer of galactosamine .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - lactic acid .
a coumarin - derived antibiotic obtained from streptomyces niveus .
a one - carbon compound that is ammonia in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a carboxy group .
a monocarboxylic acid that is propionic acid substituted at position 3 by a phenyl group .
the n , n' - diacetylated derivative of chitobiose ,  but with no stereodesignation for the anomeric carbon atom .
a ketohexose that is an isomer of glucose .
any hydroxyflavone in which is the ring hydrogen at position 3 of the heterocyclic ring is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a bile acid that is 5beta - cholan - 24 - oic acid substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 and 12 respectively .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid that is heptane in which one of the hydrogens of a terminal methyl group has been replaced by a carboxy group .
the conjugate base of a fatty acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of the corresponding fatty acid .
a member of the class of 1 , 4 - naphthoquinones that is 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone which is substituted at position 2 by a methyl group .
a primary alcohol that is butane in which a hydrogen of one of the methyl groups is substituted by a hydroxy group .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
any sugar having one or more alcoholic hydroxy groups replaced by substituted or unsubstituted amino groups .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid .
a penicillin in which the substituent at position 6 of the penam ring is a 2 - amino - 2 - phenylacetamido group .
a purine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside that is inosine in which the hydroxy group at position 2' is replaced by a hydrogen .
an alpha - amino acid that is glycine in which the alpha - is substituted by a 3 - guanidinopropyl group .
a divalent metal cation in which the metal is manganese .
an ion of copper carrying a double positive charge .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
the l - enantiomer of ascorbic acid and conjugate acid of l - ascorbate .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from potassium .
a colourless ,  volatile ,  poisonous inorganic compound with the formula hnco ;  the simplest stable chemical compound that contains carbon ,  hydrogen ,  nitrogen ,  and oxygen ,  the four most commonly - found elements in organic chemistry and biology .
an organosulfur compound in which a thiol group ,   - sh ,  is attached to a carbon atom of any aliphatic or aromatic moiety .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by deprotonation of phosphorous acid .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of a proton from two of the hydroxy groups of phosphorous acid .
an organic sodium salt that is the disodium salt of nitroprusside .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
a carboxamide derived from a monocarboxylic acid .
a semisynthetic penicillin antibiotic used in treating infections caused by pseudomonas aeruginosa ,  escherichia coli ,  and haemophilus influenzae .
a n - acyl homoserine lactone that is the monocarboxylic acid amide resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 3 - oxohexanoic acid with the amino group of homoserine lactone .
an inoganic sodium salt with formula with formula naaso2 .
a cholanic acid conjugate anion that is the conjugate base of glycocholic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a bile acid anion that is the conjugate base of cholic acid .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is acetate where the methyl group has been hydroxylated .
a c4 - dicarboxylate that is the e - isomer of but - 2 - enedioate ( 2 -  ) 
a hexitol produced by a variety of organisms including bacteria ,  fungi ,  lichens and plants .
a c4 - dicarboxylate that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of aspartic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion resulting from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxy groups of succinic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of acetic acid .
a class of quaternary ammonium chloride salts in which the nitrogen is substituted by a benzyl group ,  two methyl groups and an even - numbered alkyl chain .
a trivalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of all three protons from antimonous acid .
an alkane - alpha , omega - diamine in which the alkane is ethane .
a bipyridine in which the two pyridine moieties are linked by a bond between positions c - 2 and c - 2' .
an alkane that is butane substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
an alkane that is propane substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
an iron - sulfur cluster is a unit comprising two or more iron atoms and bridging sulfur ligands .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is pentane with two carboxylic acid groups at positions c - 1 and c - 5 .
dicarboxylate anion of d - glucaric acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a glucaric acid anion that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of glucaric acid .
a nucleoside triphosphate ( 4 -  )  obtained by global deprotonation of the triphosphate oh groups of atp ;  major species present at ph 7 .3 .
the l - enantiomer of homoserine lactone .
the d - enantiomer of homoserine lactone .
a  diether that is ethylene glycol in which the hydrogens of the hydroxy groups have been replaced by 2 -  [ bis ( carboxymethyl ) amino ] ethyl group respectively .
a monocarboxylic acid that is toluene in which one of the hydrogens of the methyl group has been replaced by a carboxy group .
a compound comprising a benzene ring core carrying a carboxylic acid substituent .
the simplest carboxylic acid ,  containing a single carbon .
an aminobenzoic acid in which the amino group is para to the carboxy group .
an aminobenzoic acid that is benzoic acid having a single amino substituent located at position 2 .
a monohydroxybenzoate that is the conjugate base of salicylic acid .
a monohydroxybenzoic acid that is benzoic acid carrying a hydroxy substituent at c - 4 of the benzene ring .
a short - chain saturated fatty acid comprising ethane attached to the carbon of a carboxy group .
a tricarboxylic acid that is propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - tricarboxylic acid bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 2 .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid that is butane in which one of the terminal methyl groups has been oxidised to a carboxy group .
a c6 ,  straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the carboxy groups of succinic acid .
a c4 - dicarboxylate that is the z - isomer of but - 2 - enedioate ( 2 -  ) 
an optically active form of malic acid having  ( r )  - configuration .
an optically active form of malic acid having  ( s )  - configuration .
a c10 ,  straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
the l - enantiomer of arabinose .
a hexaric acid resulting from formal oxidative ring cleavage of galactose .
an indol - 3 - yl carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of indole - 3 - acetic acid .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
a tartaric acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - carboxy - 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropanoate .
any member of a group of steroid carboxylic acids occuring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
a  bipyridine in which the two pyridine moieties are linked by a bond between positions c - 4 and c - 4' .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of valeric acid ;  present in ester form as component of many steroid - based pharmaceuticals .
an inorganic chloride having ammonium as the counterion .
the simplest member of the class of salicylamides derived from salicylic acid .
the d - enantiomer of glyceric acid .
the l - enantiomer of alaninate .
the l - enantiomer of alaninium .
the d - enantiomer of alaninate .
an alaninium that is the conjugate acid of d - alanine .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of alanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of alanine .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinium .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinium .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of cysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an aromatic amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylalanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of phenylalanine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of glycine ,  arising from protonation of the amino .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glycine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of lysine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of lysine ,  having two cationic amino groups and an anionic carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation obtained by protonation of both amino groups of lysine .
a magnesium salt having sulfate as the counterion .
an acene that consists of four ortho - fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
an alkane - alpha , omega - diammonium ( 2 +  )  that is the dication of putrescine  ( 1 , 4 - butanediamine )  arising from protonation of both primary amino groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of leucine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of leucine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
the l - enantiomer of  methioninate .
the l - enantiomer of methioninium .
the d - enantiomer of methioninate .
the d - enantiomer of methioninium .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of methionine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate acid of methionine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an optically active form of asparaginate having l - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of asparagine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an optically active form of glutaminate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of glutaminium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of glutaminate having d - configuration .
an optically active form of glutaminium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of glutamine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - arginine ;  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
the l - enantiomer of argininium ( 1 +  )  .
the d - enantiomer of argininium ( 1 +  )  .
the l - enantiomer of tryptophanate .
the l - enantiomer of tryptophanium .
the d - enantiomer of tryptophanate .
the d - enantiomer of tryptophanium .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of tryptophan ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of tryptophan ,  arising from protonation of the alpha - amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of tyrosine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of tyrosine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of tyramine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid that is the 2 - keto derivative of propionic acid .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - threonine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
the l - enantiomer of threoninium .
the d - enantiomer of threoninate .
the d - enantiomer of threoninium .
a serinate that is the conjugate base of l - serine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a serinium that is the conjugate acid of l - serine ,  obtained by protonation of the amino group .
the d - enantiomer of serinate .
the d - enantiomer of serinium .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of serine .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of serine .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of proline ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of proline ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an alkyl group that is the univalent group derived from methane by removal of a hydrogen atom .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by a hydrocarbyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a dinitrile that is methane subtituted by two cyano groups .
a cyanide salt containing equal numbers of potassium cations and cyanide anions .
a gluconic acid having d - configuration .
an organic substance that is distributed in foodstuffs ,  is distinct from the main organic components of food  ( protein ,  carbohydrate and fat )  and is needed for the normal nutrition of the organism in question .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of mycobacterium tuberculosis and is used in the treatment of tuberculosis .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
a univalent group formed by removing a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a derivative of two oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which two acyl groups are attached to the amino or substituted amino group .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of bacteria .
a nutrient is a chemical element needed by all life forms .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
a substance used to destroy rodent pests .
an energy - rich substance that can be transformed with release of usable energy .
a substance administered to aid diagnosis of a disease .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
an alkaline earth molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkaline earth metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a serine zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - serine .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any monosaccharide containing an alcoholic hydroxy group esterified with phosphoric acid .
arylmethyl groups and derivatives formed by substitution: arcr2 -  .
a pnictogen oxoacid which contains phosphorus and oxygen ,  at least one hydrogen atom bound to oxygen ,  and forms an ion by the loss of one or more protons .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by deprotonation of one of the two oh groups in phosphonic acid .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
a trionic acid that consists of propionic acid substituted at positions 2 and 3 by hydroxy groups .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of a proton from h2teo3
the sulfur oxoanion formed by deprotonation of sulfonic acid .
an organic derivative of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of the sufonate group ( s )  of any organosulfonic acid .
an amino - acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any alpha - amino acid .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
any compound containing an o - diphenol component .
4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) pyrocatechol  [ 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) benzene - 1 , 2 - diol ]  and derivatives formed by substitution .
a catecholamine in which the aminoethyl side - chain is hydroxy - substituted at c - 1 and methylated on nitrogen .
a catecholamine in which c - 1 of the aminoethyl side - chain is hydroxy - substituted .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
any carboxylic acid having a sulfur substituent .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
a polycyclic compound in which two rings have two ,  and only two ,  atoms in common .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
any monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a mancude monocyclic hydrocarbon without side chains of the general formula cnhn  ( n is an even number )  or cnhn + 1  ( n is an odd number )  .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an f - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
an amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position alpha to the carboxy group .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position beta to the carboxy group .
a non - proteinogenic amino - acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position gamma to the carboxy group .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
a cluster is a number of metal centres grouped close together which can have direct metal bonding interactions or interactions through a bridging ligand ,  but are not necessarily held together by these interactions .
any aldonic acid formed by oxidising the aldehyde group of an aldohexose to a carboxylic acid group .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
alkenols ;  the term refers specifically to vinylic alcohols ,  which have the structure hocr'=cr2 .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
an n - glycosyl compound that has both a nucleobase ,  normally adenine ,  guanine ,  xanthine ,  thymine ,  cytosine or uracil ,  and either a ribose or deoxyribose as functional parents .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
any carboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is directly bonded to an aromatic ring .
an amino compound in which the amino group is linked directly to an aromatic system .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of glyceric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
a pentose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
a hexose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
any aldopentose where the open - chain form has all the hydroxy groups on the same side in the fischer projection .
any deoxygalactose that is deoxygenated at the 6 - position .
a quaternary ammonium ion that is the the conjugate acid of carnitine .
an aldehyde that is furan with the hydrogen at position 2 substituted by a formyl group .
a compound of nickel and chloride in which the ratio of nickel  ( in the  + 2 oxidation state )  to chloride is 1:2 .
an organic cation that consists of 4 , 4' - bipyridine bearing two n - methyl substituents loctated at the 1 -  and 1' - positions .
a pyridinium - substituted semi - synthetic ,  broad - spectrum ,  cephalosporin antibiotic .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
a metal sulfate compound having zinc ( 2 +  )  as the counterion .
an oxo monocarboxylic acid anion in which the oxo group is located at the 2 - position .
a hydrocarbon of biological origin having carbon skeleton formally derived from isoprene  [ ch2=c ( ch3 ) ch=ch2 ]  .
a c30 terpene .
a substance which lowers the surface tension of the medium in which it is dissolved ,  and / or the interfacial tension with other phases ,  and ,  accordingly ,  is positively adsorbed at the liquid / vapour and / or at other interfaces .
a substance which is structurally similar to a metabolite but which competes with it or replaces it ,  and so prevents or reduces its normal utilization .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a substance that increases the rate of a reaction without modifying the overall standard gibbs energy change in the reaction .
a small molecule which increases  ( activator )  or decreases  ( inhibitor )  the activity of an  ( allosteric )  enzyme by binding to the enzyme at the regulatory site  ( which is different from the substrate - binding catalytic site )  .
any substance or mixture of substances that ,  in solution  ( typically aqueous )  ,  resists change in ph upon addition of small amounts of acid or base .
a fuel such as coal ,  oil and natural gas which has formed over many years through the decomposition of deposited vegetation which was under extreme pressure of an overburden of earth .
the zwitterionic form of an amino acid having a negatively charged carboxyl group and a positively charged amino group .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amnio group of serine .
a serine zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of d - serine .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually organyl )  groups .
derivatives of ammonium compounds ,   ( nh4 (  +  )  ) y (  -  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually organyl )  groups .
ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  and derivatives formed by substitution by univalent groups .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and a s atom bound to a carbon atom ,  thus creating a c - s bond .
compounds  ( nh4 (  +  )  ) y (  -  )  and derivatives ,  in which one or more of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent groups .
neutral molecules having charge - separated forms with an onium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
neutral molecules having charge - separated forms with an sulfonium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
any neutral molecule having charge - separated forms with a quaternary ammonium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
cations of structure r2c=n (  +  ) r2 .
a polyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
the alpha - stereoisomer of 17 - hydroxy steroid .
any 11 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group at position 11 has beta -  configuration .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an imide in which the two acyl substituents on nitrogen are carboacyl groups .
an amide of a sulfonic acid rs ( =o ) 2nr'2 .
compounds having the structure rc ( =nr ) nr2 .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
parent monosaccharides are polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h or polyhydroxy ketones h -  [ choh ] n - c ( =o )  [ choh ] m - h with three or more carbon atoms .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of galactaric acid .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of aspartic acid .
a 3 - carboxy - 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropanoate that is the conjugate base of tartaric acid .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a primary diamine is a compound derived from a hydrocarbon by replacing two hydrogen atoms by amino groups .
a primary diamine that is ethane or a higher alkane in which a hydrogen of each of the terminal methyl groups has been replaced by an amino group .
a ketoaldonate that is the conjugate base of n - acetylneuraminic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
a substance used to treat or prevent parasitic infections .
substance intended to kill parasitic worms  ( helminths )  .
a cadmium coordination entity in which cadmium ( 2 +  )  and cl (  -  )  ions are present in the ratio 2:1 .
antidepressants are mood - stimulating drugs used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
a substance that reduces or suppresses inflammation .
an agent capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
a drug that has principally analgesic ,  antipyretic and anti - inflammatory actions .
a loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system .
an agent that causes an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes .
a drug which lowers the blood glucose level .
a compound or agent that combines with cyclooxygenases  ( ec 1 .14 .99 .1 )  and thereby prevents its substrate - enzyme combination with arachidonic acid and the formation of icosanoids ,  prostaglandins ,  and thromboxanes .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
a five - membered monocyclic heteroarene comprising one nh and four ch units which forms the parent compound of the pyrrole group of compounds .
that one of the three tautomers of pyrrole which has the double bonds at positions 1 and 4 .
that one of the three tautomers of pyrrole which has the double bonds at positions 1 and 3 .
a monocyclic heteroarene with a structure consisting of a 5 - membered ring containing four carbons and one oxygen ,  with formula c4h4o .
any molecular entity that consists of a ring having  ( formally )  the maximum number of noncumulative double bonds .
either of two isomeric forms comprising a benzene ring fused to a pyrrole ring .
a heterobicyclic aromatic organic compound comprising a pyrimidine ring fused to an imidazole ring ;  the parent compound of the purines .
the 1h - tautomer of purine .
the 3h - tautomer of purine .
the 9h - tautomer of purine .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
a food additive that is used to added improve the taste or odour of a food .
any ether in which the oxygen is attached to at least one aryl substituent .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a four - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
any drug used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular hypertension regardless of pharmacological mechanism .
any carboxylic acid containing two carboxy groups .
any dicarboxylic acid anion that is a monoanion obtained by the deprotonation of only one of the carboxy groups of the dicarboxylic acid .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
a xenobiotic  ( greek ,  xenos  \ "foreign \ " ;  bios  \ "life \ " )  is a compound that is foreign to a living organism .
a compound having a nitro group ,   - no2  ( free valence on nitrogen )  ,  which may be attached to carbon ,  nitrogen  ( as in nitramines )  ,  or oxygen  ( as in nitrates )  ,  among other elements  ( in the absence of specification ,  c - nitro compounds are usually implied )  .
a nitro compound having the nitro group  (  - no2 )  attached to a carbon atom .
a central nervous system depressant used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety .
an  antimicrobial agent that destroys fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce .
a quinolinemonocarboxylic acid that is 1 , 4 - dihydroquinoline - 3 - carboxylic acid substituted by an oxo group at position 4 ,  a fluoro group at position 6 ,  a cyclopropyl group at position 1 and a 4 - ethylpiperazin - 1 - yl group at position 7 .
an oxoacid containing four carboxy groups .
any anion of a tricarboxylic acid  formed by deprotonation of at least one carboxy group .
a carboxylic acid anion formed when the carboxy group of a monocarboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
an azole based on a five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton containing one n and one o atom .
compounds having the nitroso group ,   - no ,  attached to carbon ,  or to another element ,  most commonly nitrogen or oxygen .
a tricarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of citric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of one of the three carboxy groups .
a tricarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of two of the three carboxy groups of citric acid .
a substance that suppresses mycobacterium leprae ,  ameliorates the clinical manifestations of leprosy ,  and / or reduces the incidence and severity of leprous reactions .
any antimicrobial drug which is used to treat or prevent protozoal infections .
a drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis .
a compound or agent that combines with lipoxygenase and thereby prevents its substrate - enzyme combination with arachidonic acid and the formation of the icosanoid products hydroxyicosatetraenoic acid and various leukotrienes .
any monocarboxylic acid which also contains a separate  ( alcoholic or phenolic )  hydroxy substituent .
any monocarboxylic acid having at least one additional oxo functional group .
the saturated hydrides of tervalent phosphorus having the general formula pnhn + 2 .
the simplest of the diphosphanes ,  consisting of two covelently linked phosphorus atoms each carrying two hydrogens .
phosphane  ( ph3 )  and compounds derived from it by substituting one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups: rph2 ,  r2ph ,  r3p  ( r = / = h )  are called primary ,  secondary and tertiary phosphines ,  respectively .
a compound derived from phosphane by substituting one hydrogen atom by a hydrocarbyl group .
any carboxylic acid anion containing at least one oxo group .
any monocarboxylic acid having a 2 - oxo substituent .
a substance used for its pharmacological action on any aspect of neurotransmitter systems .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that has a hydroxy group beta to the carboxy group .
any  hydroxy monocarboxylic acid carrying at least two hydroxy groups .
an oxo monocarboxylic acid anion having the oxo group located at the 3 - position  ( r = h or organyl group )  .
any amino acid carrying two amino groups .
a polycyclic compound in which two rings have two or more atoms in common .
natural and synthetic antibiotics containing the 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 .2 .0 ] heptan - 7 - one structure ,  generally assumed to have the 5r configuration unless otherwise specified .
a drug used to treat or prevent microbial infections .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of virus diseases .
a drug used to treat or prevent bacterial infections .
any monocarboxylic acid anion carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
a hydroxybenzoate that is the  conjugate base of dihydroxybenzoic acid .
compounds having a fully conjugated cyclic dione structure ,  such as that of benzoquinones ,  derived from aromatic compounds by conversion of an even number of  - ch= groups into  - c ( =o )  -  groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds  ( polycyclic and heterocyclic analogues are included )  .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by the deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of pimelic acid .
a glycosylglucose consisting of galactose and glucose units linked through a 1 - 6 glycosidic linkage .
a compound in which two monosaccharides are joined by a glycosidic bond .
conjugate base of chenodeoxycholic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a steroid acid that consists of cholane having a carboxy group in place of the methyl group at position 24 .
members of the class of cholanic acids based on a 5beta - cholane skeleton .
a glycine or taurine amide of a bile acid .
a n - acylglycinate that is the conjugate base of glycochenodeoxycholic acid .
amide of a bile acid with glycine .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of molybdic acid where one of the two oh groups has been deprotonated .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from molybdic acid
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of tungstic acid where one of the two oh groups has been deprotonated .
a bile acid glycine conjugate having 3alpha , 7alpha - dihydroxy - 5beta - cholan - 24 - oyl as the bile acid component .
a salt of a bile acid .
any member of a group of drugs that reversibly inhibit the propagation of signals along nerves .
a drug used to treat or prevent infections caused by protozoal organisms belonging to the suborder trypanosomatida .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
an azaarene that is the 9 - aza derivative of phenanthrene .
a coordination entity in which the central atom to which the ligands are attached comes from groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  or 18 of the periodic table .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
any terpenoid derived from a triterpene .
any one of eight organic heterobicyclic compounds that have a naphthalene skeleton in which two of the carbons are replaced by nitrogens .
a naphthyridine in which the nitrogens are situated at positions 1 and 8 .
the conjugate base of glyoxylic acid .
an organochlorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chlorine bond .
a compound containing at least one carbon - halogen bond .
a carboxylic acid containing at least one chloro group .
any of a class of steroid hormones that are produced in the adrenal cortex .
a salt formally resulting from the reaction of hydrochloric acid with an organic base .
o - organyl oximes r2c=nor'  ( r' = / = h )  .
two or more cyclic systems  ( single rings or fused systems )  which are directly joined to each other by double or single bonds are named ring assemblies when the number of such direct ring junctions is one less than the number of cyclic systems involved .
any hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 3 .
a hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 17 .
a radical that carries an electric charge .
an oxo steroid carrying an oxo group at position 20 .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
a nucleotide is a nucleoside phosphate resulting from the condensation of the 3 or 5 hydroxy group of a nucleoside with phosphoric acid .
an organofluorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - fluorine bond .
a hydrogen butenedioate obtained by deprotonation of one of the carboxy groups of fumaric acid .
a hydrogen butenedioate that is the  conjugate base of maleic acid .
a polysaccharide composed of glucose residues .
glycans composed of a single type of monosaccharide residue .
a polyol that contains 6 hydroxy groups .
a substance administered to enhance contrast in images of the inside of the body obtained using x - rays ,  gamma - rays ,  sound waves ,  radio waves  ( mri )  ,  or radioactive particles in order to diagnose disease .
an ec 2 .7 .7 .*  ( nucleotidyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of rna polymerase  ( ec 2 .7 .7 .6 )  .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
a nucleoside triphosphate ( 4 -  )  obtained by global deprotonation of the triphosphate oh groups of ctp ;  major species present at ph 7 .3 .
a nucleoside triphosphate ( 4 -  )  obtained by global deprotonation of the triphosphate oh groups of gtp ;  major species present at ph 7 .3 .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
a lactone having a five - membered lactone ring .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
a pentacyclic triterpenoid that is olean - 12 - en - 28 - oic acid substituted by a beta - hydroxy group at position 3 .
an aldohexose that is the c - 2 epimer of glucose .
an aldohexose that is the c - 3 epimer of glucose .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protein kinases .
an ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cholinesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .8 )  .
a penam that consists of 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 .2 .0 ] heptane bearing a carboxy group at position 2 and having  ( 2s , 5r )  - configuration .
a straight chain alkane composed of 4 carbon atoms .
a carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of at least one oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a plant growth regulator that modulates the formation of stems ,  leaves and flowers ,  as well as the development and ripening of fruit .
any coumarin carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
a dye derived by condensation of phthalic anhydride with resorcinol  ( and derivatives )  or m - aminophenol  ( and derivatives )  .
h1 - receptor antagonists are the drugs that selectively bind to but do not activate histamine h1 receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of endogenous histamine .
histamine antagonists are the drugs that bind to but do not activate histamine receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of histamine or histamine agonists .
drugs used for their actions on histaminergic systems .
a drug used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
cyclic hemiacetals formed by intramolecular addition of a hydroxy group to an aldehydic or ketonic carbonyl group .
a ligand with two or more separate binding sites that can bind to a single metallic central atom ,  forming a chelate .
one of a class of drugs that acts by selective inhibition of calcium influx through cell membranes or on the release and binding of calcium in intracellular pools .
any of a class of heterocyclic amines having a saturated five - membered ring .
an alpha - amino acid that is butanoic acid substituted by an amino group at position 2 and a hydroxy group at position 3 .
a branched chain amino acid that consists of 3 - methylpentanoic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 .
the l - enantiomer of ascorbate and conjugate base of l - ascorbic acid ,  arising from selective deprotonation of the 3 - hydroxy group .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
any drug used for its actions on cholinergic systems .
a pyrimidine carrying one or more oxo substituents .
a member of the class of  pyrimidines that is pyrimidine substituted by at least one amino group and its derivatives .
an ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of enzyme acetylcholinesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .7 )  ,  which helps breaking down of acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid .
an ec 1 .9 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cytochrome c oxidase  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .1 )  .
compounds having the structure r2c=nnr2 ,  formally derived from aldehydes or ketones by replacing =o by =nnh2  ( or substituted analogues )  .
an ec 1 .4 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh2 group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of monoamine oxidase  ( ec 1 .4 .3 .4 )  .
the parent structure of the diazines .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
any dianion containing at least one carboxy group .
a trianion containing at least one carboxy group .
any polyamine that contained three amino groups .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the monoanion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group attached to the quinoline skeleton
a compound having the nitro group  (  - no2 )  attached to a nitrogen atom .
any compound containing morpholine as part of its structure .
a membrane transport modulator that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
any alkylbenzene that is benzene substituted with one or more methyl groups .
a  monocyclic arene that is benzene substituted with one or more alkyl groups .
any member of a collection of zwitterionic buffer substances selected or devised for suitability in experimental biological systems according to a number of predetermined criteria .
an oxygen molecular entity that acts as an excellent buffer for many biological systems at near - neutral ph .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity that is an electron - pair acceptor and therefore able to form a covalent bond with an electron - pair donor  ( lewis base )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
an n - nitro compound that is guanidine in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a nitro group .
any organic heteropolycyclic compound based on a skeleton consisting of a pyran ring fused with two benzene rings .
any chemical substance that inhibits the life - cycle of an organism .
members of the class of  nitrophenol carrying two nitro substituents .
any saturated fatty acid lacking a side - chain .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
any azaalkane in which two or more carbons in the chain are replaced by nitrogen .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of phosphoric acid in which one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
an organic anion that is a borate diester derived from a furanose and acts a universal signal molecule mediating intra -  and interspecies communication among bacteria .
an organic cation that is the conjugate acid of amp obtained by selective protonation at position n1 on the purine moiety .
a quaternary ammonium ion in which the substituents on nitrogen are methyl  ( three )  and carboxymethyl .
a straight - chain alkane with 10 carbon atoms .
a hexose that has d - configuration at position 5 .
a dinitrophenol having the nitro groups at the 2 -  and 4 - positions .
an optically active form of lactic acid having  ( r )  - configuration .
an optically active form of lactic acid having  ( s )  - configuration .
an alkane comprising of two carbon atoms .
the fluorescent compound widely used in experimental cell biology and biochemistry to reveal double - stranded dna and rna .
an aminocarboxamidine ,  the parent compound of the guanidines .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of dihydrogenphosphate .
a primary aliphatic amine that is butane substituted by an amino group at position 1 .
a nucleotide in which the ribose moiety has one or more of its hydroxy groups substituted by hydrogen .
a member of the class of ureas that is urea in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a member of the class of  maleimides that is the n - ethyl derivative of maleimide .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of a single pentavalent phosphorus covalently bound via single bonds to a single hydrogen and two hydroxy groups and via a double bond to an oxygen .
a trivalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of all three protons from phosphorous acid .
a sulfonamide in which the sulfamoyl functional group is attached to aniline at the 4 - position .
an n - acetyl - l - amino acid in which the amino acid specified is l - serine .
a nucleoside 5' - monophosphate ( 2 -  )  that results from the removal of two protons from the phosphate group of amp .
a nucleoside 5' - diphosphate ( 3 -  )  arising from deprotonation of all three diphosphate oh groups of adenosine 5' - diphosphate  ( adp )  ;  major species present at ph 7 .3 .
a nucleoside triphosphate ( 4 -  )  obtained by global deprotonation of the triphosphate oh groups of utp ;  major species present at ph 7 .3 .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from tungstic acid .
an alkyl alcohol that is propan - 1 - ol substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
any ether that contains more than one ether linkage .
a polyether in which the number of ether linkages is 2 .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
a compound consisting of a peptide with attached lipid .
a ribose in which the chiral carbon atom furthest away from the aldehyde group  ( c4' )  has the same configuration as in l - glyceraldehyde .
a cyclic ribose having a 5 - membered tetrahydrofuran ring ;  the predominant  ( c3' - endo )  form of the two cyclic structures  ( the other is the  \ "c2' - endo \ " form ,  having a 6 - membered ring )  adopted by ribose in aqueous solution .
an ribofuranose having l - configuration .
a ribofuranose having d - configuration .
any oxolane having an oxo -  substituent at any position on the tetrahydrofuran ring .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and bromine atoms .
the l - enantiomer of glucaric acid .
any carboxylic ester where the carboxylic acid component is acetic acid .
any oxo steroid where an oxo substituent is located at position 3 .
anything used in a scientific experiment to indicate the presence of a substance or quality ,  change in a body ,  etc .
a chemical compound that can be excited by light of a specific wavelength and subsequently transfer energy to a chosen reactant .
a phospho sugar that is formally obtained from a hexose .
any steroid substituted by at least one carboxy group .
organic derivatives of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon of an alkyl group .
a 3 - oxo steroid conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
any member of the 'superclass' flavonoids whose skeleton is based on 1 - benzopyran with an aryl substituent at position 2 .
any molecule that contains three amino - acid residues connected by peptide linkages .
a compound ,  usually an anti - bacterial agent or a toxin ,  which inhibits the synthesis of a protein .
a nitrogen oxoacid of formula hno3 in which the nitrogen atom is bonded to a hydroxy group and by equivalent bonds to the remaining two oxygen atoms .
a substance used locally on humans and other animals to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity  ( cf .
an antimicrobial agent that is applied to non - living objects to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
a solvent with a comparatively high relative permittivity  ( or dielectric constant )  ,  greater than ca .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing =o by =nr ;  thus tautomers of amides .
a carboximidic acid that is the imidic acid tautomer of urea ,  h2nc ( =nh ) oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
an agent and endogenous substances that antagonize or inhibit the development of new blood vessels .
esters or salts of methanesulfonic acid .
a role played by a substance that can react readily with ,  and thereby eliminate ,  radicals .
substance which binds to cell receptors normally responding to naturally occurring substances and which produces a response of its own .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
salts of selenous acid .
an inorganic sodium salt composed of sodium and selenite ions in a 2:1 ratio .
any drug that binds to but does not activate cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains a n atom and one s atom .
any of several wide - spectrum macrolide antibiotics obtained from actinomycete saccharopolyspora erythraea  ( formerly known as streptomyces erythraeus )  .
a tartaric acid anion that is the conjugate base of 2 , 3 - dihydroxybutanedioic acid .
a hydrochloride obtained by combining thiamine chloride with one molar equivalent of hydrochloric acid .
a drug used to treat asthma .
one of various classes of drugs with different action mechanisms used to treat or ameliorate peptic ulcer or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract .
a chemical substance that prevents or reduces the probability of conception .
a cyclic purine dinucleotide that is the 3' , 5' - cyclic dimer of mp .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion that is the trianion of 2' - deoxyadenosine 5' - triphosphate ,  arising from deprotonation of three of the four triphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an iron - sulfur cluster containing two iron atoms and two sulfur atoms .
an ion of nickel carrying a double positive charge .
a compound of zinc and chloride ions in the ratio 1:2 .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a member of the class of n - nitrosoureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by methyl and nitroso groups .
an agent that binds to and activates excitatory amino acid receptors .
any hormone that is responsible for controlling sexual characteristics and reproductive function .
a hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of female sex characteristics in mammals by binding to oestrogen receptors .
any anion formed by loss of a proton from a steroid acid .
a drug that softens ,  separates ,  and causes desquamation of the cornified epithelium or horny layer of skin .
a drug used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin .
any protective agent counteracting or neutralizing the action of poisons .
drug that acts on blood and blood - forming organs and those that affect the hemostatic system .
an agent that prevents blood clotting .
any dicarboxylic acid carrying a hydroxy group on the carbon atom at position alpha to the carboxy group .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by metabolic processes before becoming the pharmacologically active drug for which it is a prodrug .
synthetic or natural substance which is given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits the bacterial enzymes of the dna topoisomerases ,  type i class  ( ec 5 .99 .1 .2 )  that catalyze atp - independent breakage of one of the two strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strand through the break ,  and rejoining of the broken strand .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a univalent organyl group obtained by cleaving the bond from c - 2 to the side chain of a proteinogenic amino - acid .
a fe ( iii )  - complexed hydroxamate siderophore comprising equimolar amounts of iron ( 3 +  )  and desferrioxamine b ( 3 -  ) 
a primary amine formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an aryl group .
substance that sweeten food ,  beverages ,  medications ,  etc .
compounds containing a bipyridine group .
an organic anion arising from deprotonation of the oh function of a phenol compound .
a salt of the organic compound tartaric acid .
an agent ,  with unique chemical structure and biochemical requirements ,  which generates nitric oxide .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
a cyclooxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of cyclooxygenase 1 .
a family of compounds derived from chitin and based on the structure of d - glucosaminyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - d - glucosamine .
a reagent with two reactive groups ,  usually at opposite ends of the molecule ,  that are capable of reacting with and thereby forming bridges between macromolecules ,  principally side chains of amino acids in proteins ,  allowing the locations of naturally reactive areas within the proteins to be identified .
a substance used either in the prevention or facilitation of pregnancy .
a compound in which monosaccharide units are joined by glycosidic linkages .
a product in capsule ,  tablet or liquid form that provide essential nutrients ,  such as a vitamin ,  an essential mineral ,  a protein ,  an herb ,  or similar nutritional substance .
a compound that interacts with progesterone receptors in target tissues to bring about effects similar to those of progesterone .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolysing )  ,  ec 5 .99 .1 .3  ( also known as topoisomerase ii and as dna gyrase )  ,  which catalyses atp - dependent breakage of both strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strands through the breaks ,  and rejoining of the broken strands .
a nanometre sized object .
a nanosized spherical or capsule - shaped structure .
biologically active substance whose activity affects or plays a role in the functioning of the immune system .
a substance that augments ,  stimulates ,  activates ,  potentiates ,  or modulates the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level .
a drug used to treat allergic reactions .
a natural or synthetic analogue of the hormones secreted by the adrenal gland .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role played by a chemical compound to induce direct or indirect dna damage .
a role played by a chemical compound which is known to  induce a process of carcinogenesis  by corrupting  normal cellular pathways ,  leading to the acquistion of tumoral capabilities .
a chemical compound which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a role played by a chemical compound  in biological systems with adverse consequences in embryo developments ,  leading to birth defects ,  embryo death or altered development ,  growth retardation and functional defect .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
a role played by a chemical compound exihibiting itself through the ability to induce damage to the liver in animals .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of lipid kinases .
a drug used to prevent nausea or vomiting .
an agent that modulates the physiologic angiogenesis process .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an organyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a cyclic compound containing nine or more atoms as part of the cyclic system .
a nanoparticle consisting of titanium dioxide .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - phenylpropionic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a chemical substance which binds to specific hormone receptors activating the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a drug that modulates the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
an  organic molecule that is electrically neutral carrying a positive and a negative charge in one of its major canonical descriptions .
a fluorescent dye used to stain biological specimens .
any  dibenzopyridine based on the skeleton of phenanthridine and its substituted derivatives thereof .
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement and their substitution derivatives .
compounds containing a tetracene skeleton .
a compound of general formula rc ( =o ) sr' .
a dinitrile is a compound containing two nitrile groups .
sulfate salts where the cation is a metal ion .
any anion formed by loss of a proton from the carboxy group of a penicillin .
a drug that binds to and activates gamma - aminobutyric acid receptors .
a substance ,  such as agonists ,  antagonists ,  degradation or uptake inhibitors ,  depleters ,  precursors ,  and modulators of receptor function ,  used for its pharmacological actions on gabaergic systems .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
cyclopropane and its derivatives formed by substitution .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with the amino group of an amino acid .
compounds containing a biotin  ( 5 -  [  ( 3as , 4s , 6ar )  - 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazol - 4 - yl ] pentanoic acid )  skeleton .
compounds containing two phosphane groups linked directly by a p - p bond or via a hydrocarbon bridge .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) r ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ketonic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
acridines which are substituted in any position by one or more amino groups or substituted amino groups .
a compound containing both ketone and nitrile functionalities .
a ketonitrile where the ketone and nitrile functionalities are on adjacent atoms .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of methanol .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of ethanol .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any molecule or ion capable of binding to a central metal atom to form coordination complexes .
a  chemical role played by the molecular entity or part thereof in a photochemical process .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
any flavonol carrying a 7 - hydroxy substituent .
an ortho - fused compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one heteroatom .
an ec 3 .2 .*  ( glycosylase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any glycosidase  ( i .e .
an antiviral drug targeted at influenza viruses .
a nanoparticle that contains no carbon .
a cationic fluorescent dye derived from 9 - phenylxanthene .
the biological role played by a material entity when bound by a receptor of the adaptive immune system .
the trisodium salt of citric acid .
the compound salicylanilide and its derivatives .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits dna topoisomerase iv ,  which catalyses atp - dependent breakage of both strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strands through the breaks ,  and rejoining of the broken strands .
a cephalosporin carboxylic acid anion having acetoxymethyl and  [ 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetyl ] amino side - groups ,  formed by proton loss from the carboxy group of the cephalosporin cefotaxime .
any drug found useful in the symptomatic treatment of diarrhoea .
a drug used for its effects on the gastrointestinal system ,  e .g .
an imidazolidine containing one or more oxo groups .
oxazoles in which the n and o atoms are adjacent .
compounds containing a cyclic dicarboximide skeleton in which the two carboacyl groups on nitrogen together with the nitrogen itself form a 1h - pyrrole - 2 , 5 - dione structure .
a carboxamide consisting of l - homoserine lactone having an unspecified n - acyl substituent .
a compound having the general formula rr'c ( oh ) or''  ( r'' = / = h )  .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
tetraanion of coenzyme a .
an acyl - coa ( 4 -  )  that is the tetraanion of acetyl - coa ,  arising from deprotonation of the phosphate and diphosphate oh groups .
a ribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion that is the trianion of adenosine 5' - triphosphate arising from deprotonation of three of the four free triphosphate oh groups .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of glycine .
tetraanion of phenylacetyl - coa arising from deprotonation of phosphate and diphosphate functions .
zwitterionic form of d - alanine .
trianion of utp arising from deprotonation of three of the oh groups from the triphosphate moiety .
dianion of n - acetyl - d - glucosamine 6 - phosphate arising from deprotonation of both oh groups of the phosphate .
a fatty acid anion with a chain length of c13 or greater .
conjugate base of biotin arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the dianion of sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate arising from deprotonation of both phosphate oh groups .
dianion of n - acyl - d - glucosamine 6 - phosphate arising from deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups .
trianion of gtp arising from deprotonation of three of the four phosphate oh groups .
zwitterionic form of gamma - amino - beta - hydroxybutyric acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
a carboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any n - acylglycine .
a glycerol 1 - phosphate ( 2 -  )  that is the dianion of sn - glycerol 1 - phosphate arising from deprotonation of both phosphate oh groups .
conjugate base of quercetin arising from selective deprotonation of the 7 - hydroxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of d - tryptophan having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated alpha - amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - threonine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an ammonium ion that is the trication of spermidine ,  formed by protonation at all three nitrogens .
zwitterionic form of l - methionine having a anionic carboxy group and a cationic amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
dianion of l - fuculose 1 - phosphate arising from deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a nucleoside 5' - monophosphate ( 2 -  )  that results from the removal of two protons from the phosphate group of ump .
the conjugate base of a nucleoside 5' - phosphate .
zwitterionic form of 6 - aminopenicillanic acid arising from migration of a proton from the carboxy group to the 6 - amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an l - alpha - amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - tryptophan ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a peptide anion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups and protonation of the glutamyl amino group of glutathione ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of l - threonine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
trianion of nucleoside diiphosphate arising from deprotonation of all three free oh groups of the diphosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of d - methionine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of beta - alanine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ammonium ion that is the trication of hygromycin b arising from protonation of the three amino groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of l - alanine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate base of 2 - dehydro - 3 - deoxy - d - gluconic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate acid of a primary aliphatic amine .
trication of streptomycin arising from protonation of the guanidino and secondary amino groups .
zwitterionic form of anhydrotetracycline arising from transfer of a proton from the 2 - hydroxy to the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the dianion of a nucleoside monophosphate: major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of l - asparagine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion of homocysteine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate acid of homoserine lactone ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
trianion of nucleoside triphosphate arising from deprotonation of three of the four free triphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of 3' , 5' - cyclic amp arising from deprotonation of the free phosphate oh group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - homocysteine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a quadruply - charged organic cation arising from protonation of the four amino groups of kanamycin a ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a ribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion arising from deprotonation of three of the four triphosphate oh groups of cytidine 5' - triphosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of o - acetyl - l - serine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an acyl - coa oxoanion arising from deprotonation of the phosphate and diphosphate oh groups of any acyl - coa ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - glutamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of trimethylamine ,  obtained via protonation of the nitrogen ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a flavonol oxoanion that is the conjugate base of myricetin ,  arising from selective deprotonation of the 3 - hydroxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
dianion of alpha , alpha - trehalose 6 - phosphate .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of histamine protonated on the side - chain nitrogen .
the conjugate base of a nucleoside 3' , 5' - cyclic phosphate .
an organic cation that is the pentacation of kanamycin b ,  obtained by protonation of the primary amino groups .
the conjugate base of a flavonol compound .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the amino group of l - homoserine lactone .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is a trianion arising from deprotonation of the phosphate and carboxylic acid functions of n - acetylmuramic acid 6 - phosphate .
dianion of cyclic di - 3' , 5' - guanylic acid .
an organic phosphoric acid derivative in which one or more oxygen atoms of the phosphate group ( s )  has been deprotonated .
any acyl coenzyme a thioester in which one or more of the phosphate and / or diphosphate groups has been deprotonated .
any fatty acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a short - chain fatty acid  ( chain length of less than c6 )  .
any fatty acid anion in which there is no c - c unsaturation .
any saturated fatty acid anion lacking a carbon side - chain .
polymyxins are antibiotics with a general structure consisting of a cyclic peptide with a long hydrophobic tail .
a polymyxin having a 6 - methylheptanoyl group at the amino terminus .
a substance used as an indicator  of a biological state .
any substance capable of eliciting an immune response only when attached to a large carrier such as a protein .
any fatty acid whose skeletal carbon atoms form an unbranched open chain .
a fatty acid anion formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid functional group of a straight - chain fatty acid .
any substance that inhibits the synthesis of dna .
any fatty acid with a chain length of between c6 and c12 .
a fatty acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety of a medium - chain fatty acid .
an  organic anion that is the conjugate base of diamino acid .
an n - acylglucosamine where the n - acyl group is specified as acetyl .
any fatty acid containing at least one aldehydic or ketonic group in addition to the carboxylic acid group .
a drug ,  usually applied topically ,  that relieves pruritus  ( itching )  .
compounds containing one or more phosphoric acid units .
an organophosphate anion resulting from deprotonation of at least one of the acidic hydroxy groups from the triphosphate moiety of a nucleoside triphosphate .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
an organooxygen compound having the structure rr'c ( or'' )  ( or''' )   ( r'' ,  r''' = / = h )  .
an acetal in the molecule of which the acetal carbon and one or both oxygen atoms thereon are members of a ring .
a hemiacetal having the structure rr'c ( oh ) r''  ( r ,  r' ,  r'' = / = h )  ,  derived from a ketone by formal addition of an alcohol to the carbonyl group .
an acetal of formula r2c ( or ) 2  ( r = / = h )  derived from a ketone by replacement of the oxo group by two hydrocarbyloxy groups .
a ketal in the molecule of which the ketal carbon and one or both oxygen atoms thereon are members of a ring .
a hemiacetal  having the structure r2c ( oh ) or  ( r = / = h )  ,  derived from a ketone by formal addition of an alcohol to the carbonyl group .
a zwitterionic tautomer of s - adenosyl - l - methionine arising from shift of the proton from the carboxy group to the amino group .
the sulfur analogue of 'acetal' .
a thioacetal having the structure r2c ( or' )  ( sr' )  .
conjugate base of an l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
a synthetic progestogen .
a fatty acid anion carrying one or more oxo substituents
zwitterionic form of an l - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of a d - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
the conjugate base of an n - acyl - d - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
a polymer is a mixture ,  which is composed of macromolecules of different kinds and which may be differentiated by composition ,  length ,  degree of branching etc . .
any anion arising from deprotonation of at least one oh group in a flavonoid compound .
a sialic acid anion arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group of an n - acylneuraminic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
conjugate base of a 7 - hydroxyflavonol compound arising from selective deprotonation of the 3 - hydroxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a deoxyribonucleoside containing a purine base .
a metal cation with a valence of two .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
a nickel atom having a net electric charge .
a lead atom having a net electric charge .
r = c or h . the iminium ion resulting from the protonation of one of the imine nitrogens of guanidine or its derivatives .
a lead atom having a positive net electric charge .
puromycin monoprotonated at the amino nitrogen .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydrolase acting on peptide bonds  ( peptidase )  ,  ec 3 .4 .* .
an anion formed by deprotonation of at least one peptide carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of any peptide where the amino terminus is positively charged and the carboxy terminus is negatively charged .
a commercially important azabicyclic antibiotic obtained from streptomyces sapporonensis .
any substance that inhibits the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
any substance which inhibits the action of receptors for excitatory amino acids .
any pharmacological or immunological agent that modifies the effect of other agents such as drugs or vaccines while having few if any direct effects when given by itself .
any alpha - amino acid anion in which the parent amino acid has d - configuration .
a racemate is an equimolar mixture of a pair of enantiomers .
any  amino sugar that is a monosaccharide in which one alcoholic hydroxy group is replaced by an amino group .
a poison that interferes with the function of the kidneys .
kanamycin is a naturally occurring antibiotic complex from streptomyces kanamyceticus that consists of several components: kanamycin a ,  the major component  ( also usually designated as kanamycin )  ,  and kanamycins b ,  c ,  d and x the minor components .
an inorganic radical in which a free electron resides on one or more oxygen atoms of an oxygen species .
a nucleoside bisphosphate that has a purine nucleobase .
a nucleoside bisphosphate where sugar of the nucleoside is ribose .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of histone deacetylase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .98 )  .
any compound that has a nucleobase as a part .
an ammonium ion that results from the protonation of the dimethyl - substituted nitrogen of promethazine .
a nucleotide having guanine as the base .
a  nucleotide having adenine as the base .
a purine ribonucleotide where the purine is guanine .
a purine riboncleotide where adenine is the purine .
a purine 2' - deoxyribonucleotide where the purine is adenine .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton .
a dicarboxylate that contains four carbon atoms .
any hydroxy carboxylic acid which contains a hydroxy group located beta -  to the carboxylic acid group .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside 5' - triphosphate ( 4 -  )  that is the tetraanion of 2' - deoxyadenosine 5' - triphosphate ( datp )  ,  arising from deprotonation of the four triphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an s - glycosyl compound consisting of beta - d - 1 - thiogalactose having an isopropyl group attached to the anomeric sulfur .
a ribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion arising from global deprotonation of the  triphosphate group of any nucleoside triphosphate .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion being the tetraanion formed by global deprotonation of the triphosphate group .
an organophosphate anion resulting from deprotonation of at least one of the acidic hydroxy groups from the triphosphate moiety of a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate .
any cyclitol having one or more alcoholic hydroxy groups replaced by substituted or unsubstituted amino groups .
any organic molecular entity derived from a fatty acid .
an ec 1 .14 .13 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating 1 atom of oxygen ,  with nadh or nadph as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of nitric oxide synthase  ( ec 1 .14 .13 .39 )  .
a trisaccharide comprised of three d - glucose residues connected by alpha ( 1 -  > 4 )  linkages .
a maltotriose trisaccharide in which the glucose residue at the reducing end is in the aldehydo open - chain form .
zwitterionic form of a polar amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
any donor that can transfer acyl groups between molecular entities .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of nalidixic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to at least two hydrogens .
any mannosamine carrying an n - acetyl substituent
any rhamnose having l - configuration .l - rhamnose occurs naturally in many plant glycosides and some gram - negative bacterial lipopolysaccharides .
the organophosphate oxoanion that is the monoanion formed from biotinyl - 5' - amp by loss of a proton from the phospho group ;  major microspecies at ph 7 .3 .
a molecular messenger in which the molecule is specifically involved in transmitting information between cells .
an amide in which the amide linkage is bonded directly to an aromatic system .
a family of nitrogen molecular entities which are highly reactive and derived from nitric oxide  (  .no )  and superoxide  ( o2 .
any additive that enhances the efficiency of fuel .
any compound that is able to prevent damage to the liver .
a carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of a sialic acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an inorganic sulfate salt obtained by reaction of sulfuric acid with two equivalents of ammonia .
an organic sodium salt which is the monosodium salt of formic acid .
the inorganic nitrate salt of sodium .
an inorganic chloride in which manganese ( ii )  is coordinated to two chloride ions .
the inorganic nitrate salt of potassium .
the chemical role played by a substance that stabilizes an emulsion by increasing its kinetic stability .
any zinc ion that is positively charged .
a transition element cation where the metal is specifed as cadmium .
a beta - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of beta - alanine .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - homocysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an n - acetylmannosamine having d - configuration .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
an organophosphate oxoanion resulting from deprotonation of at least one of the acidic hydroxy groups from the phosphate moiety of a ribonucleoside monophosphate .
the element or compound in a reduction - oxidation  ( redox )  reaction that donates an electron to another species .
a substance that removes electrons from another reactant in a redox reaction .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of alkaline phosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .1 )  .
a carbohydrate derivative formally obtained from a deoxy sugar .
a deoxy sugar derivative that is formally obtained from a deoxyhexose .
a deoxy sugar derivative that is formally obtained from a deoxyketohexose .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a disaccharide .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a monosaccharide .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a hexose .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a ketoaldonic acid .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a pentose .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from an alditol .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a carbohydrate acid .
a sulfur - containing amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
a branched - chain amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
an aromatic amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( non - protonated )  .
a substance capable of undergoing rapid and highly exothermic decomposition .
an aralylamino compound which contains one amino group connected to an aromatic ring by a two - carbon chain .
a carboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of a carbohydrate acid derivative .
a carbohydrate acid derivative anion that is formally obtained from a ketoaldonate .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from an oligosaccharide .
any compound that can be used for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders .
an n - acyl - l - homoserine lactone having 3 - oxohexanoyl as the acyl substituent .
an inorganic sodium salt having tungstate as the counterion .
any lactone in which the cyclic carboxylic ester group forms a part of a cyclic macromolecule .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a protein kinase c receptor
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
a food additive that is used to change or otherwise control the acidity or alkalinity of foods .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a protein kinase receptor .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of any erythromycin .
an organic amino compound in which an aminoalkyl group is linked to an arene .
any organic salt prepared using an organosulfonic acid as the acid component .
an organic aromatic compound whose structure contains two aromatic rings or ring systems ,  joined to each other by a single bond .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of tryptophan ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of methionine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 2 .1 .2 .*  ( hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glycine hydroxymethyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .1 )  .
an excitatory amino acid agonist which binds to nmda receptors and triggers a response .
a food additive which is added to flour or dough to improve baking quality and / or colour .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton that acts as a hormone .
an inorganic cation with a valency of two .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of three .
the role played by a substance in enhancing the appearance or odour of the human body ;  a name given to the substance itself or to a component of it .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
any compound that inhibits cell division  ( mitosis )  .
a drug used to treat or prevent infections caused by mycobacteria ,  a genus of actinobacteria .
a lipoxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of arachidonate 15 - lipoxygenase  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .33 )  .
any ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of triacylglycerol lipase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .3 )  .
any compound that has anti - asthmatic effects .
an  ec 4 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxy - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of arginine decarboxylase  ( ec 4 .1 .1 .19 )  .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of fructose - bisphosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .11 )  .
an agonist at the a1 receptor .
substances which are added to food in order to prevent decomposition caused by  microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes .
a food preservative which prevents decomposition of food by preventing the growth of fungi or bacteria .
a compound that inhibits the action of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen atom of a primary amine .
any xylose with d - configuration .
any xylose with l - configuration .
a 2 - hydroxydicarboxylic acid that is succinic acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to a carbon is replaced by a hydroxy group .
any dicarboxylic acid that contains four carbon atoms .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of alanine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of homocysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
any compound used to suppress premature labour and immature birth by suppressing uterine contractions .
a sulfonium betaine that is a conjugate base of s - adenosyl - l - methionine obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy and one of the phosphate oh groups of glyphosate .
any compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
a molecule that can substitute for a normal nucleobase in nucleic acids .
any monocyclic heteroarene consisting of a five - membered ring containing nitrogen .
any substance that induces the process of apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  in multi - celled organisms .
a hormone agonist that binds to and activates progesterone receptors .
an ec 5 .99 .1 .*  ( miscellaneous isomerase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any of the topoisomerases  ( enzymes that regulate the overwinding or underwinding of dna )  .
any protein kinase inhibitor that inhibits the action of an aurora kinase  ( a group of serine / threonine kinases that are essential for cell proliferation )  .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino groups of any alkane - alpha , omega - diamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of a transferase  ( ec 2 .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of n - monoacetylchitobiose - 6 - phosphate ,  obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups and protonation of the free amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a disaccharide phosphate that is n' - monoacetylchitobiose substituted at position 6' by a phospho group .
a signalling molecule produced and used by bacteria participating in quorum sensing ,  that is ,  in cell - cell communication to coordinate community - wide regulation of processes such as biofilm formation ,  virulence ,  and bioluminescence in populations of bacteria .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of novobiocin .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the 5 - hydroxy group to the tertiary amino group of rifampicin .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of tetracycline obtained by deprotonation of the two enolic hydroxy groups and protonation of the tertiary amino group .
an amino - acid anion in which the amino group is situated gamma -  to the carboxylate group .
a carbohydrate acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any aldonic acid .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of d - galactosamine 6 - phosphate ,  obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups and protonation of the 2 - amino group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of an aldehydic acid .
any organooxygen compound that has the general formula rc ( or ( 1 )  )  ( or ( 2 )  )  ( or ( 3 )  )  ,  where r ( 1 )  ,  r ( 2 )  ,  r ( 3 )  = / = h .
any organic molecular entity whose stucture is based on derivatives of a phenyl - substituted 1 - phenylpropane possessing a c15 or c16 skeleton ,  or such a structure which is condensed with a c6 - c3 lignan precursors .
any organic molecular entity derived from a natural product by partial chemical synthesis .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the primary amino groups of kanamycin c .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the primary amino groups of kanamycin x .
a kanamycin that is kanamycin a in which the 6' - amino group is replaced by a hydroxy group .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the primary amino groups of kanamycin d .
a kanamycin that is kanamycin a in which the 3'' - amino group is replaced by a hydroxy group .
an  ec 1 .11 .1 .*  ( peroxidases )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of l - ascorbate peroxidase  ( ec 1 .11 .1 .11 )  .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase which acts on acid anhydrides  ( ec 3 .6 .* .
any compound that inhibits oxidative phosphorylation .
an agonist at any adenosine receptor .
a drug used in treating and healing of wounds .
any organic molecule containing a c#c bond .
any naphthyridine derivative that is a derivative of 1 , 8 - naphthyridine .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound that is a derivative of a naphthyridine .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from erythrose 4 - phosphate and phosphoenolpyruvate  ( i .e .
a carbonyl compound produced as a water - soluble byproduct when fatty acids are broken down for energy in the liver .
a carbohydrate derivative in which one or more of the oxygens or hydroxy groups of the parent carbohydrate is replaced by sulfur or  - sr ,  where r can be hydrogen or any group .
an  ec 1 .17 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2 )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of ribonucleoside - diphosphate reductase  ( ec 1 .17 .4 .1 )  .
an optically active form of glyceric acid having l - configuration .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - asparagine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an imidazolidinone that is imidazolin - 2 - one substituted at positions 4 and 5 by hydroxy and ureido groups respectively .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralize the deleterious effects of paracetamol  ( acetaminophen )  .
an acridinium ion resulting from the protonation of the endocyclic nitrogen of 3 , 6 - diaminoacridine .
an acridinium ion resulting from the protonation of the endocyclic nitrogen and one of the amino groups of 3 , 6 - diaminoacridine .
a compound that causes the contraction of body tissues ,  typically used to reduce bleeding from minor abrasions .
a pentahydroxyflavone that is 7 - hydroxyflavonol bearing three additional hydroxy substituents at positions 2' 4' and 5 .
an inorganic sodium salt having molybdate as the counterion .
an ec 1 .11 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on peroxide as donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any of the peroxidases  ( ec 1 .11 .1 .
an ec 6 .1 .*  ( c - o bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ligase forming aminoacyl trna and related compounds  ( ec 6 .1 .1 .
a hydrazone that is hydrazonomalononitrile in which one of the hydrazine hydrogens is substituted by a p - trifluoromethoxyphenyl group .
a hydroxamic acid obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of serine with the amino group of hydroxylamine .
an ec 6 .1 .1 .*  ( ligases forming aminoacyl trna and related compounds )  inhibitor that specifically inhibits the action of seryl - trna synthetase  ( ec 6 .1 .1 .11 )  .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of an isomerase  ( ec 5 .* .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a ligase  ( ec 6 .* .* .* )  .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - c bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .4 .* .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
any of the group of eight water - soluble vitamins originally thought to be a single compound  ( vitamin b )  that play important roles in cell metabolism .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
a compound of iron and sulfate in which the ratio of iron ( 2 +  )  to sulfate ions is 1:1 .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any aromatic amino - acid .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound .
a compound of ammonium ,  iron and sulfate in which the ratio of ammonium to iron ( 2 +  )  to sulfate ions is 2:1:2 .
a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range ,  so contributing to the 'greenhouse effect' .
a compressed gas or liquid with a boiling point lower than room temperature which to used to propel and dispense liquids such as deodorants ,  insecticides ,  paints ,  etc .
a nitroso compound that is any urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by a nitroso group
a transferase inhibitor inhibiting the action of transferase of a one - carbon - containing group  ( ec 2 .1 .* .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the transfer of an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the action of a phosphorus - containing group transferase  ( ec 2 .7 .* .
an isomerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of an intramolecular oxidoreductase  ( ec 5 .3 .* .
an isomerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any member of the group of 'other isomerases'  ( ec 5 .99 .* .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - o bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .1 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of a lyase  ( ec 4 .* .* .* )  .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - c lyase  ( ec 4 .1 .* .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - o lyase  ( ec 4 .2 .* .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - n lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - ch group of donors  ( ec 1 .3 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - nh2 group of donors  ( ec 1 .4 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on a heme group of donors  ( ec 1 .9 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on diphenols and related substances as donors  ( ec 1 .10 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on peroxide as donors  ( ec 1 .11 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen  ( oxygenases )  ,  ec 1 .13 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on hydrogen as donors  ( ec 1 .14 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on superoxide as acceptor  ( ec 1 .15 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2  ( ec 1 .17 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any glycosylase  ( ec 3 .2 .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylic ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphoric monoester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .
an ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that interferes wtih the action of any aminopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .11 .
an ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any dipeptidyl -  and tripeptidyl - peptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .14 .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a glutathione transferase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .18 )  .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any nucleotidyltransferase  ( ec 2 .7 .7 .
an ec 6 .4 .*  ( c - c bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylating enzyme  ( ec 6 .4 .1 .
an ec 5 .99 .*  ( other isomerases )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any enzyme in the ec 5 .99 .1 .
an ec 4 .3 .*  ( c - n lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .
an ec 2 .5 .*  ( transferase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any transferase that transfers an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .
an ec 1 .13 .*  [ oxidoreductase acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen  ( oxygenases )  ]  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any oxidoreductase incorporating 2 atoms of oxygen  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any enzyme in the ec 1 .14 .99 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme incorporating one atom of oxygen and using nadh or nadph as one donor  ( ec 1 .14 .13 .
an ec 1 .17 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2 )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any such enzyme that uses a disulfide as acceptor  ( ec 1 .17 .4 .
an ec 1 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .
an ec 1 .4 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh2 group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .4 .3 .
an ec 1 .9 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .
an ec 2 .1 .*  ( c1 - transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any methyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .1 .
an ec 2 .1 .*  ( c1 - transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphotransferase with an alcohol group as acceptor  ( ec 2 .7 .1 .
an ec 3 .4 .11 .*  ( aminopeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cytosol alanyl aminopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .11 .14 )  .
an ec 3 .4 .14 .*  ( dipeptidyl -  and tripeptidyl - peptidases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of dipeptidyl - peptidase ii  ( ec 3 .4 .14 .2 )  .
an ec 4 .1 .*  ( c - c lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any carboxy - lyase  ( ec 4 .1 .1 .
an ec 4 .2 .*  ( c - o lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydro - lyase  ( ec 4 .2 .1 .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in plants ,  the kingdom that include flowering plants ,  conifers and other gymnosperms .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with one or more steps in a metabolic pathway .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in the mould ,  aspergillus .
any fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in penicillium .
any human metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in humans .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
any bacterial metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in bacteria .
any compound produced by a plant that happens to have estrogenic activity .
an ec 1 .10 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on diphenols and related substances as donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme in the ec 1 .10 .99 .
an ec 1 .10 .99 .*  ( oxidoreductases acting on diphenols and related substances as donors ,  other acceptors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of ribosyldihydronicotinamide dehydrogenase  ( quinone )  ,  ec 1 .10 .99 .2 .
an ec 2 .1 .1 .*  ( methyltransferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of  ( s )  - tetrahydroprotoberberine n - methyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .1 .122 )  .
a food additive that imparts colour to food .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the secondary amino groups of spectinomycin .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a pregnane x receptor .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any dicarboxylic acid monoamide ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any product obtained as a result of thermally induced non - enzymatic degradation .
any thermal degradation product obtained as a result of a chemical reaction between an amino acid and a reducing sugar  ( maillard reaction ,  a non - enzymatic browning procedure that usually imparts flavour to starch - based food products )  .
an ec 4 .3 .1 .*  ( ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of histidine ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .3 )  .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
an ec 4 .3 .1 .*  ( ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of diaminopropionate ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .15 )  .
an enol that is 3 - methylbut - 1 - ene in which one of the terminal hydrogens is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the 2 - hydroxy group to the 1 - amino group of tetracycline .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
an antioxidant that used as a food additives to help guard against food deterioration .
a food additive that is a  ( generally inert )  gas which is used to envelop foodstuffs during packing and so protect them from unwanted chemical reactions such as food spoilage or oxidation during subsequent transport and storage .
a propellant that is used to expel foods from an aerosol container .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 3 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 4 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 6 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 8 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 10 carbons .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is propanoic acid in which one of the alpha - hydrogens is replaced by a hydroxy group .
an ec 2 .7 .1 .*  ( phosphotransferases with an alcohol group as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of hexokinase ,  ec 2 .7 .1 .1 ,  an enzyme that phosphorylates hexoses forming hexose phosphate .
an ec 1 .3 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of acyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( nadp (  +  )  )  ,  ec 1 .3 .1 .8 .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
a bile acid anion that is the conjugate base of ursodeoxycholic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
any metabolite produced by all living cells .
a ketohexose bisphosphate that is d - fructose substituted by phosphate groups at positions 1 and 6 .
a ketohexose monophosphate consisting of fructose having a phosphate group located at the 1 - position
any organic molecular entity that contains at least one c=c bond .
an inorganic sodium salt having nitrite as the counterion .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in  single - celled microorganisms ,  archaea .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carbon of the carboxy group is directly attached to a c=c or c#c bond .
a metal oxide with formula ceo2 .
a member of the class of pantothenic acids that is an amide formed from pantoic acid and beta - alanine .
an amino cyclitol glycoside that is the 1 - o -  ( 2 - amino - 2 - deoxy - alpha - d - glucopyranoside )  and the 3 - o -  ( 2 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 6 - dideoxy - beta - l - idopyranosyl )  - beta - d - ribofuranoside of 4 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 3 - dihydroxycyclohexane  ( the 1r , 2r , 3s , 4r , 6s diastereoisomer )  .
any inorganic anion with a valency of three .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
any nitrile derived from an aliphatic compound .
substances that are administered to farmed animals to improve productivity by promoting weight gain ,  increasing muscle mass ,  limiting fat deposition ,  reducing feed consumption ,  and reducing waste production .
an elemental molecular entity in which all of the atoms have atomic number 26 .
a  hydroxy - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone that is 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 5 are substituted by methyl and hydroxy groups ,  respectively .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of oleanolic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an animal metabolite produced by arthropods such as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimps and krill .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia magna .
a crustacean metabolite produced by the genus of small planktonic arthropods ,  daphnia
a polymyxin having a  ( 6r )  - 6 - methyloctanoyl group at the amino terminus .
a monocarboxylic acid amide that is the n - acyl derivative of homoserine lactone .
an ester resulting from the formal condensation of the hydroxy group of an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol with an organosulfonic acid .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring in which only one substituent is chlorine .
any derivative of a proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or a side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any derivative of a non - proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group or carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any of the 23 alpha - amino acids that are precursors to proteins ,  and are incorporated into proteins during translation .
any amino - acid that is not naturally encoded in the genetic code of any organism .
any derivative of an amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from the formal reaction of l - cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - cysteine by a heteroatom .
any  alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
any phospho sugar that is the phosphate derivative of pentose .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human urine samples .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - serine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - serine by a heteroatom .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - threonine  at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - threonine  by a heteroatom .
an aminoacridine that is acridine that is substituted by amino groups at positions 3 and 6 .
a phenolate anion obtained from 2 , 4 - dinitrophenol .
a  tertiary amine that is a substituted phenothiazine in which the ring nitrogen at position 10 is attached to c - 3 of an n , n - dimethylpropan - 2 - amine moiety .
any iron ( iii )  hydroxamate in which the hydroxamate component is a siderophore .
a hydroxamic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from each of the hydroxamic acid groups of desferrioxamine b
any iron chelate that consists of a siderophore complexed to iron ( iii ) 
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in algae including unicellular organisms like chlorella and diatoms to multicellular organisms like giant kelps and brown algae .
any cosmetic used to lighten the colour of skin by reducing the concentration of melanin .
any member of the class of cholanic acids carrying two hydroxy substituents at unspecified positions .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human blood serum samples .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of a haloacetic acid .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic whose structure contains a quinolone or quinolone - related skeleton .
any antifungal agent used to prevent or treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
any substance used in acriculture ,  horticulture ,  forestry ,  etc .
a gluconic acid having l - configuration .
an ec 5 .3 .*  ( intramolecular oxidoreductase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any such enzyme that transposes c=c bonds  ( ec 5 .3 .3 .
heteroorganic entities that are microbial metabolites  ( or compounds derived from them )  which have significant antifungal properties .
any antibiotic antifungal agent used to treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
any antibiotic antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic containing a quinolone  ( or quinolone - like )  moiety and which have a fluorine atom attached to the central ring system .
a class of sulfonamides whose members generally have bacteriostatic antibiotic properties .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of two of the three diphosphate oh groups of adenosine 5' - diphosphate .
a bile acid salt that is the sodium salt of glycochenodeoxycholic acid .
any organic amino compound that contains two or more amino groups .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any metal cation which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any penicillin which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any drug which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
an inorganic chloride consisting of two chlorine atoms covalently bound to a central lead atom .
an n - substituted diamine that is ethylenediamine in which the four amino hydrogens are replaced by 2 - pyridylmethyl groups .
an ec 6 .4 .1 .*  ( carboxylase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of pyruvate carboxylase  ( ec 6 .4 .1 .1 )  .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated monocarboxylic acid that is acrylic acid in which one of the hydrogens at position 3 is replaced by an indol - 2 - yl group .
a drug that acts as an antagonist ,  agonist ,  reverse agonist ,  or in some other fashion when interacting with cellular receptors .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralize the deleterious effects of cyanide .
a carboxylic acic anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any aromatic carboxylic acid .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates elastin - laminin receptors .
an organic heterotricyclic antibiotic that is active against gram - negative bacteria and used  ( as its dihydrochloride pentahydrate )  to treat gonorrhea .
a salicylanilide derivative where the hydrogens at positions 2 ,  3 ,  4 and 5 are substituted by chlorine .
a bile acid found in the bile of bears  ( ursidae )  as a conjugate with taurine .
a pentacyclic triterpenoid that is urs - 12 - en - 28 - oic acid substituted by a beta - hydroxy group at position 3 .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
a biological process that involves only one organism .
a metabolic process  -  chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances  -  which involves a single organism .
a liquid or solid substance or entity that naturally exists ,  where microorganims are able to grow .
a culture medium made specifically for the grow ,  storage ,  isolation ,  identification or transportation of microorganisms .
minimal salts plus glycerol and fumarate
conditioned medium containing biologically active components obtained from e . coli strain le392
a mutant genotype in which one or more genes can have modifications  ( subtitutions ,  indels ,  partial truncations ,  etc )  ,  but they conserve functionality
an optical density that specifies the amount of light of 600 nm of wavelenght the bearer is able to transmit
an optical density that specifies the amount of light of 650 nm of wavelenght the bearer is able to transmit
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the amount of light that the bearer of the quality is able to transmit
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the amount of oxygen or air the bearer contains
a knockout mutant in which the function of rpos gene has been disrupted
a growth phase in which growth rate is null
a growth phase in wich growth rate increases
a growth phase in which growth rate is constant
a growth phase in which growth rate decreases
a growth phase after retardation phase in which growth rate is null
a growth phase in which growth rate is negative
is a growth phase that is part of exponential phase and that is located between acceleration phase and mid exponential phase
a growth phase that is part of stationary phase and locates right after retardation phase
is a growth phase that comprises early exponential phase and mid exponential phase
is a growth phase that is part of exponential phase and locates between mid exponential phase and retardation phase
growth phase that is part of exponential phase and locates in the middle of the exponential phase
is a growth phase that comprises mid exponential phase and late exponential phase
an overexpression mutant in which leuo is expressed at higher levels than in the wild type
an overexpression mutant in which mpra is expressed at higher levels than the wild type
a hydrolysate prepared from corn stover pretreated by ammonia fiber expansion
an artificial medium with a defined chemical composition designed to mimic afex - pretreated corn stover hydrolysate  ( acsh ) 
an artificial medium made up of inhibitory compounds that are lignin derivatives resulting from pretreatment and enzymatic hydrolysis of lignocellulose  ( lignotoxins ) 
an optical density that specifies the amount of light of 536 nm of wavelenght the bearer is able to transmit
an optical density that specifies the amount of light of 550 nm of wavelenght the bearer is able to transmit
a process in which the act is intended to modify or alter some other material entity , 
a process performed as part of an experiment or wider study ,  i .e .
a defined microbiological culture medium that provides the minimum requirements  ( e .g . ,  inorganic salts ,  but no amino acids )  needed for growth of a particular bacterium or cell .
nutrient media contain all the elements that most bacteria need for growth and are non - selective ,  so they are used for the general cultivation and maintenance of bacteria kept in laboratory culture collections
moving back and forth or with an irregular ,  rapid ,  or violent action
a biological entity is a heterogeneous substance that contains genomic material or is the product of a biological process .
a biological quality is a quality held by a biological entity .
a measurement of the number of cells per unit volume or area .
the maximum value in a range of values that describe cell density .
the minimum value in a range of values that describe cell density .
the arithmetic mean of a range of values that describe the cell density of an entity .
a living entity .
a natural phenomenon involving the physics of matter and energy .
an altered form of an individual ,  organism ,  population ,  or genetic character that differs from the corresponding wild type due to one or more alterations  ( mutations )  .
the naturally - occurring ,  normal ,  non - mutated version of a gene or genome .
a container with a base wider than the narrow neck traditionally used for holding liquids .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a processed material that provides the needed nourishment for microorganisms or cells grown in vitro .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material .
a microtiter_plate is a flat plate with multiple wells used as small test tubes .
a test tube is a device consisting of a glass or plastic tubing ,  open at the top ,  usually with a rounded u - shaped bottom which has the function to contain material
a device that can be used to restrict the location of material entities over time
a device or system that supports a biologically active environment .
aparatus in the fluidic subsystem where the sheath and sample meet .
a multi - organism phenotype dealing with the process in which microorganisms attach to and grow on a surface and produce extracellular polymers that facilitate attachment and matrix formation .
an altered growth rate phenotype where the rate at which a cell or cells multiplies is decreased relative to a designated control .
an altered growth rate phenotype where the rate at which a cell or cells multiplies is increased relative to a designated control .
a population growth phenotype where the rate at which a cell or cells multiplies is altered relative to a designated control .
a growth phenotype concerning the rate at which the number of organisms or cells in a microbial population increases over time .
a microbial phenotype that affects the rate or extent of increase in the number of individuals in a microbial population as the result of sexual or asexual reproduction .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of force per unit area it exerts .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a temperature which is relatively high .
a temperature which is relatively low .
a cellular quality inhering in a cell by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to move spontaneously .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a cellular motility which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a cellular motility which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a chemical treatment  ( eo:0007189 )  that induces stress .
a chemical stress treatment  ( eo:0001036 )  involving use of oxidative stress - inducing chemicals .
a chemical stress treatment  ( eo:0001036 )  involving use of osmotic stress - inducing chemicals .
the treatment involving an exposure to a given pressure of the atmosphere at a given point .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
mucus is a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
liquid components of living organisms .
oxygen content with high oxygen concentration
oxygen content with low oxygen concentration
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the amount of hydrogen ions it contains
experimental condition in which the ph of the water is lower than the ph of the controlled conditions .
notes on the how instances of this class vary across species .
experimental condition in which the ph of the water is higher than the ph of the controlled conditions .
