the side of an organism that is left of the sagittal plane .
a 2d surface of an anatomical continuant .
fiat anatomical region extending a short distance from the boundary of an object inwards .
the side of an organism that is right of the sagittal plane .
sagittal plane that divides a bilateral body into unequal left and right parts .
sagittal plane that divides bilateral body into equal left and right parts .
a straight line through space ,  intersecting an anatomical entity .
an anatomical axis determined by gravity .
an axis that extends from an internal position to a more external position in the body or body part .
an axis that extends through an organism from head end to opposite end of body or tail .
an axis that extends through an organism or organism part from the part of the organism or organism part attached to a substrate  ( basal )  to the furthest from the attachment  ( apical )  .
an axis that extends from the point of attachment of a structure  ( proximal )  to the  point furthest away from the plane of attachment  ( distal )  .
an axis that is approximately perpendicular to the anterior - posterior axis and that extends through the horizontal plane of the body .
an axis that bisects an organism from left to right sides of body ,  through a sagittal plane .
anatomical plane that divides body into anterior and posterior parts .
anatomical plane that divides bilateral body into dorsal and ventral parts .
anatomical gradient that is distributed along the upper - lower axis .
anatomical gradient that is distributed along the deep - superficial axis .
the side that is higher relative to the substrate .
anatomical gradient that is distributed along the apical - basal axis .
anatomical gradient that is distributed along the proximal - distal axis .
the side that is lower relative to the substrate .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and dorsal regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and ventral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and lateral regions of the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and lateral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and dorsal regions of the body or body part .
anatomical region located deep within an organism or structure .
anatomical region superficially located on the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and ventral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the antero - medial region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the antero - lateral region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the postero - medial region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the postero - lateral region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the dorso - medial region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the ventro - medial region of the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and medial regions of the body or body part .
material anatomical entity defined by change in the value of some quantity per unit of distance across some spatial axis .
anatomical gradient that is distributed along the anterior - posterior axis .
anatomical gradient that is distributed along the dorsal - ventral axis .
an anatomical region bounded by a plane perpendicular to an axis through the middle .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure anterior to a transverse plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure posterior to a transverse plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
anatomical side that is located on the apical end of an organism or structure .
anatomical side that is located on the basal end of an organism or structure .
anatomical side that is centrally located on an organism or structure .
on the opposite side .
anatomical side that is distally located on an organism or structure .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and medial regions of the body or body part .
on the same side
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure ventral to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same horizontal plane .
anatomical region that overlaps the dorsal and medial regions of the body or body part .
a 3d region in space without well - defined compartmental boundaries ;  for example ,  the dorsal region of an ectoderm .
anatomical region anteriorly located on the body or body part .
anatomical region posteriorly located on the body or body part .
anatomical region located on the apical end on the body or body part .
anatomical region located basally on the body or body part .
anatomical region centrally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region proximally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region distally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region dorsally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the dorsal and lateral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region laterally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region medially located on the body or body part .
anatomical region ventrally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the ventral and lateral regions of a body or body part .
the region corresponding to the ventral region of the entity ,  towards the midline .
anatomical region peripherally located on the body or body part .
an anatomical axis that extends from the side of the anatomical entity that is closer to an axis  ( adaxial )  to the side that is further from the same axis  ( abaxial )  .
an anatomical axis that extends from the center of the body outwards or externally .
an anatomical axis that is perpendicular to an apical / basal axis or proximal / distal axis and extends from the center of an axis  ( shoot axis or root in the case of plants )  to any point on the exterior of the axis .
an axis that extends from the oral opening to the furthest point in an organism that is directly opposite .
an axis that extends from the animal end of an egg or early embryo to the opposite ,  vegetal end .
an axis of a plant structure that is determined by the direction of apical growth ,  either by an apical meristem or an apical cell .
anatomical plane that is perpendicular to a radial plane .
anatomical plane that follows the two dimensions specified by an apical - basal axis relative to direction of growth and a medial - lateral axis .
anatomical surface that is located on the anterior side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the posterior side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the apical side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the basal side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the proximal side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the distal side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that located on the dorsal side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the same side of an organism or structure .
anatomical surface that located on the lateral side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that located on the medial side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the ventral side of the body or body part .
a flat 2d plane intersecting an anatomical continuant ,  dividing it into two adjacent portions .
anatomical plane that divides a bilateral body into left and right parts ,  not necessarily of even size .
anatomical margin that is located on the anterior side of a body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the posterior side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the apical side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the basal side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the proximal region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the distal side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the dorsal side of body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the dorso - lateral region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the lateral side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the medial side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the ventral side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the ventro - lateral region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the antero - dorso region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the postero - dorsal region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the antero - ventral region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the postero - ventral region of the body or body part .
an axis that extends from the center of organism to one or other side .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
an anatomical entity that has mass .
an anatomical entity that has no mass .
a one dimensional ,  immaterial anatomical entity .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
a collection of cilia attached to basal cushions and made up of polster cells .
a thick jelly - like layer between the epidermis and gastrodermis .
light - producing cell present in nearly all ctenophores
a specialized adhesive cell found in ctenophores
a conspicuous lobed structure used for feeding ,  characteristic of the lobata  (  \ "sea walnuts \ " ) 
a ctenophore larva
a canal that is associated with a testis and an ovary
ribbon - shaped smooth muscle that resides between the glandular epithelial cells and the basal lamina
a muscle that connects the two tentacle apparatuses
a mineralized cell generated and constantly replaced in the floor of the apical organ .
one of of four nearly identical quadrants organized along the oral - aboral axis .
an ectodermal structure which connects the mouth to the endodermal component of the gut ,  deep inside the animal
a multipolar mesenchymal cell found in the stellate mesenchyme .
a row that is composed of individual ctene plates ,  which are arranged in longitudinal rows parallel to the oral–aboral axis
a groove that runs along the surface of the animal to each of the eight ctene rows
an ectodermal structure emanating from the apical organ along the esophageal axis .
intersects at two points .
