catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate  +  2 h +  .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
an apoprotein is a protein devoid of its characteristic prosthetic group or metal .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
a substance that increases the rate of a reaction without modifying the overall standard gibbs energy change in the reaction .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a protein complex ,  mediated by chaperone molecules that do not form part of the finished complex .
a ligand with two or more separate binding sites that can bind to a single metallic central atom ,  forming a chelate .
a low - molecular - weight ,  non - protein organic compound participating in enzymatic reactions as dissociable acceptor or donor of chemical groups or electrons .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
conjugated protein is a protein that contains a non - peptide component ,  usually in stoichiometric proportion .
a molecular entity that can transfer  ( "donate" )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
a small molecule which increases  ( activator )  or decreases  ( inhibitor )  the activity of an  ( allosteric )  enzyme by binding to the enzyme at the regulatory site  ( which is different from the substrate - binding catalytic site )  .
a region  ( or regions )  that includes all of the sequence elements necessary to encode a functional transcript .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with ions ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms .
catalysis of the geometric or structural changes within one molecule .
any molecule or ion capable of binding to a central metal atom to form coordination complexes .
catalysis of the joining of two substances ,  or two groups within a single molecule ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
elemental activities ,  such as catalysis or binding ,  describing the actions of a gene product at the molecular level .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
the process of covalently altering one or more amino acids in a protein after the protein has been completely translated and released from the ribosome .
a tightly bound ,  specific nonpolypeptide unit in a protein determining and involved in its biological activity .
a biological macromolecule minimally consisting of one polypeptide chain synthesized at the ribosome .
a response to a stimulus that consists of a sequential series of modifications to a set of proteins where the product of one reaction acts catalytically in the following reaction .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
the addition of a carbamoyl group to a protein amino acid .
a stable macromolecular complex composed  ( only )  of two or more polypeptide subunits along with any covalently attached molecules  ( such as lipid anchors or oligosaccharide )  or non - protein prosthetic groups  ( such as nucleotides or metal ions )  .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a protein complex .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a protein complex .
the process of assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure .
the protein modification process in which a glutathione molecule is added to a protein amino acid through a disulfide linkage .
any process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
the transfer of an assembled iron - sulfur cluster from a scaffold protein to an acceptor protein that contributes to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
the process of assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure that results in the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
the modification of a protein amino acid by oxidation .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a protein .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
