an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
the side of an organism that is left of the sagittal plane .
non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions ,  that is demarcated by anatomical lines or points on the external or internal surfaces of anatomical structures .
fiat anatomical region extending a short distance from the boundary of an object inwards .
the side of an organism that is right of the sagittal plane .
sagittal plane that divides bilateral body into equal left and right parts .
a straight line through space ,  intersecting an anatomical entity .
an anatomical axis determined by gravity .
an axis that extends from an internal position to a more external position in the body or body part .
an axis that extends through an organism from head end to opposite end of body or tail .
an axis that extends through an organism or organism part from the part of the organism or organism part attached to a substrate  ( basal )  to the furthest from the attachment  ( apical )  .
an axis that extends from the point of attachment of a structure  ( proximal )  to the  point furthest away from the plane of attachment  ( distal )  .
an axis that is approximately perpendicular to the anterior - posterior axis and that extends through the horizontal plane of the body .
an axis that bisects an organism from left to right sides of body ,  through a sagittal plane .
anatomical plane that divides body into anterior and posterior parts .
anatomical plane that divides bilateral body into dorsal and ventral parts .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and dorsal regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and ventral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and lateral regions of the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and lateral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and dorsal regions of the body or body part .
anatomical region superficially located on the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and ventral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the antero - medial region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the antero - lateral region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the postero - medial region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the postero - lateral region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the dorso - medial region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the ventro - medial region of the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and medial regions of the body or body part .
an anatomical region bounded by a plane perpendicular to an axis through the middle .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure anterior to a transverse plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure posterior to a transverse plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
anatomical side that is located on the apical end of an organism or structure .
anatomical side that is located on the basal end of an organism or structure .
anatomical side that is centrally located on an organism or structure .
on the opposite side .
anatomical side that is distally located on an organism or structure .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and medial regions of the body or body part .
on the same side
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure ventral to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same horizontal plane .
anatomical region that overlaps the dorsal and medial regions of the body or body part .
a 3d region in space without well - defined compartmental boundaries ;  for example ,  the dorsal region of an ectoderm .
anatomical region anteriorly located on the body or body part .
anatomical region posteriorly located on the body or body part .
anatomical region located on the apical end on the body or body part .
anatomical region located basally on the body or body part .
anatomical region centrally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region proximally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region distally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region dorsally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the dorsal and lateral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region laterally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region medially located on the body or body part .
anatomical region ventrally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the ventral and lateral regions of a body or body part .
the region corresponding to the ventral region of the entity ,  towards the midline .
anatomical region peripherally located on the body or body part .
an anatomical axis that extends from the side of the anatomical entity that is closer to an axis  ( adaxial )  to the side that is further from the same axis  ( abaxial )  .
an anatomical axis that extends from the center of the body outwards or externally .
an axis that extends from the animal end of an egg or early embryo to the opposite ,  vegetal end .
anatomical surface that is located on the anterior side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the posterior side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the apical side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the basal side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the proximal side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the distal side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that located on the dorsal side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the same side of an organism or structure .
anatomical surface that located on the lateral side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that located on the medial side of the body or body part .
anatomical surface that is located on the ventral side of the body or body part .
a flat 2d plane intersecting an anatomical continuant ,  dividing it into two adjacent portions .
anatomical plane that divides a bilateral body into left and right parts ,  not necessarily of even size .
anatomical margin that is located on the anterior side of a body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the posterior side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the apical side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the basal side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the proximal region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the distal side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the dorsal side of body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the dorso - lateral region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the lateral side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the medial side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the ventral side of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the ventro - lateral region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the antero - dorso region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the postero - dorsal region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the antero - ventral region of the body or body part .
anatomical margin that is located on the postero - ventral region of the body or body part .
an axis that extends from the center of organism to one or other side .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
a  ribose diphosphate carrying an additional phosphate group at position 5 .
a pyridinium ion obtained by protonation of the ring nitrogen of pyridoxal .
a pyridinium ion obtained by protonation of both nitrogens of pyridoxamine .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mycoplasma genitalium .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 27 - carbon  ( cholestane )  skeleton .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 19 - carbon  ( androstane )  skeleton .
an icosanoid anion arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid function of any hydroxyicosatetraenoic acid .
an icosanoid anion arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid function of any oxoicosatetraenoic acid .
an unsaturated fatty acid anion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group of any octadecanoid .
an unsaturated fatty acid anion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group of any hydroxyoctadecadienoic acid .
an octadecanoid anion anion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group of any hydroperoxyoctadecadienoic acid .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid anion carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a class of carbonyl compound encompassing dicarboxylic acids and any derivatives obtained by substitution of either one or both of the carboxy hydrogens .
a molecular entity that can undergo reduction by the gain of hydrogen atom ( s )  .
any member of the class of benzoquinones that is 1 , 4 - benzoquinone or its c - substituted derivatives .
any quinone in which one or more of the carbons making up the quinone moiety is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a carbohydrate acid derivative anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy groups of hyaluronic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid containing 20 carbons and 4 double bonds .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid containing 22 carbons and 6 double bonds .
a reagent that lightens or whitens a substrate through chemical reaction .
a class of lipoproteins with a density between that of low - density and very - low - density lipoproteins .
a pyridinemonocarboxylate obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any pyridoxic acid .
an l - alpha - amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - lysine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an acylcholine obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of hexadecanoic acid with the hydroxy group of choline .
a  hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion which is obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of homovanillic acid .
a hode ( 1 -  )  that is the conjugate base of 9 - hode ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
abbreviation for nicotinamide - adenine dinucleotide when its oxidation state is unknown or unspecified .
a coenzyme that may be nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  .
a coenzyme that may be nadh or nadph .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to r ,  which can represent hydrogens ,  a carbon chain ,  or other groups .
any phenol carrying an additional methoxy substituent at the ortho - position .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of homocysteine at the amino group ,  the carboxy group ,  or the side - chain amino group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of homocysteine by a heteroatom .
an organic group derived from any 3 - oxo - delta ( 4 )  - steroid .
an atom of an element that exhibits properties that are between those of metals and nonmetals ,  or that has a mixture of them .
a bronsted acid derived from one or more inorganic compounds .
any c21 - steroid carrying a hydroxy substituent at the 17alpha - position .
an apoprotein is a protein devoid of its characteristic prosthetic group or metal .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
an n - acylsphingoid obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of any fatty acid with the amino group of any dihydrosphingoid base .
an alpha - oxyketone that has a hydroxy group as the alpha - oxy moiety .
a carboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any retinoid carboxy group .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a  - ch2  ( methylene )  group .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a carbon bearing two organyl groups .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with a primary amine ;  formula rc ( =o ) nhr ( 1 )  .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups of any monosaccharide 1 - phosphate .this compound class represents generic and unspecified sugar 1 - phosphates .
any saturated fatty acid containing 4 carbons .
a primary ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the amino group of l - tyrosinal .
an s - adenosyl - l - methionine zwitterion that has s - configuration ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a purine ribonucleoside that is a purine derivative attached to a beta - d - ribofuranosyl residue at position 9 via a glycosidic  ( n - glycosyl )  linkage .
an organic anion arising from deprotonation of the hydroxy group of an enol .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
a phosphatidylinositol where r1 can be an alkyl or an acyl chain and 2r2 is an acyl chain .
an iminium ion obtained by protonation of the imino group of 1 - piperideine ;  major microspecies at ph 7 .3 .
a peptide hormone which consists of two polypeptide chains ,  a -  and b -  chains which are linked together by disulfide bonds .
a phosphatidylinositol anion where the inositol is either not phosphorylated or phosphorylated at position 4 and / or position 5 ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a phosphatidylinositol anion where the inositol is phosphorylated at position 3 and either phosphorylated or not at position 4 and / or position 5 ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any agent that induces nausea and vomiting .
a molecular entity that can transfer an electron to another molecular entity .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from hydrogen sulfide .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
a thiol comprising a panthothenate unit in phosphoric anhydride linkage with a 3' , 5' - adenosine diphosphate unit ;  and an aminoethanethiol unit .
a choline that is the parent compound of the cholines class ,  consisting of ethanolamine having three methyl substituents attached to the amino function .
actylcholine is an ester of acetic acid and choline ,  which acts as a neurotransmitter .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is propanoic acid with an amino group at position 2 and a sulfanyl group at position 3 .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of pyruvic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a simple monocarboxylic acid containing two carbons .
an oxygen hydride consisting of an oxygen atom that is covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
a sulfonium compound that is the s - adenosyl derivative of l - methionine .
an adenosine 5' - phosphate in which the 5' - phosphate is a triphosphate group .
the simplest  ( and the only achiral )  proteinogenic amino acid ,  with a hydrogen atom as its side chain .
a cyclic tetrapyrrole that consists of porphyrin bearing four methyl substituents at positions 3 ,  8 ,  13 and 17 ,  two vinyl substituents at positions 7 and 12 and two 2 - carboxyethyl substituents at positions 2 and 18 .
prostaglandin f2alpha in which the hydroxy group at position 9 has been oxidised to the corresponding ketone .
a prostaglandins falpha that is prosta - 5 , 13 - dien - 1 - oic acid substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 9 ,  11 and 15 .
a peptide zwitterion obtained from the tranfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group of any tripeptide .
a n - alkylglycine that is the n - methyl derivative of glycine .
a form of tetrahydrofolate that acts as a donor of formyl groups in anabolism .
aldehydic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h ,  n  > = 2 )  and their intramolecular hemiacetals .
any alpha - amino acid having l - configuration at the alpha - carbon .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of formic acid .
a straight - chain ,  sixteen - carbon ,  saturated long - chain fatty acid .
any n - acyl - amino acid in which the amino acid moiety has d configuration .
a d - alpha - amino acid that is the d - isomer of arginine .
a peptide containing ten or more amino acid residues .
a long - chain fatty acid that is a c20 ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid having four  ( z )  - double bonds at positions 5 ,  8 ,  11 and 14 .
any 3 - hydroxy steroid whose skeleton is closely related to cholestan - 3 - ol  ( additional carbon atoms may be present in the side chain )  .
an amino sulfonic acid that is the 2 - amino derivative of ethanesulfonic acid .
a fatty acid with a chain length ranging from c13 to c22 .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having d - configuration .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity with a polymeric structure comprised of a linear sequence of 13 or more nucleotide residues .
an optically active form of lactate having  ( r )  - configuration .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having l - configuration .
a purine ribonucleoside 5' - monophosphate having adenine as the nucleobase .
an aminopyrimidine that is pyrimidin - 2 - one having the amino group located at position 4 .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
a cholestanoid consisting of cholestane having a double bond at the 5 , 6 - position as well as a 3beta - hydroxy group .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a sulfur hydride consisting of a single sulfur atom bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
a mucopolysaccharide composed of repeating beta - d - glucopyranuronosyl -  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - n - acetylgalactosaminyl units .
a sulfur oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of both oh groups of sulfuric acid .
a 2 - aminopurine carrying a 6 - oxo substituent .
an inorganic peroxide consisting of two hydroxy groups joined by a covalent oxygen - oxygen single bond .
a lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or di - ester .
the d - enantiomer of proline .
any hexose - 1 - phosphate which has d configuration at position 5 and alpha - configuration at the anomeric centre .
a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of adenine attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta - n ( 9 )  - glycosidic bond .
a mucopolysaccharide composed of n - acetylglucosamine and glucuronic acid subunits .
an optically active form of cysteine having d - configuration .
compounds having the structure rsr  ( r = / = h )  .
any benzoquinone derived from 2 , 3 - dimethoxy - 5 - methylbenzoquinone ;  one of a group of naturally occurring homologues .
a sphing - 4 - enine in which the double bond is trans .
an optically active form of threonine having d - configuration .
a monohydroxypyridine that is pyridine substituted by a hydroxy group at position 3 ,  an aminomethyl group at position 4 ,  a hydroxymethyl group at position 5 and a methyl group at position 2 .
a member of the class of  phosphocholines that is the chloine ester of cdp .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of propionic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 .
an l - alpha - amino acid that is the l - isomer of arginine .
the 17beta - isomer of estradiol .
the reduced form of nadp +  ;  used in anabolic reactions ,  such as lipid and nucleic acid synthesis ,  which require nadph as a reducing agent .
a nitrogen oxide which is a free radical ,  each molecule of which consists of one nitrogen and one oxygen atom .
a naturally occurring polypeptide synthesized at the ribosome .
a 2 - aminooctadecane - 1 , 3 - diol having  ( 2s , 3r )  - configuration .
a 20 - oxo steroid that is pregn - 5 - ene substituted by a beta - hydroxy group at position 3 and an oxo group at position 20 .
the l - enantiomer of methionine .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
an optically active form of lactate having  ( s )  - configuration .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
an organic sulfide that is the s - adenosyl derivative of l - homocysteine .
a ribosyl or deoxyribosyl derivative of a pyrimidine or purine base in which c - 5 of the ribose ring is mono -  ,  di -  ,  tri -  or tetra - phosphorylated .
the parent compound of the 6 - aminopurines ,  composed of a purine having an amino group at c - 6 .
a six - carbon aromatic annulene in which each carbon atom donates one of its two 2p electrons into a delocalised pi system .
a phosphatidylinositol in which the inositol moiety is the 1d - myo isomer and the phosphatidyl group is located at its position 1 .
a purine ribonucleoside 5' - diphosphate having adenine as the nucleobase .
an aminoalkylindole consisting of indole having a 2 - aminoethyl group at the 3 - position .
a member of the class of  acetamides that is acetamide in which one of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen atom is replaced by a 2 -  ( 5 - methoxy - 1h - indol - 3 - yl ) ethyl group .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a methylthio substituent at position 4 .
the d - enantiomer of the alpha - amino acid lysine .
a tripeptide compound consisting of glutamic acid attached via its side chain to the n - terminus of cysteinylglycine .
an optically active form of threonine having l - configuration .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of 6 - phospho - d - gluconic acid .
a gamma - amino acid that is butanoic acid with the amino substituent located at c - 4 .
an optically active form of methionine having d - configuration .
the n ( 6 )  -  ( 1 , 3 - dicarboxypropan - 1 - yl )  derivative of l - lysine .
a naturally - occurring beta - amino acid comprising propionic acid with the amino group in the 3 - position .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of 1 - piperideine - 6 - carboxylic acid .
a ribose in which the chiral carbon atom furthest away from the aldehyde group  ( c4' )  has the same configuration as in d - glyceraldehyde .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
a sterol ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid with the 3 - hydroxy group of cholesterol .
a c21 - steroid hormone in which a pregnane skeleton carries oxo substituents at positions 3 and 20 and is unsaturated at c ( 4 )  - c ( 5 )  .
an alpha - amino acid consisting of lysine having an oxo group in place of the side - chain amino group .
a compound in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: r2c=o  ( neither r may be h )  .
a compound in which a carbohydrate component is covalently bound to a protein component .
a derivative of alpha - d - ribose having a phosphate group at the 5 - position and a diphosphate at the 1 - position .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexanoic acid  ( also known as caproic acid )  .
a 2 - oxo aldehyde derived from propanal .
a purine ribonucleoside 5' - monophosphate having hypoxanthine as the nucleobase .
pyrrolidine in which the pro - s hydrogen at position 2 is substituted by a carboxylic acid group .
any 3beta - hydroxy - steroid that contains a double bond between positions 5 and 6 .
a sulfur - containing amino acid consisting of a glycine core with a 2 - mercaptoethyl side - chain .
an aldohexose used as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate .
a pyrimidine ribonucleoside 5' - diphosphate having cytosine as the nucleobase .
a 17alpha - hydroxy steroid that is the 17alpha - hydroxy derivative of progesterone .
the 7h - tautomer of purine .
the conjugate base of propionic acid ;  a key precursor in lipid biosynthesis .
a pyridinecarbaldehyde that is pyridine - 4 - carbaldehyde bearing methyl ,  hydroxy and hydroxymethyl substituents at positions 2 ,  3 and 5 respectively .
a purine ribonucleoside 5' - monophosphate having guanine as the nucleobase .
an androstanoid having 17beta - hydroxy and 3 - oxo groups ,  together with unsaturation at c - 4 - c - 5 . .
an octadecadienoic acid in which the two double bonds are at positions 9 and 12 and have z  ( cis )  stereochemistry .
a sulfur oxoanion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen sulfite  ( h2so3 )  .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid in which the carbon at position 2 has  ( s )  - configuration .
a sulfur - containing amino acid obtained by the oxidation of two cysteine molecules which are then linked via a disulfide bond .
a complex cob ( iii ) alamin in which cobalt is positioned in the centre of a planar corrin tetrapyrrole ring and bound axially to a 5 , 6 - dimethylbenzimidazole moiety and a cyano group .
a compound rc ( =o ) h ,  in which a carbonyl group is bonded to one hydrogen atom and to one r group .
a 3' , 5' - cyclic purine nucleotide having having adenine as the nucleobase .
a molecular entity that can undergo oxidation by the loss of hydrogen atom ( s )  .
a carbohydrate that is an acyclic polyol having the general formula hoch2 [ ch ( oh )  ] nch2oh  ( formally derivable from an aldose by reduction of the carbonyl group )  .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
an optically active form of cysteine having l - configuration .
the simplest member of the class toluenes consisting of a benzene core which bears a single methyl substituent .
any d - aldose having a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a 17alpha - hydroxy - c21 - steroid that is pregn - 4 - ene substituted by oxo groups at positions 3 and 20 and hydroxy groups at positions 11 ,  17 and 21 .
a substance to which an electron may be transferred .
a triol with a structure of propane substituted at positions 1 ,  2 and 3 by hydroxy groups .
a modified amino acid generated by enzymic means from homocysteine and serine .
ceramides  ( n - acyl - sphingoid bases )  are a major subclass of sphingoid base derivatives with an amide - linked fatty acid .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
a compound containing at least one carbon - halogen bond  ( where x is a halogen atom )  .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine substituted at position 3 by a hydroxy group .
any glyceride resulting from the condensation of all three hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
a 2 - amino - 1 - hydroxyoctadecan - 3 - one that has s - configuration .
a mononuclear parent hydride consisting of covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a molecular entity that can transfer  (  \ "donate \ " )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid having  ( 2r )  - configuration .
an optically active form of tyrosine having l - configuration .
a piperidinemonocarboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is located at position c - 2 .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of butyric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a d - galactopyranose 1 - phosphate having alpha - configuration at the anomeric centre .
a thioester that results from the formal condensation of the thiol group of coenzyme a with the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
an l - alpha - amino acid ;  the l - isomer of lysine .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
any polysaccharide containing a substantial proportion of aminomonosaccharide residues .
rna molecules which are essential structural and functional components of ribosomes ,  the subcellular units responsible for protein synthesis .
the phosphate of choline ;  and the parent compound of the phosphocholine family .
any six - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldohexose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketohexose )  .
a biomacromolecule consisting of large numbers of monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
any phosphatidylinositol that is phosphorylated at one or more of the hydroxy groups of inositol .
an alpha - amino acid that is phenylalanine bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 4 on the phenyl ring .
an alpha - amino acid that is glutaric acid bearing a single amino substituent at position 2 .
catechol in which the hydrogen at position 4 is substituted by a 2 - aminoethyl group .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
any nucleoside where the sugar component is d - ribose .
an iodothyronine compound having iodo substituents at the 3 -  ,  3' -  and 5 - positions .
that part of dna or rna that may be involved in pairing .
a member of the class of imidazoles that is 1h - imidazole substituted at position c - 4 by a 2 - aminoethyl group .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  and therefore consisting entirely of hydrogen atoms and saturated carbon atoms .
a vitamin b6 phosphate that is the  phosphoric ester derivative of pyridoxamine .
a phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate in which the two phosphate groups are at c - 4 and c - 5 of the inositol moiety which has the 1d - myo configuration .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of hydrogenphosphate .
sphingosine substituted at the 1 - hydroxy group by a d - glucosyl group and at the 2 - amino group by an acyl group .
a ribosyl or deoxyribosyl derivative of a pyrimidine or purine base in which c - 3 and c - 5 of the ribose ring are engaged in formation of a cyclic mono -  ,  di -  ,  tri -  or tetra - phosphate .
any of a group of glycosaminoglycans with repeating units consisting of variously sulfated beta1 -  > 4 - linked l - iduronyl -  ( alpha1 -  > 3 )  - n - acetyl - d - galactosamine units .
a gluconate having d - configuration .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylacetic acid .
a hete that is icosa - 5 , 8 , 10 , 14 - tetraenoic acid substituted by a hydroxy group at position 12 .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the 5 - methyl - 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid or l - glutamate units .
any aminopurine having the amino substituent at the 2 - position .
any compound having 6 - aminopurine  ( adenine )  as part of its structure .
any n - acylamino acid having l - configuration .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a nitrogen atom ,  thus creating a c - n bond .
an amino acid derivative in which at least one of the hydrogens of the amino group has been replaced by a methyl group .
an n - alkylglycine that is sarcosine and derivatives of sarcosine arising by replacement of the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen by a hydrocarbyl group .
compounds with the general formula rnhc ( =o ) ch3 .
an organic group formed by removing one or more hydroxy groups from an oxoacid that has the general structure rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of an aldonic acid .
an aldonic acid in which at least one of the hydroxy groups has been phosphorylated .
any carbohydrate acid formed by oxidising the aldehyde functional group of an aldose to a carboxylic acid functional group .
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
a univalent group  - cnh2n + 1 derived from an alkane by removal of a hydrogen atom from any carbon atom .
a tocopherol that is chroman - 6 - ol substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 ,  5 ,  7 and 8 and a 4 , 8 , 12 - trimethyltridecyl group at position 2 .
an alcohol containing an amino functional group in addition to the alcohol - defining hydroxy group .
any aldehyde which contains an amino group .
an amino alcohol having two hydroxy functional groups .
any purine having at least one amino substituent .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a substance that opposes oxidation or inhibits reactions brought about by dioxygen or peroxides .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - aspartic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( asparagine ,  lysine ,  methionine ,  threonine and isoleucine )  .
any of a group of compounds ,  both naturally occurring and synthetic ,  that induce cell elongation in plant stems  ( from greek alphaupsilonxialphanuomega ,   \ "to grow \ " )  .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any benzoic acid .
any quinone resulting from the formal oxidation of catechol ,  hydroquinone ,  or their c - substituted derivatives .
any  amino acid  in which the parent hydrocarbon chain has one or more alkyl substituents
the univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of  - oh from the carboxy group of carbamic acid .
organooxygen compounds that are salts or esters of carbonic acid ,  h2co3 .
hydrocarbon carotenoids .
one of a class of tetraterpenoids  ( c40 )  ,  formally derived from the acyclic parent ,  psi , psi - carotene by hydrogenation ,  dehydrogenation ,  cyclization ,  oxidation ,  or combination of these processes .
any member of a group of glycosphingolipids ,  also known as monoglycosylceramides ,  which are important components in animal muscle and nerve cell membranes .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
a quaternary ammonium ion based on the choline ion and its substituted derivatives thereof .
any member of the class of chromanes that is chromane substituted by one or more hydroxy groups .
a low - molecular - weight ,  non - protein organic compound participating in enzymatic reactions as dissociable acceptor or donor of chemical groups or electrons .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a polyol consisting of a cycloalkane containing at least three hydroxy groups ,  each attached to a different ring carbon atom .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of cysteine by a heteroatom .
a 3 , 20 - dioxo steroid having the structure of cortisol but lacking one or more of its hydroxy groups .
an azole that is either one of a pair of heterocyclic organic compounds comprising three carbon atoms and two nitrogen atoms arranged in a ring .
a compound that contains two hydroxy groups ,  generally assumed to be ,  but not necessarily ,  alcoholic .
any terpenoid derived from a diterpene .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
any member of the group of signalling molecules arising from oxidation of the three c20 essential fatty acids  ( efas )  icosapentaenoic acid  ( epa )  ,  arachidonic acid  ( aa )  and dihomo - gamma - linolenic acid  ( dgla )  .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid that is estra - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 )  - triene substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 and 17 .
vitamins like a ,  d ,  e and k that dissolve in fats and are stored in body tissues .
glucocorticoids are a class of steroid hormones that regulate a variety of physiological processes ,  in particular control of the concentration of glucose in blood .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - glutamic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( glutamine ,  proline and arginine )  .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glutamate -  - ammonia ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .2 )  .
any organonitrogen compound derived from the glu - cys - gly tripeptide glutathione .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of glycine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of glycine by a heteroatom .
a glycosyl compound resulting from the attachment of a glycosyl group to a non - acyl group ro -  ,  rs -  ,  rse -  ,  etc .
a glycosphingolipid is a glycolipid that is a carbohydrate - containing derivative of a sphingoid or ceramide .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
any organonitrogen compound containing a carbamimidamido  ( guanidino )  group .
any non - proteinogenic amino acid carrying at least one halo group .
a substance used to destroy plant pests .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
a heterodetic cyclic peptide is a peptide consisting only of amino - acid residues ,  but in which the linkages forming the ring are not solely peptide bonds ;  one or more is an isopeptide ,  disulfide ,  ester ,  or other bond .
originally referring to an endogenous compound that is formed in specialized organ or group of cells and carried to another organ or group of cells ,  in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory function ,  the term is now commonly used to include non - endogenous ,  semi - synthetic and fully synthetic analogues of such compounds .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
mono - hydroperoxy  ( e ) icosatetraenoic acids  ( hpetes )  are the primary products of lipoxygenase - catalysed oxygenation of arachidonic acid .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
any fatty acid carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a non - proteinogenic alpha - amino acid bearing one or more hydroxy groups at unspecified positions .
any carboxylic acid with at least one hydroxy group .
a proline derivative that is proline substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any member of the class of pyridines with at least one hydroxy substituent .
a chlorine oxoacid with formula hocl ;  a weak ,  unstable acid ,  it is the active form of chlorine in water .
a five - membered organic heterocycle containing two nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 ,  or any of its derivatives ;  compounds containing an imidazole skeleton .
an  indol - 3 - yl carboxylic acid in which the carboxylic acid specified is acetic acid .
any indolyl carboxylic acid carrying an indol - 3 - yl or substituted indol - 3 - yl group .
any compound containing an indole skeleton .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
compounds of structure roor' in which r and r' are inorganic groups .
any cyclohexane - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - hexol .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill members of the class insecta .
chemical element with atomic number 53 .
an amino acid containing at least one iodo substituent .
an  iodoamino acid in which the amino acid specified is  thyronine .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any lipid formally derived from isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  ,  the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule .
any compound that has an aldehydic and ketonic group in the same molecule .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of lactic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isobutyl group .
a diamino acid that is caproic  ( hexanoic )  acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 6 .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - lysine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - lysine by a heteroatom .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
compounds containing a benzene skeleton substituted with one methoxy group .
any member of the class of pyridines that carries at least one methyl substituent .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the n - methylated 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid or l - glutamate units .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
a group of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by ethylene group   (  - ch2 - ch2 -  )  .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
an endogenous compound that is used to transmit information across the synapse between a neuron and another cell .
any glycosphingolipid containing unsubstituted glycosyl moieties .
abbreviation for nicotinamide - adenine dinucleotide phosphate when its oxidation state is unknown or unspecified .
a coenzyme that may be nad or nadp .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity that is a nucleoside in which one or more of the sugar hydroxy groups has been converted into a mono -  or poly - phosphate .
a long - chain ,  unsaturated fatty acid anion formed by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any octadecadienoic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any straight - chain ,  c18 polyunsaturated fatty acid having two c=c double bonds .
a peptide containing a relatively small number of amino acids .
a family of polyunsaturated fatty acids that have in common a final carbon - carbon double bond in the omega - 3 position ,  i .e . ,  the third bond from the methyl end of the fatty acid .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an organooxygen compound with formula ror ,  where r is not hydrogen .
compounds of the general formula so3hor where r is an organyl group
an  alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
an organophosphorus compound is formally a compound containing at least one carbon - phosphorus bond ,  but the term is often extended to include esters and thioesters .
a solute used by a cell under water stress to maintain cell volume .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
any compound that has an aldehydic or ketonic group as well as a carboxylic acid group in the same molecule .
any fatty acid anion containing at least one c - c unsaturated bond ;  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
a quinone in which the two oxo groups of the quinone are located para to each other on the 6 - membered quinonoid ring .
a five - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldopentose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketopentose )  .
any peptide with hormonal activity in animals ,  whether endocrine ,  neuroendocrine ,  or paracrine .
compounds of structure roor' .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
any monocarboxylic acid that is phenylacetic acid or its substituted derivatives .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of alanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of phenylalanine  by a heteroatom .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom .
an endogenous molecular entity that results in a colour of an organism as the consequence of the selective absorption of light .
any member of the class of piperidines in which one of the carbons of the piperidine ring is substituted by a carboxy group .
a chemical ,  natural or artificial ,  that can affect the rate of growth of a plant .
any amino acid whose side chain is capable of forming one or more hydrogen bonds .
a compound that contains two or more hydroxy groups .
members of the class of phenols that contain 2 or more benzene rings each of which is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any fatty acid containing more than one double bond .
natural pigments containing a fundamental skeleton of four pyrrole nuclei united through the alpha - positions by four methine groups to form a macrocyclic structure .
a quinone substituted by a polyprenyl - derived side - chain .
an alpha - amino acid that is pyrrolidine bearing a carboxy substituent at position 2 .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of proline at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of proline by a heteroatom .
an aldehyde based on a propanal skeleton and its derivatives .
naturally occurring compounds derived from the parent c20 acid ,  prostanoic acid .
the family of natural prostaglandins and prostaglandin - like compounds including prostacyclins and thromboxanes .
a tightly bound ,  specific nonpolypeptide unit in a protein determining and involved in its biological activity .
a metalloprotoporphyrin in which the four pyrrole nitrogens of the protoporphyrin moiety are coordinated to iron .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from purine .
any nucleotide that has a purine nucleobase .
a ribonucleoside that has a purine moiety as the nucleobase  ( the r group in the illustration )  .
any ribonucleotide that has a purine nucleobase .
a class of imidazopyrimidines that consists of purine and its substituted derivatives .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is attached to a pyridine  ( or substituted pyridine )  ring .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a pyridine skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from pyrimidine .
a molecular entity possessing an unpaired electron .
molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
a retinoid consisting of 3 , 7 - dimethylnona - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - tetraenoic acid substituted at position 9 by a 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - en - 1 - yl group  ( geometry of the four exocyclic double bonds is not specified )  .
oxygenated derivatives of 3 , 7 - dimethyl - 1 -  ( 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - enyl ) nona - 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 - tetraene and derivatives thereof .
any fatty acid containing no carbon to carbon multiple bonds .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from 3 - phosphoglycerate  ( i .e .
an aliphatic monocarboxylic acid with a chain length of less than c6 .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
a 2 - aminooctadecene - 1 , 3 - diol having  ( 2s , 3r )  - configuration .
sphingolipids are a complex family of compounds that share a common structural feature ,  a sphingoid base backbone .
a sphingenine in which the c=c double bond is located at the 4 - position .
any steroid that acts as hormone .
an ester of an alcohol and sulfuric acid .
salts and esters of sulfuric acid
any sulfur molecular entity that involves either covalently bonded or anionic sulfur .
a sulfur oxoacid that consists of two oxo and two hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central sulfur atom .
any isoprenoid that is a natural product or related compound formally derived from isoprene units .
a tertiary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has three other carbon atoms attached to it .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid units .
any oxacycle having an oxolane  ( tetrahydrofuran )  skeleton .
a natural pigment containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
any terpenoid derived from a tetraterpene .
an ester in which one or both oxygens of an ester group have been replaced by divalent sulfur .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 1 - hydroxyethyl group .
a collective name for a group of closely related lipids that contain a chroman - 6 - ol nucleus substituted at position 2 by a methyl group and by a saturated hydrocarbon chain consisting of three isoprenoid units .
any member of the class of benzenes that is a substituted benzene in which the substituents include one  ( and only one )  methyl group .
poisonous substance produced by a biological organism such as a microbe ,  animal or plant .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
an oxoacid containing three carboxy groups .
a chemical compound containing three hydroxy groups .
tryptamine and its substitution derivatives .
a univalent carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
any fatty acid containing at least one c=c or c#c bond .
an oxopurine that is the final oxidation product of purine metabolism .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isopropyl group .
a fatty acid which has a chain length greater than c22 .
vitamin d is a group of fat - soluble prohormones ,  which can be obtained from sun exposure ,  food and supplements .
a neutral compound having formal unit electrical charges of opposite sign on non - adjacent atoms .
an n - acyl - amino acid that is a form of the water - soluble vitamin b9 .
a pyrimidine that is a derivative of cytosine ,  having a methyl group at the 5 - position .
an alpha - amino acid that is propanoic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a 1h - imidazol - 4 - yl group at position 3 .
a cobalt group element atom that has atomic number 27 .
any aldehyde having an oxo substituent at the 2 - position .
a d - galactopyranose having beta - configuration at the anomeric centre .
a surfactant  ( or a mixture containing one or more surfactants )  having cleaning properties in dilute solutions .
a member of the class of indole - 3 - acetic acids that is  indole - 3 - acetic acid substituted by a hydroxy group at c - 5 .
an aromatic amino acid that is alanine in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a phenyl group .
d - galactopyranose having alpha - configuration at the anomeric centre .
a polydisperse ,  highly branched glucan composed of chains of d - glucopyranose residues in alpha ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic linkage ,  joined together by alpha ( 1 -  > 6 )  glycosidic linkages .
an aldohexose that is the c - 4 epimer of glucose .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a carbamoyl substituent at position 4 .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - lactic acid .
an optically active form of tyrosine having d - configuration .
a one - carbon compound that is ammonia in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a carboxy group .
a deoxycortisol that is 17xi - pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione substituted by a beta - hydroxy group at position 11 and an alpha - hydroxy group at position 17 .
any member of the phosphoinositide family of compounds ,  of which seven occur naturally .
a primary amino compound that is the 5 - hydroxy derivative of tryptamine .
a linear polysaccharide in which the backbone consists of a variably sulfated repeating disaccharide unit .
the conjugate base of a fatty acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of the corresponding fatty acid .
any glycerophosphoinositol having one phosphatidyl group esterified to one of the hydroxy groups of inositol .
the r - enantiomer of adrenaline .it is a hormone secreted by the adrenal glands resulting in the 'fight - or - flight' response .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid .
an alpha - amino acid that is glycine in which the alpha - is substituted by a 3 - guanidinopropyl group .
a divalent metal cation in which the metal is manganese .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from potassium .
an organosulfur compound in which a thiol group ,   - sh ,  is attached to a carbon atom of any aliphatic or aromatic moiety .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
the organophosphate oxoanion formed from choline by removal of two protons from the phosphate group .
an inoganic sodium salt with formula with formula naaso2 .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of d - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that is the conjugate base of glutamate ( 1 -  )  .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of the both the carboxy groups of l - glutamic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of acetic acid .
an octadecadienoate with cis -  double bonds at the 9 -  and 12 -  positions ;  the conjugate base of linoleic acid .
an alkane that is propane substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
a heme is any tetrapyrrolic chelate of iron .
an gamma - amino acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
the amino acid zwitterion formed from thyroxine by transfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group .
a nucleoside triphosphate ( 4 -  )  obtained by global deprotonation of the triphosphate oh groups of atp ;  major species present at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino acid that is glycine substituted at the alpha - position by a 2 - hydroxyethyl group .
an iodothyronine compound having iodo substituents at the 3 -  ,  3' -  ,  5 -  and 5' - positions .
a tyrosine derivative where the phenolic hydrogen of tyrosine is substituted by 4 - hydroxyphenyl .
a monocarboxylic acid that is toluene in which one of the hydrogens of the methyl group has been replaced by a carboxy group .
the simplest carboxylic acid ,  containing a single carbon .
a short - chain saturated fatty acid comprising ethane attached to the carbon of a carboxy group .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid that is butane in which one of the terminal methyl groups has been oxidised to a carboxy group .
a c6 ,  straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
a long - chain fatty acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of arachidonic acid .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of alanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of alanine .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinium .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinium .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of cysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an aromatic amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylalanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of phenylalanine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of glycine ,  arising from protonation of the amino .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glycine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an optically active form of lysinate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of lysinium having l - configuration .
the l - enantiomer of lysinium ( 2 +  )  .
an optically active form of lysinate having d - configuration .
an optically active form of lysinium having d - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of lysinium ( 2 +  )  .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of lysine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of lysine ,  having two cationic amino groups and an anionic carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation obtained by protonation of both amino groups of lysine .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of leucine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of leucine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
the l - enantiomer of  methioninate .
the l - enantiomer of methioninium .
the d - enantiomer of methioninate .
the d - enantiomer of methioninium .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of methionine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate acid of methionine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of glutamine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - arginine ;  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
the l - enantiomer of argininium ( 1 +  )  .
the d - enantiomer of argininium ( 1 +  )  .
an optically active form of tyrosinate having l - configuration .
the l - enantiomer of tyrosinate ( 2 -  )  .
an optically active form of tyrosinium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of tyrosinate ( 1 -  )  having d - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of tyrosinate ( 2 -  )  .
an optically active form of tyrosinium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of tyrosine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of tyrosine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid that is the 2 - keto derivative of propionic acid .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - threonine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
the l - enantiomer of threoninium .
the d - enantiomer of threoninate .
the d - enantiomer of threoninium .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of serine .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of serine .
an optically active form of prolinate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinate having d - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of proline ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of proline ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by a hydrocarbyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a 1 , 1 - diunsubstituted alkanesulfonate that is ethanesulfonate substituted by an amino group at position 2 .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a calcium salt with formula ccao3 .
a gluconic acid having d - configuration .
a benzopyran consisting of a pyran ring having a benzene ring ortho - fused across positions 2 and 3 .
any micronutrient that is an organic compound .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a chromanol that is chroman - 6 - ol which is substituted at position 2 by a methyl group and  ( also at position 2 )  either a saturated or a triply - unsaturated hydrocarbon chain consisting of three isoprenoid units .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
a univalent group formed by removing a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance  ( or active part thereof )  that kills or slows the growth of bacteria .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
a substance used to destroy rodent pests .
an energy - rich substance that can be transformed with release of usable energy .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
an alkaline earth molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkaline earth metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any monosaccharide containing an alcoholic hydroxy group esterified with phosphoric acid .
arylmethyl groups and derivatives formed by substitution: arcr2 -  .
a pnictogen oxoacid which contains phosphorus and oxygen ,  at least one hydrogen atom bound to oxygen ,  and forms an ion by the loss of one or more protons .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
the sulfur oxoanion formed by deprotonation of sulfonic acid .
an organic derivative of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of the sufonate group ( s )  of any organosulfonic acid .
an amino - acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any alpha - amino acid .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
any member of class of 1 , 2 - di - o - acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part  ( usually a mono -  ,  di -  or tri - saccharide )  .
any compound containing an o - diphenol component .
4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) pyrocatechol  [ 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) benzene - 1 , 2 - diol ]  and derivatives formed by substitution .
a catecholamine in which the aminoethyl side - chain is hydroxy - substituted at c - 1 and methylated on nitrogen .
a catecholamine in which c - 1 of the aminoethyl side - chain is hydroxy - substituted .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
any carboxylic acid having a sulfur substituent .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
acyclic and cyclic hydrocarbons having one or more carbon - carbon double bonds ,  apart from the formal ones in aromatic compounds .
acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbons having one or more carbon - carbon double bond .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
any monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a mancude monocyclic hydrocarbon without side chains of the general formula cnhn  ( n is an even number )  or cnhn + 1  ( n is an odd number )  .
a polycyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one non - carbon atom .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing ribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  rna is central to the synthesis of proteins .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
an amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position alpha to the carboxy group .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position beta to the carboxy group .
a non - proteinogenic amino - acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position gamma to the carboxy group .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
any aldonic acid formed by oxidising the aldehyde group of an aldohexose to a carboxylic acid group .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
alkenols ;  the term refers specifically to vinylic alcohols ,  which have the structure hocr'=cr2 .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
conjugated protein is a protein that contains a non - peptide component ,  usually in stoichiometric proportion .
an n - glycosyl compound that has both a nucleobase ,  normally adenine ,  guanine ,  xanthine ,  thymine ,  cytosine or uracil ,  and either a ribose or deoxyribose as functional parents .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
any alcohol in which the alcoholic hydroxy group is attached to a carbon which is itself bonded to an aromatic ring .
an amino acid whose structure includes an aromatic ring .
any primary alcohol in which the alcoholic hydroxy group is attached to a carbon which is itself bonded to an aromatic ring .
any carboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is directly bonded to an aromatic ring .
an amino compound in which the amino group is linked directly to an aromatic system .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
a derivative of the corrin nucleus ,  which contains four reduced or partly reduced pyrrole rings joined in a macrocycle by three =c -  groups and one direct carbon - carbon bond linking alpha positions .
a pentose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
a hexose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
any aldopentose where the open - chain form has all the hydroxy groups on the same side in the fischer projection .
a 3 - oxo delta ( 4 )  - steroid that is testosterone carrying an additional oxo substituent at position 11 .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of serotonin ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
conjugated proteins containing heme as the prosthetic group .
an oxo monocarboxylic acid anion in which the oxo group is located at the 2 - position .
a hydrocarbon of biological origin having carbon skeleton formally derived from isoprene  [ ch2=c ( ch3 ) ch=ch2 ]  .
a c20 terpene .
a c40 terpene .
a substance which lowers the surface tension of the medium in which it is dissolved ,  and / or the interfacial tension with other phases ,  and ,  accordingly ,  is positively adsorbed at the liquid / vapour and / or at other interfaces .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a substance that increases the rate of a reaction without modifying the overall standard gibbs energy change in the reaction .
the zwitterionic form of an amino acid having a negatively charged carboxyl group and a positively charged amino group .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amnio group of serine .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually organyl )  groups .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens bonded to the nitrogen have been replaced with univalent organyl groups .
neutral molecules having charge - separated forms with an onium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
neutral molecules having charge - separated forms with an sulfonium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
cations of structure r2c=n (  +  ) r2 .
a choline ester formed from choline and a carboxylic acid .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
the alpha - stereoisomer of 17 - hydroxy steroid .
a 17 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group at position 17 has a beta - configuration .
any 11 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group at position 11 has beta -  configuration .
a sterol in which the hydroxy group at position 3 has beta -  configuration .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
parent monosaccharides are polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h or polyhydroxy ketones h -  [ choh ] n - c ( =o )  [ choh ] m - h with three or more carbon atoms .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
any glucoside in which the glycoside group is derived from d - glucose .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
a substance that reduces or suppresses inflammation .
an agent capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
a loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system .
compounds of structure rssr in which r and r' are organic groups .
an amino acid zwitterion that is the tautomer of cystine .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates beta - adrenergic receptors .
an agent that causes an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes .
a drug that mimics the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves .
a drug which lowers the blood glucose level .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
any molecular entity that consists of a ring having  ( formally )  the maximum number of noncumulative double bonds .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates alpha - adrenergic receptors .
a heterobicyclic aromatic organic compound comprising a pyrimidine ring fused to an imidazole ring ;  the parent compound of the purines .
the 1h - tautomer of purine .
the 3h - tautomer of purine .
the 9h - tautomer of purine .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
any ether in which the oxygen is attached to at least one aryl substituent .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
an alpha - amino acid that is butyric acid bearing a single amino substituent located at position 2 .
a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
a secondary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has two other carbon atoms attached to it .
any carboxylic acid containing two carboxy groups .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
a xenobiotic  ( greek ,  xenos  \ "foreign \ " ;  bios  \ "life \ " )  is a compound that is foreign to a living organism .
an  antimicrobial agent that destroys fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce .
any member of the group of lipids containing a common glycerol backbone to which at least one fatty acid - derived group is attached .
any fatty acid containing a ring composed of carbon atoms .
any anion of a tricarboxylic acid  formed by deprotonation of at least one carboxy group .
a carboxylic acid anion formed when the carboxy group of a monocarboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
sphinganine ,  its homologs and stereoisomers ,  and the hydroxy and unsaturated derivatives of these compounds .
any monocarboxylic acid which also contains a separate  ( alcoholic or phenolic )  hydroxy substituent .
any monocarboxylic acid having at least one additional oxo functional group .
any carboxylic acid anion containing at least one oxo group .
any monocarboxylic acid having a 2 - oxo substituent .
a steroid ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid with the 3 - hydroxy group of a sterol .
a monosubstitution product of hydrogen peroxide ,  hooh .
monosubstitution products of hydrogen peroxide hooh ,  having the skeleton rooh ,  in which r is any organyl group .
a substance used for its pharmacological action on any aspect of neurotransmitter systems .
any  hydroxy monocarboxylic acid carrying at least two hydroxy groups .
any amino acid carrying two amino groups .
any c22 polyunsaturated fatty acid containing six double bonds .
a family of polyunsaturated fatty acids that have in common a final carbon - carbon double bond in the n - 6 position ,  i .e . ,  the sixth bond from the methyl end of the fatty acid .
a 20 - carbon ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid having four double bonds at unspecified positions .
any icosatetraenoic acid with the double bonds at positions 5 ,  8 ,  10 and 14 .
any icosatetraenoic acid with the double bonds at positions 6 ,  8 ,  11 and 14 .
any monocarboxylic acid anion carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
a drug that stimulates contraction of the myometrium .
a biological macromolecule minimally consisting of one polypeptide chain synthesized at the ribosome .
a piperidinecarboxylate that is the  conjugate base of pipecolic acid .
compounds having a fully conjugated cyclic dione structure ,  such as that of benzoquinones ,  derived from aromatic compounds by conversion of an even number of  - ch= groups into  - c ( =o )  -  groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds  ( polycyclic and heterocyclic analogues are included )  .
a metal -  - protoporphyrin coordination complex .
any monohydroxylated icosanoid having four double bonds .
any icosatetraenoic acid with the double bonds at positions 5 ,  8 ,  11 and 14 .
the glycerol phosphate ester of a phosphocholine .
any glycerophospholipid having the polar alcohol inositol esterified to the phosphate group at the sn - 3 position of the glycerol backbone .
unsaturated c18 fatty acids and skeletally related compounds .
hydroxy - octadecadienoic acids ,  formed in mammalian cells from the corresponding hydroperoxy compounds  ( hpodes )  .
hydroperoxy - octadecadienoic acids ,  formed in mammalian cells by peroxidation of linoleic acid .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
any of the cerebrosides in which the monosaccharide head group is glucose .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
any of a class of steroid hormones that are produced in the adrenal cortex .
any compound having phosphocholine as part of its structure .
a c21 - steroid that is pregnane which contains a double bond between positions 4 and 5 and is substituted by an oxo group at position 3 and by hydroxy groups at the 17alpha and 20 positions .
any hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 3 .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid in which the 3 - hydroxy substituent is in the  beta - position .
a hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 17 .
any hydroxy steroid that in which the steroid skeleton contains a hydroxy substituent at position 20 .
an oxo steroid carrying an oxo group at position 20 .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
a nucleotide is a nucleoside phosphate resulting from the condensation of the 3 or 5 hydroxy group of a nucleoside with phosphoric acid .
an organoiodine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - iodine bond .
a polysaccharide composed of glucose residues .
glycans composed of a single type of monosaccharide residue .
a polyol that contains 6 hydroxy groups .
any of the group of polysaccharides composed of alternating units from uronic acids and glycosamines ,  and commonly partially esterified with sulfuric acid .
a glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are polysaccharides that contain amino sugars .
any of a class of 10 -  - 60 kda glycosaminoglycan sulfates ,  widely distributed in cartilage and other mammalian connective tissues .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the pteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid units .
a d - galactose phosphate that consists of  d - galactopyranose having a single phospho substituent located at the 1 - position .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
a phosphosphingolipid that consists of sphingosine having a phospho group attached at position 1
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
the l - enantiomer of galactopyranose .
a l - galactopyranose with a beta - configuration at the anomeric position .
the pyranose form of galactose .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protein kinases .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protein kinase c  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .13 )  .
any glycerolipid having a phosphate group ester - linked to a terminal carbon of the glycerol backbone .
an organosulfonic acid containing one or more amino groups .
acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbons having four carbon - carbon double bonds .
a carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of at least one oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a hormone that specifically regulates growth .
a plant growth regulator that modulates the formation of stems ,  leaves and flowers ,  as well as the development and ripening of fruit .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates adrenergic receptors .
any agent that acts on an adrenergic receptor or affects the life cycle of an adrenergic transmitter .
a drug used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
a compound composed of two or more pyrrole units .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
any aldehyde with two aldehyde groups .
a drug that has a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output .
a ligand with two or more separate binding sites that can bind to a single metallic central atom ,  forming a chelate .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid .
a hydroxypyridine carrying a single hydroxy substituent .
any member of the class of  pyridines carrying a hydroxymethyl substituent at unspecified position .
any of a class of heterocyclic amines having a saturated five - membered ring .
an alpha - amino acid that is butanoic acid substituted by an amino group at position 2 and a hydroxy group at position 3 .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
any drug used for its actions on cholinergic systems .
any drug that binds to and activates cholinergic receptors .
any drug that binds to and activates a muscarinic cholinergic receptor .
a pyrimidine carrying one or more oxo substituents .
a member of the class of  pyrimidines that is pyrimidine substituted by at least one amino group and its derivatives .
an ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of enzyme acetylcholinesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .7 )  ,  which helps breaking down of acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
any dianion containing at least one carboxy group .
agents that increase calcium influx into calcium channels of excitable tissues .
a membrane transport modulator that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
an alkaloid containing an indole skeleton .
any alkylbenzene that is benzene substituted with one or more methyl groups .
a  monocyclic arene that is benzene substituted with one or more alkyl groups .
protein component on the surface of lipoprotein .
a complex in which one component  ( the host )  forms a cavity or ,  in the case of a crystal ,  a crystal lattice containing spaces in the shape of long tunnels or channels in which molecular entities of a second chemical species  ( the guest )  are located .
inclusion compound in which the guest molecule is in a cage formed by the host molecule or by a lattice of host molecules .
a class of lipoproteins of small size  ( 4 - 13 nm )  and dense  ( greater than 1 .063 g / ml )  particles .
a class of lipoproteins of small size  ( 18 - 25 nm )  and low density  ( 1 .019 - 1 .063 g / ml )  particles with a core composed mainly of cholesterol esters and smaller amounts of triglycerides .
a class of lipoproteins of large size  ( 30 - 80 nm )  ,  very low density  ( 0 .93 - 1 .006 g / ml )  particles with a core composed mainly of triglycerides and a surface monolayer of phospholipids and cholesterol into which are imbedded the apolipoproteins b ,  e ,  and c . vldl facilitate the transport of endogenously made triglycerides to extrahepatic tissues .
any magnesium ion that is positively charged .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
any chemical substance that inhibits the life - cycle of an organism .
any saturated fatty acid lacking a side - chain .
a chromanol with a chroman - 6 - ol skeleton that is substituted at position 2 by a saturated or triply - unsaturated hydrocarbon chain consisting of three isoprenoid units .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of phosphoric acid in which one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
guanosine substituted at the purine 8 - position by a hydroxy group .
an organic cation that is the conjugate acid of adenosine 5' - monophosphate  ( amp )  obtained by selective protonation at position n1 on the purine moiety .
the s - enantiomer of adrenaline .
a galactopyranose having d - configuration .
a d - glucoside that is derived by formal reaction of the primary hydroxy group of sphingosine at the anomeric position of  d - glucose .
a hexose that has d - configuration at position 5 .
a dihydroxyphenylacetic acid having the two hydroxy substituents located at the 3 -  and 4 - positions .
an optically active form of lactic acid having  ( r )  - configuration .
an optically active form of lactic acid having  ( s )  - configuration .
a l - galactopyranose with an alpha - configuration at the anomeric center .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of dihydrogenphosphate .
a primary aliphatic amine that is butane substituted by an amino group at position 1 .
a mucopolysaccharide consisting of repeating beta -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked l - iduronyl -  ( alpha1 -  > 3 )  - n - acetyl - d - galactosamine units .
a nucleoside 5' - monophosphate ( 2 -  )  that results from the removal of two protons from the phosphate group of adenosine 5' - monophosphate  ( amp )  .
a nucleoside 5' - diphosphate ( 3 -  )  arising from deprotonation of all three diphosphate oh groups of adenosine 5' - diphosphate  ( adp )  ;  major species present at ph 7 .3 .
an amino aldehyde that is l - tyrosine in which the carboxy group has undergone formal redution to give the corrresponding aldehyde
a ubiquinone having a side chain of 10 isoprenoid units .
in general ,  a mineral is a chemical substance that is normally crystalline formed and has been formed as a result of geological processes .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
an organic anion obtained by removal of at least one proton from any uric acid .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of sarcosine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of sarcosine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an aminodiol composed of any octadecene having hydroxy functional groups at positions 1 and 3 and an amino substituent at position 2 .
a 2 - aminooctadecene - 1 , 3 - diol having its double bond at position 4 .
a 2 - aminooctadec - 4 - ene - 1 , 3 - diol having  ( 2r , 3s )  - configuration .
a  ( 2r , 3s )  - 2 - aminooctadec - 4 - ene - 1 , 3 - diol in which the double bond has e geochemistry .
an aminodiol that is octadecane bearing two hydroxy substituents at positions 1 and 3 as well as an amino substituent at position 2 .
a ribose in which the chiral carbon atom furthest away from the aldehyde group  ( c4' )  has the same configuration as in l - glyceraldehyde .
a cyclic ribose having a 5 - membered tetrahydrofuran ring ;  the predominant  ( c3' - endo )  form of the two cyclic structures  ( the other is the  \ "c2' - endo \ " form ,  having a 6 - membered ring )  adopted by ribose in aqueous solution .
an ribofuranose having l - configuration .
a ribofuranose having d - configuration .
any carboxylic ester where the carboxylic acid component is acetic acid .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to very low density lipoproteins  ( vldl )  .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to low - density lipoproteins  ( ldl )  .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to high - density lipoproteins  ( hdl )  .
triglycerides which are contained in very low density lipoproteins  ( vldl )  .
any ester resulting from the condensation of one or more of the hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
any oxo steroid that has an oxo substituent at position 11 .
any oxo steroid where an oxo substituent is located at position 3 .
anything used in a scientific experiment to indicate the presence of a substance or quality ,  change in a body ,  etc .
a chemical compound that can be excited by light of a specific wavelength and subsequently transfer energy to a chosen reactant .
a phospho sugar that is formally obtained from a hexose .
a 3 - oxo steroid conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
any molecule that contains three amino - acid residues connected by peptide linkages .
an antimicrobial agent that is applied to non - living objects to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity .
compounds of structure rssr' .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
any drug that acts on an alpha - adrenergic receptor .
any of the drugs that act on beta - adrenergic receptors .
a drug used for its effects on dopamine receptors ,  on the life cycle of dopamine ,  or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons .
a role played by a substance that can react readily with ,  and thereby eliminate ,  radicals .
substance which binds to cell receptors normally responding to naturally occurring substances and which produces a response of its own .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
any drug that binds to but does not activate cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists .
any l - alpha - amino acid carrying an n - acyl substituent .
a gluconic acid phosphate having the phosphate group at the 6 - position .
a tetrahydropyridine that is 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydropyridine having a carboxy group at the 2 - position .
an aldehyde in which a formyl group is located on a heteroarene .
a drug used to treat asthma .
a chemical substance that prevents or reduces the probability of conception .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
an agent that binds to and activates excitatory amino acid receptors .
any hormone that is responsible for controlling sexual characteristics and reproductive function .
a sex hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of masculine characteristics in vertebrates by binding to androgen receptors .
a hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of female sex characteristics in mammals by binding to oestrogen receptors .
any protective agent counteracting or neutralizing the action of poisons .
drug that acts on blood and blood - forming organs and those that affect the hemostatic system .
an agent that prevents blood clotting .
synthetic or natural substance which is given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a univalent organyl group obtained by cleaving the bond from c - 2 to the side chain of a proteinogenic amino - acid .
any steroid based on a cholestane skeleton and its derivatives .
any steroid based on an  androstane skeleton and its derivatives .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to lipoproteins .
members of the class of cholestanoid that include polyhydroxy derivatives of cholestane .
agent that dilates the pupil .
drug used to cause constriction of the blood vessels .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
a substance used either in the prevention or facilitation of pregnancy .
a compound in which monosaccharide units are joined by glycosidic linkages .
a product in capsule ,  tablet or liquid form that provide essential nutrients ,  such as a vitamin ,  an essential mineral ,  a protein ,  an herb ,  or similar nutritional substance .
the zwitterion formed from taurine by transfer of a proton from the sulfonyl to the amino group .
a compound that interacts with progesterone receptors in target tissues to bring about effects similar to those of progesterone .
biologically active substance whose activity affects or plays a role in the functioning of the immune system .
a substance that augments ,  stimulates ,  activates ,  potentiates ,  or modulates the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level .
a drug used to treat allergic reactions .
a natural or synthetic analogue of the hormones secreted by the adrenal gland .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role played by a chemical compound to induce direct or indirect dna damage .
a role played by a chemical compound which is known to  induce a process of carcinogenesis  by corrupting  normal cellular pathways ,  leading to the acquistion of tumoral capabilities .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
systems consisting of two or more molecular entities held together by non - covalent interactions .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an organyl group .
a chemical substance which binds to specific hormone receptors activating the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a drug that modulates the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
an  organic molecule that is electrically neutral carrying a positive and a negative charge in one of its major canonical descriptions .
a compound of general formula rc ( =o ) sr' .
a macromolecule composed of units connected by imino  (  - nr -  )  linkages .
a substance ,  such as agonists ,  antagonists ,  degradation or uptake inhibitors ,  depleters ,  precursors ,  and modulators of receptor function ,  used for its pharmacological actions on gabaergic systems .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with the amino group of an amino acid .
any aromatic ether that consists of a benzene skeleton substituted with one or more methoxy groups .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) r ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ketonic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of methanol .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any molecule or ion capable of binding to a central metal atom to form coordination complexes .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
a phosphate mineral with the general formula ca5 ( po4 ) 3x where x = oh ,  f or cl .
a chemical substance that encourages a cell to commence cell division ,  triggering mitosis .
a compound with the general formula r2c=o  ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group .
an oxyketone with the general formula r2c ( =o )   ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group and the oxy and carbonyl groups are bonded to the same carbon atom .
an oxoicosatetraenoic acid having a 5 - oxo group ;  and  ( 6e )  -  ,   ( 8z )  ,   ( 11z )  -  and  ( 14z )  - double bonds .
the stable isotope of copper with relative atomic mass 62 .929601 ,  69 .2 atom percent natural abundance and nuclear spin 3 / 2 .
an organic group that consists of a closed ring .
the biological role played by a material entity when bound by a receptor of the adaptive immune system .
a galactose phosphate compound with undefined anomeric stereochemistry having l - configuration and the phosphate group at the 1 - position .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of lysine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of lysine by a heteroatom .
a polymer composed of repeating ethylamine units .
a halophenol in which the halogen atom is bonded to the carbon atom adjacent to the c - oh group .
the amino acid zwitterion formed from 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine by tranfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group .
a polymer carrying multiple negative charges .
any fatty acid containing at least one c=c double bond .
a macromolecule containing ionic groups .
a 29 - amino acid peptide hormone consisting of his ,  ser ,  gln ,  gly ,  thr ,  phe ,  thr ,  ser ,  asp ,  tyr ,  ser ,  lys ,  tyr ,  leu ,  asp ,  ser ,  arg ,  arg ,  ala ,  gln ,  asp ,  phe ,  val ,  gln ,  trp ,  leu ,  met ,  asn and thr residues joined in sequence .
a monocarboxylic acid that is the 3 - o - methyl ether of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid .
a dialdehyde that is propane substituted by two oxo groups at the terminal carbon atoms respectively .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
tetraanion of coenzyme a .
a ribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion that is the trianion of adenosine 5' - triphosphate arising from deprotonation of three of the four free triphosphate oh groups .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of glycine .
the dicarboxylate anion of protoporphyrin ,  obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups .
a prostaglandin carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of prostaglandin f2alpha ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of sarcosine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
dianion of 10 - formyltetrahydrofolic acid arising from deprotonation of both carboxylic acid functions .
a fatty acid anion with a chain length of c13 to c22 .
anionic form of chondroitin d - glucuronate arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid groups of the repeating units ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - proline in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
the dianion of any alpha - d - hexose 1 - phosphate arising from deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the cationic sphingoid resulting from the protonation of the amino group of sphingosine .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - threonine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of pyridoxamine arising from selective protonation of the primary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
tetraanion of nadph arising from deprotonation of the diphosphate and phosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a cationic sphingoid obtained by protonation of the amino group of sphinganine .
the heptaanion of a 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of l - methionine having a anionic carboxy group and a cationic amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine arising from migration of a proton from the carboxy group to the alpha - amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate base of a nucleoside 5' - phosphate .
the conjugate base of a 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an  ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of tryptamine arising from protonation of the primary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a peptide anion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups and protonation of the glutamyl amino group of glutathione ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of l - threonine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
trianion of nucleoside diiphosphate arising from deprotonation of all three free oh groups of the diphosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of d - methionine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate base of l - saccharopine arising from deprotonation of all three carboxy groups and protonation of the primary and secondary amino groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of beta - alanine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of allysine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate acid of a primary aliphatic amine .
pentaanion of 5 - o - phosphono - alpha - d - ribofuranosyl diphosphate arising from deprotonation of the phosphate and diphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the dianion of a nucleoside monophosphate: major species at ph 7 .3 .
a nucleoside 5' - monophosphate ( 2 -  )  that results from the removal of two protons from the phosphate group of imp ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion of homocysteine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a nucleoside 5' - diphosphate ( 3 -  )  arising from deprotonation of the three triphosphate oh groups of cytidine 5' - diphosphate  ( cdp )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
trianion of nucleoside triphosphate arising from deprotonation of three of the four free triphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a nucleoside 5' - monophosphate ( 2 -  )  that results from the removal of two protons from the phosphate group of gmp .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion where the hydroxy group is placed at position 2  ( alpha to the carboxy group )  and has  ( s )  - stereochemistry ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of 3' , 5' - cyclic amp arising from deprotonation of the free phosphate oh group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a doubly - charged peptide anion arising from deprotonation of the four carboxy groups and protonation of the two amino groups of glutathione disulfide ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a cationic sphingoid that is the conjugate acid of 3 - dehydrosphinganine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion where the hydroxy group is placed at position 2  ( alpha to the carboxy group )  and has  ( r )  - stereochemistry ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - tyrosine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphate oxoanion arising from deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups of alpha - d - galactose 1 - phosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an acyl - coa oxoanion arising from deprotonation of the phosphate and diphosphate oh groups of any acyl - coa ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphate oxoanion arising from deprotonation of the phosphate and diphosphate oh groups of nadp (  +  )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of histamine protonated on the side - chain nitrogen .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of pyridoxamine 5' - phosphate .
the pentaanion of a 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 , 5 - bisphosphate .
the conjugate base of a nucleoside 3' , 5' - cyclic phosphate .
the conjugate base of dermatan sulfate ,  obtained by deprotonation of carboxy and sulfate groups .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - tyrosine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is a trianion arising from deprotonation of phosphate and carboxylic acid functions of 6 - phospho - d - gluconic acid .
conjugate base of cdp - choline ( 1 +  )  arising from deprotonation of the diphosphate function .
an  organophosphate oxoanion that is the dianion of l - galactose 1 - phosphate arising from deprotonation of both oh groups of the phosphate .
an organic anion arising from deprotonation of a cyclic tetrapyrrole compound .
an organic phosphoric acid derivative in which one or more oxygen atoms of the phosphate group ( s )  has been deprotonated .
any acyl coenzyme a thioester in which one or more of the phosphate and / or diphosphate groups has been deprotonated .
any fatty acid anion with a chain length greater than c22 .
any fatty acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a short - chain fatty acid  ( chain length of less than c6 )  .
any fatty acid anion in which there is no c - c unsaturation .
any saturated fatty acid anion lacking a carbon side - chain .
an organic anion of general formula rs ( =o ) 2o (  -  )  where r is an organyl group .
a substance used as an indicator  of a biological state .
any substance capable of eliciting an immune response only when attached to a large carrier such as a protein .
any fatty acid whose skeletal carbon atoms form an unbranched open chain .
a fatty acid anion formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid functional group of a straight - chain fatty acid .
any fatty acid containing anywhere in its structure a ring of atoms .
an insulin that is produced in the pancreas and involved in regulating the metabolism of carbohydrates  ( particularly glucose )  and fats .
a prostanoid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any prostaglandin .
the term used to refer to the carbohydrate portion of n - glycoproteins when attached to a nitrogen from asparagine or arginine side - chains .
any member of the sub - set of polyunsaturated fatty acid for which there is an absolute dietary requirement .
any fatty acid with a chain length of between c6 and c12 .
a fatty acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety of a medium - chain fatty acid .
an  organic anion that is the conjugate base of diamino acid .
any fatty acid containing at least one aldehydic or ketonic group in addition to the carboxylic acid group .
compounds containing one or more phosphoric acid units .
an anion arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid function of any mono - hydroperoxy  ( e ) icosatetraenoic acid  ( hpete ) 
an organophosphate anion resulting from deprotonation of at least one of the acidic hydroxy groups from the triphosphate moiety of a nucleoside triphosphate .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
a zwitterionic tautomer of s - adenosyl - l - methionine arising from shift of the proton from the carboxy group to the amino group .
conjugate base of an l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
a synthetic progestogen .
the conjugate base of any hydroxy fatty acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
a fatty acid anion carrying one or more oxo substituents
zwitterionic form of an l - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of a d - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
a carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
the conjugate base of an n - acyl - d - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of gamma - aminobutyric acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of dopamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
a polymer is a mixture ,  which is composed of macromolecules of different kinds and which may be differentiated by composition ,  length ,  degree of branching etc . .
the zwitterion formed from l - proline by proton transfer from the carboxy group to the ring nitrogen .
a carbohydrate acid derivative anion obtained from dermatan by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid groups of the repeating units ;  the major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate base of sphingosine 1 - phosphate having an anionic phosphate group and a protonated amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ionic polymer is a polymer ,  composed of ionic macromolecules .
a derivative of phosphatidylinositol in which the inositol ring is phosphorylated at three unspecified positions .
a metal cation with a valence of two .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
the anion resulting from the removal of the proton from the carboxylic acid group of 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine .
any hormone produced by the thyroid gland
an anion formed by deprotonation of at least one peptide carboxy group .
dianion of alpha - l - galactose 1 - phosphate arising from deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a l - galactose 1 - phosphate compound having beta - configuration about the anomeric centre .
zwitterionic form of any peptide where ,  in general ,  the amino terminus is positively charged and the carboxy terminus is negatively charged .
an acylglycerophosphocholine resulting from partial hydrolysis of a phosphatidylcholine ,  which removes one of the fatty acyl groups .
the conjugate base of prostaglandin e2 ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any pharmacological or immunological agent that modifies the effect of other agents such as drugs or vaccines while having few if any direct effects when given by itself .
any alpha - amino acid anion in which the parent amino acid has d - configuration .
a racemate is an equimolar mixture of a pair of enantiomers .
a sulfated glycosaminoglycan ,  a linear polymer that consists of the repeating disaccharide   [ 3 )  - beta - gal -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - glcnac -  ( 1 -  >  ]  and containing sulfo groups located at random positions .
a hete having a 5 - hydroxy group and  ( 6e )  -  ,   ( 8z )  -  ,   ( 11z )  -  and  ( 14z )  - double bonds .
a peroxol that is the primary oxygenated product of a polyunsaturated fatty acid .
a nucleoside bisphosphate that has a purine nucleobase .
a nucleoside bisphosphate where sugar of the nucleoside is ribose .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of histone deacetylase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .98 )  .
any compound that has a nucleobase as a part .
a nucleotide having guanine as the base .
a  nucleotide having adenine as the base .
a purine ribonucleotide where the purine is guanine .
a purine riboncleotide where adenine is the purine .
a steroid that has a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton .
a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid consisting of phenylacetic acid having two phenolic hydroxy substituents .
a polymer ,  composed of polyanion macromolecules .
a ribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion arising from global deprotonation of the  triphosphate group of any nucleoside triphosphate .
any organic molecular entity derived from a fatty acid .
any c20 polyunsaturated fatty acid having four double bonds and at least one oxo group .
zwitterionic form of a polar amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
any donor that can transfer acyl groups between molecular entities .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to at least two hydrogens .
a molecular messenger in which the molecule is specifically involved in transmitting information between cells .
an ammonium ion that is obtained by protonation of the amino group of d - glucosylsphingosine .
the dicarboxylic acid dianion formed from folic acid by loss of a proton from each of the two carboxy groups in the glutamic acid moiety .
the indol - 3 - yl carboxylic acid anion formed by loss of a proton from the carboxy group of  ( 5 - hydroxyindol - 3 - yl ) acetic acid ;  principal microspecies at ph 7 .3
any organophosphate oxoanion that is a negatively charged phospholipid ,  e .g .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of tyrosine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  any substitution of phenyl hydrogens ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of tyrosine by a heteroatom .
a family of nitrogen molecular entities which are highly reactive and derived from nitric oxide  (  .no )  and superoxide  ( o2 .
any additive that enhances the efficiency of fuel .
any compound that is able to prevent damage to the liver .
an ec 1 .2 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group with oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor which interferes with the action of aldehyde oxidase  ( ec 1 .2 .3 .1 )  .
a polyunsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of icosatetraenoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
the carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of an icosanoid ,  formed when the carboxy group is deprotonated .
a ceramide compound formed by the replacement of the glycosidic hydroxy group of a cyclic form of a monosaccharide  ( or derivative )  by a ceramide group .
an icosanoid anion that is the conjugate base of a prostanoid .
an alpha - amino - acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of homoserine .
the chemical role played by a substance that stabilizes an emulsion by increasing its kinetic stability .
a beta - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of beta - alanine .
an agonist that binds to and activates sphingosine 1 - phosphate receptors .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
an organophosphate oxoanion resulting from deprotonation of at least one of the acidic hydroxy groups from the phosphate moiety of a ribonucleoside monophosphate .
an inhibitor that interferes with the process of t - cell proliferation .
a substance that removes electrons from another reactant in a redox reaction .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of alkaline phosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .1 )  .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a monosaccharide .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a hexose .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a pentose .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a carbohydrate acid .
a sulfur - containing amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
a branched - chain amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
an aromatic amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( non - protonated )  .
an iodothyronine whose alpha carboxylic acid group of the tyrosine is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
a substance capable of undergoing rapid and highly exothermic decomposition .
an aralylamino compound which contains one amino group connected to an aromatic ring by a two - carbon chain .
a carboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of a carbohydrate acid derivative .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from an oligosaccharide .
any compound that can be used for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders .
any fatty acid carrying one or more hydroperoxy substituents .
a fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of any hydroperoxy fatty acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
a food additive that is used to change or otherwise control the acidity or alkalinity of foods .
an organic amino compound in which an aminoalkyl group is linked to an arene .
an ec 1 .3 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch - ch group of donor ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of arogenate dehydrogenase  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .43 )  .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of methionine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 2 .1 .2 .*  ( hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glycine hydroxymethyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .1 )  .
an excitatory amino acid agonist which binds to nmda receptors and triggers a response .
a food additive which is added to flour or dough to improve baking quality and / or colour .
any glycine transporter inhibitor that interferes with the action of glycine 1 transporters .
an agonist that binds to and activates glycine receptors
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton that acts as a hormone .
an inorganic cation with a valency of two .
a peptide of 36 - 43 amino acids that is processed from the amyloid precursor protein .
a beta - amyloid that ia a 42 amino acid polypeptide of sequence asp ala glu phe arg his asp ser gly tyr glu val his his gln lys leu val phe phe ala glu asp val gly ser asn lys gly ala ile ile gly leu met val gly gly val val ile ala .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of three .
the role played by a substance in enhancing the appearance or odour of the human body ;  a name given to the substance itself or to a component of it .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
a clathrate complex consisting of a lipid enwrapped in a protein host without covalent binding in such a way that the complex has a hydrophilic outer surface consisting of all the protein and the polar ends of any phospholipids .
any compound that has anti - asthmatic effects .
an  ec 4 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxy - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of arginine decarboxylase  ( ec 4 .1 .1 .19 )  .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of fructose - bisphosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .11 )  .
an agonist at the a1 receptor .
an ec 2 .1 .1 .*  ( methyltransferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cyclopropane fatty acid synthase  ( ec 2 .1 .1 .79 )  .
an ec 2 .1 .1 .*  ( methyltransferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of site - specific dna - methyltransferase  ( adenine - specific )  ,  ec 2 .1 .1 .72 .
a carbohydrate derivative that is any derivative of a polysaccharide .
substances which are added to food in order to prevent decomposition caused by  microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes .
a food preservative which prevents decomposition of food by preventing the growth of fungi or bacteria .
a compound that inhibits the action of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
any substance which is used to neutralise stomach acidity .
an ammonium ion derivative resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen atom of a primary amino compound .
an unsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 5 - hydroxy - 6e , 8z , 11z , 14z - icosatetraenoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a long - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 5 - oxo - ete ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any n - alkylglycine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of alanine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any glycine derivative in which glycine is substituted at position 2 by an alkyl group .
an alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of homocysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a l - alpha - amino acid anion obtained by deprotonation of s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine .
an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any folic acid .
a folate obtained by deprotonation of any tetrahydrofolic acid .
a sulfonium betaine that is a conjugate base of s - adenosyl - l - methionine obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group .
any compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
a molecule that can substitute for a normal nucleobase in nucleic acids .
any 1 , 4 - benzoquinone carrying a single hydroxy substituent .
any monocyclic heteroarene consisting of a five - membered ring containing nitrogen .
any substance that induces the process of apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  in multi - celled organisms .
a hormone agonist that binds to and activates progesterone receptors .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of a transferase  ( ec 2 .
an organic cation that is the conjugate acid of  ( r )  - adrenaline ,  obtained by protonation of the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
benzoquinones with at least one hydroxy substituent .
an amino - acid anion in which the amino group is situated gamma -  to the carboxylate group .
a carbohydrate acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any aldonic acid .
a hode that consists of  ( 10e , 12z )  - octadecadienoic acid with the hydroxy substituent located at position 9 .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
a biomacromolecule composed of carbohydrate residues which is secreted by a microorganism into the surrounding environment .
an agonist at any adenosine receptor .
a mancude heterobicyclic organic group consisting of a benzene ring fused to a pyrrole ring .
a bicyclic organic group that contains both carbon and hetero atoms .
a vitamin d that is calciol or its hydroxylated metabolites calcidiol and calcitriol .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from erythrose 4 - phosphate and phosphoenolpyruvate  ( i .e .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralize the deleterious effects of paracetamol  ( acetaminophen )  .
a compound that causes the contraction of body tissues ,  typically used to reduce bleeding from minor abrasions .
any organic aromatic compound having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a heteroarene ring .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - n bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a ligase  ( ec 6 .* .* .* )  .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - c bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .4 .* .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
any of the group of eight water - soluble vitamins originally thought to be a single compound  ( vitamin b )  that play important roles in cell metabolism .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity that is a fragment of a larger double - stranded dna molecule  ( either naturally occurring or synthetic )  .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate ,  diphosphate and carboxy groups of nicotinic acid - adenine dinucleotide phosphate .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any aromatic amino - acid .
a nicotinic acid dinucleotide that is nadp (  +  )  in which the carboxamide group on the pyridine ring is replaced by a carboxy group .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound .
a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range ,  so contributing to the 'greenhouse effect' .
a compressed gas or liquid with a boiling point lower than room temperature which to used to propel and dispense liquids such as deodorants ,  insecticides ,  paints ,  etc .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
any unsaturated fatty acid anion containing more than one c - c unsaturated bond .
any protective agent that is able to prevent damage to the kidney .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any omega - methyl fatty acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a transferase inhibitor inhibiting the action of transferase of a one - carbon - containing group  ( ec 2 .1 .* .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the transfer of an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the action of a phosphorus - containing group transferase  ( ec 2 .7 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of a lyase  ( ec 4 .* .* .* )  .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - c lyase  ( ec 4 .1 .* .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - n lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - oh group of donors  ( ec 1 .1 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the aldehyde or oxo group of donors  ( ec 1 .2 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - ch group of donors  ( ec 1 .3 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylic ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphoric monoester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .
a nucleobase analogue that is cytosine in which the hydrogen at position 5 is replaced by a hydroxymethyl group .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a glutathione transferase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .18 )  .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any protein - serine / threonine kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any acid - ammonia  ( or amine )  ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .
an ec 6 .4 .*  ( c - c bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylating enzyme  ( ec 6 .4 .1 .
an ec 4 .3 .*  ( c - n lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .
an ec 2 .5 .*  ( transferase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any transferase that transfers an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .
an ec 1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group )  inhibitor that uses nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .
an ec 1 .2 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .2 .3 .
an ec 1 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .
an ec 2 .1 .*  ( c1 - transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any methyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .1 .
an ec 2 .1 .*  ( c1 - transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .
an ec 4 .1 .*  ( c - c lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any carboxy - lyase  ( ec 4 .1 .1 .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in plants ,  the kingdom that include flowering plants ,  conifers and other gymnosperms .
a generic class of anionic phospholipids ,  encompassing phosphorylated derivatives of sphinganine ,  its homologues and stereoisomers ,  as well as the hydroxy and unsaturated derivatives of these compounds .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in the mould ,  aspergillus .
any fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in penicillium .
any human metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in humans .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
a generic class of  phosphosphingolipids ,  encompassing monophosphorylated derivatives of sphinganine ,  its homologues and stereoisomers ,  as well as the hydroxy and unsaturated derivatives of these compounds .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of prostaglandin - e2 9 - reductase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .189 )  .
a food additive that imparts colour to food .
an ec 4 .3 .1 .*  ( ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of histidine ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .3 )  .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
a cationic sphingoid resulting from the protonation of the amino group of l - erythro - sphingosine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a food additive that is used to make or keep fruit or vegetable tissues firm and crisp .
an antioxidant that used as a food additives to help guard against food deterioration .
a propellant that is used to expel foods from an aerosol container .
a polyunsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of docosahexaenoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 3 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 4 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 6 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 16 carbons .
an anionic phospholipid that is the conjugate base of a 1 , 2 - diacylglycero - 3 - phospho - 1 - inositol ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is propanoic acid in which one of the alpha - hydrogens is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
any ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of carboxylesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .1  )  .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
a chromanol that is chromane in which the hydrogen at position 6 is replaced by a hydroxy group .
any metabolite produced by all living cells .
an animal metabolite produced by any member of the phylum nematoda .
a nematode metabolite produced by caenorhabditis elegans .
any organic molecular entity that contains at least one c=c bond .
a long - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexadecanoic acid  ( palmitic acid )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carbon of the carboxy group is directly attached to a c=c or c#c bond .
any inorganic anion with a valency of three .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
a member of the class of monohydroxy - 1 , 4 - benzoquinones that is 2 - hydroxy - 1 , 4 - benzoquinone carrying an additional methyl substituent at position 5 .
a zinc atom in which the nucleus contains 35 neutrons .
an elemental molecular entity in which all of the atoms have atomic number 26 .
a large family of low molecular weight compounds most commonly found in plant crown gall tumours or hairy root tumours produced by parasitic bacteria of the genus agrobacterium .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia galeata .
an animal metabolite produced by arthropods such as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimps and krill .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia magna .
a crustacean metabolite produced by the genus of small planktonic arthropods ,  daphnia
an anionic phospholipid obtained by deprotonation of the phospho groups of any phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an anionic phospholipid obtained by deprotonation of the phospho groups of any phosphatidylinositol trisphosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any opine whose structure is based on the condensation of an amino acid with a carbohydrate or a keto - acid .
a 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate ( 7 -  )  in which the phosphatidyl acyl groups at positions 1 and 2 are specified as stearoyl and arachidonoyl respectively .
a ceramide consisting of an undefined sphingoid base linked to an undefined fatty acid via an amide bond .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
any derivative of a proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or a side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any derivative of a non - proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group or carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any of the 23 alpha - amino acids that are precursors to proteins ,  and are incorporated into proteins during translation .
any amino - acid that is not naturally encoded in the genetic code of any organism .
any derivative of an amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any l - alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from the formal reaction of l - cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - cysteine by a heteroatom .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino function of any sphingoid
any  alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 2 - saturated fatty acid .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - glutamic acid by a heteroatom .
any phospho sugar that is the phosphate derivative of pentose .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human urine samples .
a cationic sphingoid obtained by protonation of the amino group of any 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - dihydroxysphingoid base .
a cationic sphingoid obtained by protonation of the amino group of any 3 - dehydrosphingoid base .
any member of the class of  indoles carrying at least one hydroxy group .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in algae including unicellular organisms like chlorella and diatoms to multicellular organisms like giant kelps and brown algae .
a carbocyclic fatty acid composed of heptanoic acid having a  ( 1s , 2s )  - 2 - octylcyclopentyl substituent at position 7 .
any cosmetic used to lighten the colour of skin by reducing the concentration of melanin .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human blood serum samples .
any substance that inhibits the action of glycine transporters .
any antifungal agent used to prevent or treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
a gluconic acid having l - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the  conjugate base of alpha - aminobutyric acid .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of two of the three diphosphate oh groups of adenosine 5' - diphosphate .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any drug which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of the hydroxy group of 2 - hydroxy - 5 - methylquinone .
an ec 6 .4 .1 .*  ( carboxylase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of pyruvate carboxylase  ( ec 6 .4 .1 .1 )  .
a drug that acts as an antagonist ,  agonist ,  reverse agonist ,  or in some other fashion when interacting with cellular receptors .
a carboxylic acic anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any aromatic carboxylic acid .
the maintenance of the structure and integrity of the mitochondrial genome ;  includes replication and segregation of the mitochondrial chromosome .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination ,  a dna metabolic process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of constituent rnas and proteins to form the small ribosomal subunit .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a fatty acid which has a chain length greater than c22 .
the directed movement of transition metal ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the formation of a double membrane - bounded structure ,  the autophagosome ,  that occurs when a specialized membrane sac ,  called the isolation membrane ,  starts to enclose a portion of the cytoplasm .
the sequence of reactions by which arginine is synthesized from ornithine ,  then cleaved to yield urea and regenerate ornithine .
the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression by monitoring the integrity of specific cell cycle events .
a cell cycle checkpoint that prevents the initiation of nuclear division until dna replication is complete ,  thereby ensuring that progeny inherit a full complement of the genome .
a cell cycle checkpoint that regulates progression through the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclin - dependent protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna segregation by mitosis and the beginning of dna synthesis .
the mitotic cell cycle transition by which a cell in g1 commits to s phase .
any process that regulates transcription such that the target genes are involved in the transition between g1 and s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase ,  following g1 ,  during which dna synthesis takes place as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of dna segregation by mitosis .
the mitotic cell cycle transition by which a cell in g2 commits to m phase .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase and occurs as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of m phase of mitosis and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the cell cycle phase ,  following prophase ,  during which chromosomes become aligned on the equatorial plate of the cell as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase during which chromosomes separate and migrate towards the poles of the spindle the as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase during m phase of mitosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing sulfur ,  comprising cysteine ,  homocysteine ,  methionine and selenocysteine .
catalysis of the reaction: succinate  +  acceptor = fumarate  +  reduced acceptor .
any process that regulates transcription such that the target genes are transcribed as part of the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
a cell cycle process that sets the alignment of mitotic spindle relative to other cellular structures .
an intracellular protein kinase cascade containing at least a mapk ,  a mapkk and a map3k .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleotide ,  any compound consisting of a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose or deoxyribose .
the nonsense - mediated decay pathway for nuclear - transcribed mrnas degrades mrnas in which an amino - acid codon has changed to a nonsense codon ;  this prevents the translation of such mrnas into truncated ,  and potentially harmful ,  proteins .
the initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme map kinase kinase  ( mapkk )  .
the initiation of the activity of the inactive enzyme map kinase  ( mapk )  .
a mapk cascade that contributes to cell wall organization or biogenesis .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a meiotic cell cycle .
the v0 domain of a proton - transporting v - type atpase found in the vacuolar membrane .
the v1 domain of a proton - transporting v - type atpase found in the vacuolar membrane .
the v0 domain of a proton - transporting v - type atpase found in the plasma membrane .
the v1 domain of a proton - transporting v - type atpase found in the plasma membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a chromosome that encodes the nuclear genome and is found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell during the cell cycle phases when the nucleus is intact .
a chromosome found in the cytoplasm .
any of the spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles and are thought to contribute to the forces that separate the poles and position them in relation to the rest of the cell .
the cell cycle phase in higher eukaryotes which follows mitotic prophase and during which the nuclear envelope is disrupted and breaks into membrane vesicles ,  and the spindle microtubules enter the nuclear region .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of prophase i in meiosis ,  and during which the chromosomes first become visible .
the cell cycle phase which follows leptotene during prophase i of meiosis ,  and during which each chromosome pairs with its homolog ;  the two become aligned and crossing over may occur .
the formation of a tri - snrnp complex containing u4 and u6  ( or u4atac and u6atac )  snrnas and u5 snrnas and associated proteins .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a spliceosomal complex ,  a ribonucleoprotein apparatus that catalyzes nuclear mrna splicing via transesterification reactions .
a chromosome found in the mitochondrion of a eukaryotic cell .
the division of a mitochondrion within a cell to form two or more separate mitochondrial compartments .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
progression through the phases of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the most common eukaryotic cell cycle ,  which canonically comprises four successive phases called g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  and m and includes replication of the genome and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase .
the division of a cell nucleus into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei .
a cell cycle process that results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell after mitosis ,  resulting in the separation of the original cell into two daughter cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the component of a vacuolar membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
a ribosome contained within a subcellular membrane - bounded organelle .
the smaller of the two subunits of an organellar ribosome .
the larger of the two subunits of an organellar ribosome .
the resumption of the mitotic cell division cycle by cells that were in a quiescent or other non - dividing state .
a vacuole that is maintained at an acidic ph and which contains degradative enzymes ,  including a wide variety of acid hydrolases .
splicing of rna via a series of two transesterification reactions .
splicing of rna via a series of two transesterification reactions with a bulged adenosine residue from the intron branch point as the initiating nucleophile .
the process of generating multiple mrna molecules from a given set of exons by differential use of exons from the primary transcript ( s )  to form multiple mature mrnas that vary in their exon composition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alternative splicing of nuclear mrnas .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of one or more snrna and multiple protein components to form a ribonucleoprotein complex that is involved in formation of the spliceosome .
splicing of rna via recognition of the folded rna structure that brings the 5' and 3' splice sites into proximity and cleavage of the rna at both the 3' and 5' splice sites by an endonucleolytic mechanism ,  followed by ligation of the exons .
the joining together of exons from one or more primary transcripts of messenger rna  ( mrna )  and the excision of intron sequences ,  via a spliceosomal mechanism ,  so that mrna consisting only of the joined exons is produced .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 36 of histone h3 .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 36 of histone h3 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 36 of histone h3 .
the lipid bilayer surrounding an autophagosome ,  a double - membrane - bounded vesicle in which endogenous cellular material is sequestered .
the autophagic process in which mitochondria are delivered to a type of vacuole and degraded in response to changing cellular conditions .
the selective autophagy process in which a mitochondrion is degraded by macroautophagy .
endonucleolytic cleavage within its2 between the 5 .8s rrna and the lsu - rrna of an rrna molecule originally produced as a tricistronic rrna transcript that contained the small subunit  ( ssu )  rrna ,  the 5 .8s rrna ,  and the large subunit  ( lsu )  rrna ,  in that order ,  from 5' to 3' along the primary transcript .
exonucleolytic digestion of a pre - rrna molecule in the process to generate a mature rrna molecule .
any process involved in the maturation of a precursor 5 .8s ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  molecule into a mature 5 .8s rrna molecule .
any process involved in the maturation of a precursor small subunit  ( ssu )  ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  molecule into a mature ssu - rrna molecule from the pre - rrna molecule originally produced as a tricistronic rrna transcript that contains the small subunit  ( ssu )  rrna ,  5 .8s rrna ,  and the large subunit  ( lsu )  in that order from 5' to 3' along the primary transcript .
any process involved in the maturation of a precursor large subunit  ( lsu )  ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  molecule into a mature lsu - rrna molecule from the pre - rrna molecule originally produced as a tricistronic rrna transcript that contains the small subunit  ( ssu )  rrna ,  5 .8s rrna ,  and large subunit  ( lsu )  in that order from 5' to 3' along the primary transcript .
any process involved in the maturation of an rrna molecule originally produced as part of a tricistronic rrna transcript that contained the small subunit  ( ssu )  rrna ,  the 5 .8s rrna ,  and the large subunit  ( lsu )  rrna ,  in that order ,  from 5' to 3' along the primary transcript .
exonucleolytic digestion of a pre - rrna molecule to generate the mature 3' - end of a 5 .8s rrna molecule derived from an originally tricistronic pre - rrna transcript that contained the small subunit  ( ssu )  rrna ,  the 5 .8s rrna ,  and the large subunit  ( lsu )  rrna in that order from 5' to 3' along the primary transcript .
any phosphodiester bond hydrolysis involved in the conversion of a primary ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  transcript into a mature rrna molecule .
any process involved in the maturation of a precursor large subunit  ( lsu )  ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  molecule into a mature lsu - rrna molecule .
any endonucleolytic cleavage involved in the conversion of a primary ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  transcript into a mature rrna molecule .
endonucleolytic cleavage of a pre - rrna molecule originally produced as a tricistronic rrna transcript that contains the small subunit  ( ssu )  rrna ,  the 5 .8s rrna ,  and the large subunit  ( lsu )  rrna ,  in that order ,  from 5' to 3' along the primary transcript .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of a pattern along a line or a point in an embryo .
any process that contributes to the maintenance of proper telomeric length and structure by affecting and monitoring the activity of telomeric proteins ,  the length of telomeric dna and the replication and repair of the dna .
the error - free repair of a double - strand break in dna in which the broken dna molecule is repaired using homologous sequences .
a dna repair process that involves the exchange ,  reciprocal or nonreciprocal ,  of genetic material between the broken dna molecule and a homologous region of dna .
a dna repair process in which that does not require the exchange of genetic material between the broken dna molecule and a homologous region of dna .
synthesis of dna that proceeds from the broken 3' single - strand dna end and uses the homologous intact duplex as the template .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of dna ,  involving the hydrolysis of internal 3' , 5' - phosphodiester bonds in one or two strands of deoxyribonucleotides .
the creation of a single nucleus from multiple nuclei as a result of fusing the lipid bilayers that surround each nuclei .
the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane ,  by the fusion of the plasma membranes of two or more individual cells .
the terminal region of a linear chromosome that includes the telomeric dna repeats and associated proteins .
the end of a linear chromosome ,  required for the integrity and maintenance of the end .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome in the cytoplasm .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome in the nucleus .
a compact and highly condensed form of chromatin .
a highly compacted molecule of dna and associated proteins resulting in a cytologically distinct structure .
a highly compacted molecule of dna and associated proteins resulting in a cytologically distinct nuclear chromosome .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the developmental process in which the size or shape of a cell is generated and organized .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs when relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
the division of the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of a cell and its partitioning into two daughter cells .
either of the ends of a spindle ,  where spindle microtubules are organized ;  usually contains a microtubule organizing center and accessory molecules ,  spindle microtubules and astral microtubules .
a microtubule organizing center formed by a band of gamma - tubulin that is recruited to a circumferential band of f - actin at the midpoint of a cell and which nucleates microtubules from the cell division site at the end of mitosis .
a multiprotein complex composed of gamma - tubulin and other non - tubulin proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nuclear - transcribed mrnas in eukaryotic cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome and occurring in the mitochondrion .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of mrna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome and occurring in the mitochondrion .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome and occurring in the mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catabolism in the mitochondrion of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catabolism in the mitochondrion of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catabolism in the mitochondrion of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome .
the conversion of a primary rna molecule transcribed from a mitochondrial genome into one or more mature rna molecules ;  occurs in the mitochondrion .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an rna molecule transcribed from a mitochondrial genome ;  occurs in the mitochondrion .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific sequence of dna that is part of a regulatory region that controls transcription of that section of the dna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleic acid region that regulates a nucleic acid - based process .
any process involved in the inhibition of progression from anaphase / telophase  ( high mitotic cdk activity )  to g1  ( low mitotic cdk activity )  .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any chromatin organization process that occurs during the lifespan of the cell that results in changes in chromatin structure .
relaying of environmental signals promoting filamentous growth .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skeleton over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the condensation of mesenchymal cells that have been committed to differentiate into chondrocytes .
the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that modulates levels of neurotransmitter .
a quality inhering in a cell's plasma membrane by virtue of a brief fluctuation in the bearer's potential caused by the rapid opening and closing of voltage - gated ion channels .
posttranscriptional addition of a methyl group to either a nucleotide or 2' - o ribose in a polyribonucleotide .
a sodium channel in a cell membrane whose opening is governed by the membrane potential .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving retinoids ,  any member of a class of isoprenoids that contain or are derived from four prenyl groups linked head - to - tail .
blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels .
extracellular matrix components occurring independently or along with elastin .
cell motility due to movement of eukaryotic cilia or bacterial - type flagella or archaeal - type flagella .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ovarian follicle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process leading to the rupture of the follicle ,  releasing the centrally located oocyte into the oviduct .
disruption of theca cell layer releasing follicular fluid and / or the oocyte .
increase in size of primary follicles including oocyte growth and granulosa and / or theca cell proliferation until more than one layer of granulosa cells is present  ( preantral follicle )  .
the developmental growth process in which an oocyte irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an oocyte to attain its fully functional state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
any process in which external signals modulate the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell growth ,  the irreversible increase in size of a cell over time .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a blood vessel over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process of coordinated growth and sprouting of blood vessels giving rise to the organized vascular system .
the differentiation of endothelial cells from progenitor cells during blood vessel development ,  and the de novo formation of blood vessels and tubes .
a process that results in a parallel arrangement of microtubules .
combining with adenosine and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated g - protein ;  promotes the exchange of gdp for gtp on the alpha subunit of a heterotrimeric g - protein complex .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an osteoblast ,  a mesodermal or neural crest cell that gives rise to bone .
a structure found most metazoan nucleoli ,  but not usually found in lower eukaryotes ;  surrounded by the dense fibrillar component ;  the zone of transcription from multiple copies of the pre - rrna genes is in the border region between these two structures .
a structure found in the nucleolus ,  which contains nearly completed preribosomal particles destined for the cytoplasm .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the eye over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the urogenital system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a homeostatic process in which an organism modulates its internal body temperature .
the heat generation process that results in a rise in body temperature above the normal ,  often as a response to infection .
an acute behavioral change resulting from a perceived external threat .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a g protein - coupled receptor .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
cell migration that is accomplished by extension and retraction of a pseudopodium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin assembly or disassembly .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving long - chain fatty acids ,  a long - chain fatty acid is a fatty acid with a chain length between c13 and c22 .
a cellular homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within a cell or between a cell and its external environment .
a gastrulation process in which the initial invagination becomes the anus and the mouth forms second .
the formation of the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm during gastrulation .
the formation of ectoderm during gastrulation .
the formation of the endoderm during gastrulation .
the process that gives rise to the mesoderm .
the process involved in the specification of cell identity .
a process involved in cell fate commitment .
the cell differentiation process that results in commitment of a cell to become part of the mesoderm .
the cell differentiation process that results in commitment of a cell to become part of the endoderm .
the cell differentiation process that results in commitment of a cell to become part of the ectoderm .
the cell fate determination process that results in a cell becoming capable of differentiating autonomously into an endoderm cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway ;  upon specification ,  the cell fate can be reversed .
projection at the leading edge of a crawling cell ;  the protrusions are supported by a microfilament meshwork .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of a simple or complex lipid .
coordinated organization of groups of cells in the plane of an epithelium ,  such that they all orient to similar coordinates .
the morphogenetic process in which the anatomical structures of a polarized epithelium are generated and organized .
the initial developmental process that will lead to the formation of an eye .
the morphogenetic process in which the anatomical structures of the compound eye are generated and organized .
the outer segment of a vertebrate photoreceptor that contains a stack of membrane discs embedded with photoreceptor proteins .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a photoreceptor cell ,  as found in the eye ,  the primary visual organ of most organisms .
the characteristic movement of cells from the dorsal ridge of the neural tube to a variety of locations in a vertebrate embryo .
the formation of mesodermal clusters that are arranged segmentally along the anterior posterior axis of an embryo .
the process in which individual somites establish identity during embryogenesis .
the interaction of two or more cells or tissues that causes them to change their fates and specify the development of an organ .
the process in which the anatomical structures of branches are generated and organized .
the characteristic movement of an immature neuron from germinal zones to specific positions where they will reside as they mature .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a membrane raft ,  a small  ( 10 - 200 nm )  ,  heterogeneous ,  highly dynamic ,  sterol -  and sphingolipid - enriched membrane domains that compartmentalizes cellular processes .
the change in morphology and behavior of a microglial cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of cells of the immune system such that the total number of cells of a particular cell type within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of neutrophils such that the total number of neutrophils within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
any apoptotic process in a neutrophil ,  any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
the appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of a cytokine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of production of a cytokine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of production of a cytokine .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the kidney over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mesonephros over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a transition where an epithelial cell loses apical / basolateral polarity ,  severs intercellular adhesive junctions ,  degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell .
the morphogenesis of an embryonic epithelium into a tube - shaped structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the neural plate are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the neural plate over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
the process in which the neural fold is formed .
the last step in the formation of the neural tube ,  where the paired neural folds are brought together and fuse at the dorsal midline .
the process that results in the fusion of a phagosome ,  a vesicle formed by phagocytosis ,  with a lysosome .
the process that results in the return of receptor molecules to an active state and an active cellular location after they have been stimulated by a ligand .
the progression of an endothelial cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs during the differentiation of an endothelial cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds that contain selenium ,  such as selenocysteine .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the liver over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined tissue of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
a tissue homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium within the retina of the eye ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of its own cells or those of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
the directed killing of a target cell by a leukocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
the inner segment of a vertebrate photoreceptor containing mitochondria ,  ribosomes and membranes where opsin molecules are assembled and passed to be part of the outer segment discs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of receptor recycling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of receptor recycling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor recycling .
a membrane projection with related cytoskeletal components at the trailing edge of a cell in the process of migrating or being activated ,  found on the opposite side of the cell from the leading edge or immunological synapse ,  respectively .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into an amino acid in a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
the multiplication or reproduction of endothelial cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of endothelial cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate or extent of endothelial cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of endothelial cell proliferation .
the pronucleus originating from the ovum that is being fertilized .
the pronucleus originating from the spermatozoa that was involved in fertilization .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a postsynaptic membrane ,  the specialized area of membrane facing the presynaptic membrane on the tip of the nerve ending and separated from it by a minute cleft  ( the synaptic cleft )  .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vasculature over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a lymph vessel over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
lymph vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing vessels .
the tube morphogenesis process in which the primitive heart tube loops asymmetrically .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to the extracellular matrix .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate or extent of cell adhesion to the extracellular matrix .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell adhesion to an extracellular matrix .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a neurotransmitter .
direct ossification that occurs within mesenchyme or an accumulation of relatively unspecialized cells .
replacement ossification wherein bone tissue replaces cartilage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
the vesicular release of  dopamine .
an action or movement due to the application of a sudden unexpected stimulus .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to touch .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a receptor binding to extracellular adenosine and transmitting the signal to a heterotrimeric g - protein complex to initiate a change in cell activity .
the reorganization or renovation of existing blood vessels .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the regulation of blood pressure mediated by detection of stimuli and a neurological response .
a slow mechanism of blood pressure regulation that responds to changes in pressure resulting from fluid and salt intake by modulating the quantity of blood in the circulatory system .
the process in which the anatomical structures of epithelia are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of an epithelial sheet are generated and organized .
any process that modulates the extent of heart contraction ,  changing the force with which blood is propelled .
any process that modulates the frequency or rate of heart contraction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sodium ions  ( na +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the extension of new blood vessels from existing vessels into avascular tissues ,  this process includes the specialization of endothelial cells into leading tip and stalk cells ,  proliferation and migration of the endothelial cells and cell adhesion resulting in angiogenic sprout fusion or lumen formation .
the orderly movement of endothelial cells into the extracellular matrix in order to form new blood vessels involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
the multiplication or reproduction of blood vessel endothelial cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population contributing to sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the rate of neuroblast proliferation .
the process of activating or increasing the rate or extent of mesenchymal cell proliferation .
the process in which a chondroblast acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a chondrocyte .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a chondrocyte over time ,  from its commitment to its mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelial cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a glandular epithelial cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a glandular epithelial cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the invagination of the optic vesicle to form two - walled indentations ,  the optic cups ,  that will go on to form the retina .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the somitomeric trunk muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the phosphorylation of adp to atp that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain .
any process that prevents the activation of neuroepithelial cell differentiation .
a process carried out by the nervous system that is required for the proper control of respiratory gaseous exchange .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lens over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the lens are generated and organized .
a behavioral interaction between organisms in which one organism has the intention of inflicting physical damage on another individual .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the biosynthesis of retinoic acid ,  one of the three components that makes up vitamin a .
a structure involved in coupling stereocilia to one another in sensory hair cells there are four morphologically distinct types: tip links ,  horizontal top connectors ,  shaft connectors and ankle links .
a stereocilia link that is formed by a fine filament running more or less vertically upward from the tip of each shorter stereocilium to attach at a higher point on its adjacent taller neighbor .
a cellular process that results in the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a desmosome .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the larva over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein in the cytoplasm .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis in the cytoplasm .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in the cytoplasm .
the orderly movement of a hepatocyte during the development of the liver .
the somatic process allowing for the production of immune receptors whose specificity is not encoded in the germline genomic sequences .
a behavioral response seeking to protect an organism from an a perceived external threat to that organism .
any process that initiates an innate immune response .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a pattern recognition receptor  ( prr )  binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the movement of an immune cell in response to an external stimulus contributing to an inflammatory response .
the movement of an immune cell in response to an external stimulus a part of an immune response .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a hematopoietic progenitor cell ,  a class of cell types including myeloid progenitor cells and lymphoid progenitor cells .
the series of events that restore integrity to damaged tissue that contribute to an inflammatory response .
the series of events leading to removal of necrotic debris that contribute to an inflammatory response .
the series of events leading to growth of connective tissue when loss of tissues that are incapable of regeneration occurs ,  or when fibrinous exudate cannot be adequately cleared that contribute to an inflammatory response .
an immune response taking place in an organ or tissues such as the liver ,  brain ,  mucosa ,  or nervous system tissues .
any process of the immune system that can potentially contribute to an immune response .
any process that initiates an immune response .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of myeloid cells such that the total number of myeloid cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in the morphology or behavior of an astrocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an inflammatory response .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a myeloid leukocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a myeloid cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a macrophage resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a microglial cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a neutrophil resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of an alpha - beta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a gamma - delta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the process in which an antigenically naive t cell acquires the specialized features of an effector ,  regulatory ,  or memory t cell as part of an immune response .
the process in which an antigenically naive alpha - beta t cell acquires the specialized features of an effector ,  regulatory ,  or memory t cell during an immune response .
the process in which an antigenically naive gamma - delta t cell acquires the specialized features of an effector ,  regulatory ,  or memory t cell and contributes to an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature b cell during an immune response ,  resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a myeloid progenitor cell .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a lymphoid progenitor cell .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus contributing to an immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
the appearance of immunoglobulin due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
an immune response taking place in the brain or nervous system .
the formation of nodular inflammatory lesions ,  usually small or granular ,  firm ,  persistent ,  well - structured ,  and containing compactly grouped t lymphocytes and modified phagocytes such as epithelioid cells ,  giant cells ,  and other macrophages .
an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus ,  which can be include any number of t cell or b cell epitopes .
the synthesis or release of any molecular mediator of the immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a leukocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a myeloid leukocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a neutrophil .
a process that directly activates any of the steps required for tolerance ,  a physiologic state in which the immune system does not react destructively against the components of an organism that harbors it or against antigens that are introduced to it .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system whose objective is to provide calibrated responses by an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat ,  over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized hemopoietic precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a leukocyte .
the movement of a leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body as part of an immune response .
the movement of a leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body contributing to an inflammatory response .
inflammation which comprises a rapid ,  short - lived ,  relatively uniform response to acute injury or antigenic challenge and is characterized by accumulations of fluid ,  plasma proteins ,  and granulocytic leukocytes .
an increase in the internal diameter of blood vessels ,  especially arterioles or capillaries ,  usually resulting in a decrease in blood pressure contributing to an acute inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the extent to which blood vessels can be pervaded by fluid contributing to an acute inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the force with which blood travels through the circulatory system that contributes to the acute phase response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction that contributes to the acute phase response .
the synthesis or release of any molecular mediator of the inflammatory response following an inflammatory stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of a cytokine following a inflammatory stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals ,  resulting in an increase in their intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of nitric oxide following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
inflammation of prolonged duration  ( weeks or months )  in which active inflammation ,  tissue destruction ,  and attempts at repair are proceeding simultaneously .
the movement of a monocyte in response to an external stimulus .
the process in which immune receptor genes are diversified through recombination of the germline genetic elements within a single genetic locus .
the somatic process that results in the generation of sequence diversity of t cell receptor genes .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte lineage .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a thrombocyte ,  a nucleated cell found in all vertebrates but mammals involved in hemostasis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of granuloma formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of granuloma formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of granuloma formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of immunoglobulin production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of immunoglobulin production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of immunoglobulin production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a chronic inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a chronic inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a chronic inflammatory response .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as part of a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
the process in which t cell receptor genes are formed through recombination of the germline genetic elements ,  also known as t cell receptor gene segments .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cellular extravasation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cellular extravasation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cellular extravasation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production that contributes to an immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production contributing to an immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production that contributes to an immune response .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a cytoplasmic pattern recognition receptor  ( prr )  binding to one of its physiological ligands .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
the controlled release of a peptide from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an inflammatory response to an antigenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a desmosome .
the pattern specification process that results in the subdivision of an axis or axes in space to define an area or volume in which specific patterns of cell differentiation will take place or in which cells interpret a specific environment .
a developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring .
the developmental process in which the heart is generated and organized .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a process in which force is generated within skeletal muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within voluntary skeletal muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within involuntary skeletal muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a organ system process carried out at the level of a muscle .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the circulatory system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the renal system .
a circulatory system process carried out by the heart .
a process carried out by the organs or tissues of the respiratory system .
a circulatory process that occurs at the level of the vasculature .
renal process that modulates the force with which blood travels through the circulatory system .
the process that modulates the force with which blood travels through the systemic arterial circulatory system .
renal process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of water in the body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glomerular filtration .
the process in which plasma is filtered through the glomerular membrane which consists of capillary endothelial cells ,  the basement membrane ,  and epithelial cells .
the directed movement of water  ( h2o )  by the renal system .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glomerular filtration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glomerular filtration .
the series of events by which an endogenous stimulus is received by a cilium on a cell and converted to a molecular signal contributing to left / right asymmetry .
the process that results in the delineation of a specific region of the lateral mesoderm into the area in which the heart will develop .
the close range interaction between mesoderm and endoderm or ectoderm that causes cells to change their fates and specify the development of the heart .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to heart induction .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from endodermal cells to mesodermal cells .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from endodermal cells to mesodermal cells that contributes to heart induction .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands that contributes to heart induction .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of an extracellular ligand to a notch receptor on the surface of the target cell that contributes to heart induction .
the process that results in the delineation of a specific region of the lateral mesoderm into the area which will form the primary beating heart tube .
the process that results in the delineation of a specific region of the lateral mesoderm into the area which will form the majority of the mesodermal component of the right ventricle ,  arterial pole  ( outflow tract )  and venous pole  ( inflow tract )  .
the establishment of the lateral mesoderm with respect to the left and right halves .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the embryonic heart tube are generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the embryonic heart tube .
the process that gives rise to the embryonic heart tube by the cells of the heart field along a linear axis .
the morphogenetic process in which the heart cone is displaced to the left with respect to the vector of the anterior - posterior axis .
the characteristic movement of a cell from the dorsal ridge of the neural tube towards the heart and that contributes to heart formation .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the outflow tract are generated and organized .
the morphogenetic process in which an epithelial sheet bends along a linear axis ,  contributing to embryonic heart tube formation .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the determination of left / right symmetry .
a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of any member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family binding to a cell surface receptor that contributes to the determination of lateral mesoderm left / right asymmetry .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of animal organ formation .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the endocardium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an endothelium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structure of an endothelium is generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the endocardium is generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cardiac conduction system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of a heart valve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the atrioventricular valve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the ventriculo bulbo valve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the structure of a heart valve is generated and organized .
the process in which the structure of the atrioventricular valve is generated and organized .
the process in which the structure of the ventriculo bulbo valve is generated and organized .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of a heart valve from unspecified parts .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of the atrioventricular valve from unspecified parts .
the progression of a cardiac cushion over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
a transition where a cardiac epithelial cell loses apical / basolateral polarity ,  severs intercellular adhesive junctions ,  degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell that will contribute to the formation of the endocardial cushion .
a transition where an endocardial cushion cell loses apical / basolateral polarity ,  severs intercellular adhesive junctions ,  degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell that will contribute to the formation of a cardiac valve .
a transition where a cardiac epithelial cell loses apical / basolateral polarity ,  severs intercellular adhesive junctions ,  degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell that will contribute to the shaping of the coronary vasculature .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the endocardial cushion is generated and organized .
the progression of a cardiac chamber over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a cardiac chamber is generated and organized .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of a cardiac chamber from unspecified parts .
the process in which the cardiac ventricle is generated and organized .
the process in which the cardiac atrium is generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the trabecular cardiac ventricle muscle are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of cardiac muscle of the atrium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of ventricular cardiac muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cardiac atrium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cardiac ventricle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the bulbus arteriosus over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the bulbus arteriosus is generated and organized .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of the bulbus arteriosus from unspecified parts .
developmental growth that contributes to the shaping of the heart .
the morphogenic growth in which the chambers of the heart expand in size ,  contributing to their shaping .
the developmental growth of cardiac muscle tissue that contributes to the shaping of the heart .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells that contributes to the shaping of a heart valve .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of cell proliferation that contributes to the shaping of a heart valve .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of cell proliferation that contributes to the shaping of a heart valve .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of cell proliferation that contributes to the shaping of a heart valve .
the orderly movement of a neural crest cell from one site to another that will contribute to the morphogenesis of the outflow tract .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of membrane depolarization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the differentiation of a myocardial precursor cell .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the differentiation of a myocardial precursor cell .
the orderly movement of a cardioblast toward the head and laterally to form the heart field .
the orderly movement of a cardiac progenitor cell to form the heart field .
the orderly movement of a myocardial progenitor cell toward the midline to form the heart field .
the orderly movement of an endocardial progenitor cell toward the midline to form the heart field .
the multiplication or reproduction of cardioblasts ,  resulting in the expansion of the population in the heart field .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardioblast proliferation .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an endocardial cushion .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another that will contribute to the formation of an endocardial cushion .
the cell - cell adhesion process of mesenchymal cardiac cushion cells that contributes to the process of cushion shaping .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of the outflow tract .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of a heart valve .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of an endocardial cushion .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of the heart .
the reorganization or renovation of heart tissue that contributes to the maturation of the connection between an atrium and a ventricle .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells that contributes to the reorganization of tissue resulting in the maturation of the atrial ventricular junction .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the reorganization of tissue resulting in the maturation of the atrial ventricular junction .
the enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of a muscle organ or tissue due to an increase in the size of its muscle cells .
the enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of the heart muscle due to an increase in size of cardiac muscle cells without cell division .
the enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of the heart muscle due to an increase in size of cardiac muscle cells without cell division .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a transforming growth factor beta receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the process of heart jogging .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the process of heart jogging .
the orderly movement of a cell of the myocardium from one site to another that will contribute to heart jogging .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  resulting a change in cell state that contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  resulting a change in cell state that contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  resulting a change in cell state that contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of a type b pancreatic cell .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features of a pancreatic a cell .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features that characterize a pancreatic delta cell .
the progression of the heart rudiment over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the heart rudiment are generated and organized .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of the heart rudiment .
the attachment of cardiac progenitor cells to one another that contributes to the formation of the heart rudiment .
the orderly movement of a cell toward the midline that contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
the orderly movement of a cardioblast toward the midline that contributes to the initial appearance of the heart rudiment .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a type b pancreatic cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
the progression of the proepicardium from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the septum transversum from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized structural and / or functional features of a cardiac endothelial cell .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of cilia of epithelial cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of cilia of inner ear epithelial cells ,  resulting the aggregation of otolith seed particles .
any process that modulates the frequency of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an noradrenergic neuron ,  a neuron that secretes noradrenaline .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a noradrenergic neuron over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization that contributes to the self - propelled directed movement of an ameboid cell .
the binding of a cell to the extracellular matrix that contributes to the directed movement of an ameboid cell .
the attachment of one ameboid cell to another that contributes to the establishment of cell polarity that is part of the directed movement of one of the cells .
the binding of a cell to the extracellular matrix that contributes to the directed movement of a mesendodermal cell .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization that contributes to the self - propelled directed movement of a mesendodermal cell .
the attachment of mesendodermal cells to each other that contributes to the establishment of cell polarity that is part of the directed movement of the cells of the mesendoderm .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of polarized cytoskeletal structures that contribute to the cell polarity of a migrating ameboid cell .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of polarized cytoskeletal structures that contribute to the cell polarity of a migrating mesendodermal cell .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization that contributes to the self - propelled directed movement of an ameboid cell taking part in gastrulation .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of polarized cytoskeletal structures that contribute to the cell polarity of a migrating ameboid cell taking part in gastrulation .
the change in form that occurs when an epithelial cell progresses from it initial formation to its mature state ,  contributing to the process of gastrulation .
the change in form that occurs when an epithelial cell progresses from its initial formation to its mature state .
the actin - mediated process that results in the contraction of the apical end of a polarized columnar epithelial cell .
the actin - mediated process that results in the contraction of the apical end of a polarized columnar epithelial cell ,  contributing to the process of gastrulation .
the developmental growth that results in the elongation of a line that defines polarity or symmetry in an anatomical structure .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors signal to modulate cytoskeletal elements and control cell polarity that contributes to axis elongation .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of the optic vesicle from the lateral wall of the forebrain .
the developmental process pertaining to the formation and shaping of the optic vesicle .
the developmental growth that results in the lengthening of the optic vesicle in the posterior direction .
the progression of the retinal pigment epithelium over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the neural retina over time from its initial formation to the mature structure .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another and contributes to the physical shaping or formation of the camera - type eye .
the specification and formation of the apicobasal polarity of an epithelial cell that contributes to the shaping of a camera - type eye .
the process in which a chondroblast acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a chondrocyte that will contribute to the development of a bone .
the process in which the structures of a chondrocyte that will contribute to bone development are generated and organized .
the growth of a chondrocyte ,  where growth contributes to the progression of the chondrocyte over time .
the increase in size or mass of an endochondral bone that contributes to the shaping of the bone .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage that will provide a scaffold for mineralization of endochondral bones as they elongate or grow .
the multiplication or reproduction of chondrocytes in a growing endochondral bone ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the multiplication or reproduction of chondrocytes in a growing endochondral bone ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
the process in which the anatomical structures of growth plate cartilage are generated and organized .
the orderly movement of a chondrocyte from one site to another that contributes to the shaping of growth plate cartilage in an endochondral bone .
the progression of a chondrocyte over time from after its commitment to its mature state where the chondrocyte will contribute to the shaping of an endochondral bone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix and contributes to the shaping of the growth plate cartilage of an endochondral bone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication that contributes to the shaping of the growth plate cartilage .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively and non - covalently with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with chromatin ,  the network of fibers of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that make up the chromosomes of the eukaryotic nucleus during interphase .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with double - stranded dna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific double - stranded genomic dna sequence  ( sometimes referred to as a motif )  within the regulatory region of a gene to modulate transcription .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an rna molecule or a portion thereof .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with messenger rna  ( mrna )  ,  an intermediate molecule between dna and protein .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with monomeric or multimeric forms of actin ,  including actin filaments .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction: gtp  +  h2o = gdp  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: nadh  +  h +   +  acceptor = nad +   +  reduced acceptor .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: acetylcholine  +  h2o = choline  +  acetate .
catalysis of the reaction: citrate = isocitrate .
catalysis of the reaction: adenosine  +  h2o = inosine  +  nh3 .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - oxoglutarate  +  l - alanine = l - glutamate  +  pyruvate .
catalysis of the reaction: an alcohol  +  nadp +  = an aldehyde or a ketone  +  nadph  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
catalysis of the reaction: h2co3 = co2  +  h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 hydrogen peroxide = o2  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 catechol  +  o2 = 2 1 , 2 - benzoquinone  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: udp - n - acetyl - d - glucosamine  +   [  -  > 4 )  - n - acetyl - beta - d - glucosaminyl -  ( 1 -  ]  ( n )  = udp  +   [  -  > 4 )  - n - acetyl - beta - d - glucosaminyl -  ( 1 -  ]  ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: an acylcholine  +  h2o = choline  +  a carboxylic acid anion .
catalysis of the reaction: 4 ferrocytochrome c  +  o2  +  4 h +  = 4 ferricytochrome c  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue  ( e .g .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glucose 6 - phosphate  +  nadp +  = d - glucono - 1 , 5 - lactone 6 - phosphate  +  nadph  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glucopyranose 6 - phosphate  +  h2o = d - glucose  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glucosyl - n - acylsphingosine  +  h2o = d - glucose  +  n - acylsphingosine .
catalysis of the reaction: l - glutamate  +  atp  +  nh ( 3 )  = l - glutamine  +  adp  +  2 h (  +  )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 glutathione  +  nadp +  = glutathione disulfide  +  nadph  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: r - x  +  glutathione = h - x  +  r - s - glutathione .
catalysis of the reaction: gtp = 3' , 5' - cyclic gmp  +  diphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: heme  +  3 donor - h2  +  3 o2 = biliverdin  +  fe2 +   +  co  +  3 acceptor  +  3 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  d - hexose = adp  +  d - hexose 6 - phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 , 5 - bisphosphate  +  h ( 2 ) o = 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 - phosphate  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( r )  - s - lactoylglutathione = glutathione  +  methylglyoxal .
catalysis of the reaction: triacylglycerol  +  h2o = diacylglycerol  +  a carboxylate ,  where the triacylglycerol is part of a lipoprotein .
catalysis of the incorporation of one atom from molecular oxygen into a compound and the reduction of the other atom of oxygen to water .
catalysis of the reaction: peptidyl - glycine  +  ascorbate  +  o2 = peptidyl ( 2 - hydroxyglycine )   +  dehydroascorbate  +  h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: l - arginine  +  n nadph  +  n h +   +  m o2 = citrulline  +  nitric oxide  +  n nadp +  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by creating internal breaks .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' or 5' end .
catalysis of the sequential hydrolytic removal of 5' - nucleotides from the 3' - hydroxy termini of 3' - hydroxy - terminated oligonucleotides .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any o - glycosyl bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal ,  non - reducing beta - d - galactose residues in beta - d - galactosides .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta linkages of n - acetyl - d - glucosamine  ( glcnac )  polymers of chitin and chitodextrins .
catalysis of the reaction: donor  +  hydrogen peroxide = oxidized donor  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 glutathione  +  hydrogen peroxide = oxidized glutathione  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: source of phosphate  +  oxaloacetate = phosphoenolpyruvate  +  co2  +  other reaction products .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 - phospho - d - glycerate  +  atp = 3 - phospho - d - glyceroyl phosphate  +  adp  +  h (  +  )  .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - phospho - d - glycerate = 3 - phospho - d - glycerate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a glycerophospholipid .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - phospho - d - glycerate = phosphoenolpyruvate  +  h2o .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of an amino acid residue in a protein ,  usually according to the reaction: a protein  +  atp = a phosphoprotein  +  adp .
catalysis of the reactions: atp  +  protein serine = adp  +  protein serine phosphate ,  and atp  +  protein threonine = adp  +  protein threonine phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein = adp  +  a phosphoprotein .
catalysis of the reactions: atp  +  a protein serine = adp  +  protein serine phosphate ;  and atp  +  a protein threonine = adp  +  protein threonine phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein = adp  +  a phosphoprotein .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein = adp  +  a phosphoprotein .
catalysis of the reactions: atp  +  protein serine = adp  +  protein serine phosphate ,  and atp  +  protein threonine = adp  +  protein threonine phosphate .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of the alpha or beta subunit of the inhibitor of kappab kinase complex  ( ikk )  .
catalysis of the reaction: protein  +  atp = protein phosphate  +  adp .
catalysis of the concomitant phosphorylation of threonine  ( t )  and tyrosine  ( y )  residues in a thr - glu - tyr  ( tey )  thiolester sequence in a map kinase  ( mapk )  substrate .
catalysis of the reaction: ribosomal protein s6  +  atp = ribosomal protein s6 phosphate  +  atp .
catalysis of the reactions: atp  +  a protein serine = adp  +  protein serine phosphate ;  atp  +  a protein threonine = adp  +  protein threonine phosphate ;  and atp  +  a protein tyrosine = adp  +  protein tyrosine phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein tyrosine = adp  +  protein tyrosine phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  protein l - tyrosine = adp  +  protein l - tyrosine phosphate by a non - membrane spanning protein .
catalysis of the reaction: a phosphoprotein  +  h2o = a protein  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: = adp  +  h (  +  )   +  phosphoenolpyruvate = >  atp  +  pyruvate .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 superoxide  +  2 h +  = o2  +  hydrogen peroxide .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 , 5 , 3' - l - triiodo - l - thyronine  +  iodide  +  acceptor  +  h +  = l - thyroxine  +  donor - h2 .
catalysis of the reaction: triacylglycerol  +  h2o = diacylglycerol  +  a carboxylate .
catalysis of the reaction: uroporphyrinogen - iii = coproporphyrinogen  +  4 co2 .
combining with an extracellular or intracellular signal and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity or state as part of signal transduction .
combining with an extracellular signal and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated g - protein ;  promotes the exchange of gdp for gtp on the alpha subunit of a heterotrimeric g - protein complex .
catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when glutamate has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
an ionotropic glutamate receptor activity that exhibits fast gating by glutamate and acts by opening a cation channel permeable to sodium ,  potassium ,  and ,  in the absence of a glur2 subunit ,  calcium .
an cation channel that opens in response to binding by extracellular glutmate ,  but only if glycine is also bound and the membrane is depolarized .
combining with an odorant and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity in response to detection of smell .
combining with a nuclear export signal  ( nes )  on a cargo to be transported ,  to mediate transport of a the cargo through the nuclear pore ,  from the nuclear lumen to the cytoplasm .
binds to and increases the activity of a gtpase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of gtp .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the activity of a soluble extracellular gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor to control the survival ,  growth ,  differentiation and effector function of tissues and cells .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cytokine receptor .
the action characteristic of a hormone ,  any substance formed in very small amounts in one specialized organ or group of cells and carried  ( sometimes in the bloodstream )  to another organ or group of cells in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory action .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells .
enables the facilitated diffusion of an ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  by passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific intracellular ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ion by a channel that opens when a ryanodine class ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an anion by a volume - sensitive channel .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific extracellular ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific extracellular ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts ,  where channel opening contributes to an increase in membrane potential .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a potassium ion by an inwardly - rectifying voltage - gated channel .
a wide pore channel activity that enables a direct cytoplasmic connection from one cell to an adjacent cell .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a voltage - gated channel .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ion by a voltage - gated channel .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a sodium ion by a voltage - gated channel .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a potassium ion by a voltage - gated channel .
enables the energy - independent passage of anions across a lipid bilayer down a concentration gradient .
enables the facilitated diffusion of a chloride  ( by an energy - independent process )  involving passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
enables passage of a chloride ion through a transmembrane channel that opens when atp is bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts on the intracellular side of the plasma membrane .
enables the energy - independent passage of cations across a lipid bilayer down a concentration gradient .
enables the facilitated diffusion of a calcium ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  involving passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
enables the facilitated diffusion of a potassium ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  involving passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
enables the facilitated diffusion of a sodium ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  involving passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
enables the transfer of organic acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: atp  +  h2o  +  na +  ( in )   +  k +  ( out )  = adp  +  phosphate  +  na +  ( out )   +  k +  ( in )  .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
a protein complex consisting of three collagen chains assembled into a left - handed triple helix .
any triple helical collagen trimer that forms fibrils .
a collagen trimer containing alpha ( i )  chains .
a collagen homotrimer of alpha1 ( ii )  chains ;  type ii collagen triple helices associate to form fibrils .
a collagen heterotrimer containing type iv alpha chains ;   [ alpha1 ( iv )  ] 2alpha2 ( iv )  trimers are commonly observed ,  although more type iv alpha chains exist and may be present in type iv trimers ;  type iv collagen triple helices associate to form 3 dimensional nets within basement membranes .
a collagen heterotrimer containing type vi alpha chains in alpha1 ( vi ) alpha2 ( vi ) alpha3 ( vi )  trimers ;  type vi collagen triple helices associate to form beaded fibrils .
a collagen - containing extracellular matrix consisting of a thin layer of dense material found in various animal tissues interposed between the cells and the adjacent connective tissue .
a type of extracellular matrix found in interstitial connective tissue ,  characterized by the presence of fibronectins ,  proteoglycans ,  and types i ,  iii ,  v ,  vi ,  vii and xii collagens .
that part of a multicellular organism outside the cells proper ,  usually taken to be outside the plasma membranes ,  and occupied by fluid .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
obsolete .the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the nucleus and separating its contents from the rest of the cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space ,  a gap of width 20 - 40 nm  ( also called the perinuclear space )  .
any of the numerous similar discrete openings in the nuclear envelope of a eukaryotic cell ,  where the inner and outer nuclear membranes are joined .
that part of the nuclear content other than the chromosomes or the nucleolus .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains small nuclear rna u1 .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains small nuclear rna u6 .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
an electron dense structure that is associated with meiotic chromosomes .
a condensed form of chromatin ,  occurring in the nucleus during interphase ,  that stains strongly with basophilic dyes .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the mitochondrion and separating its contents from the cell cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space .
the outer ,  i .e .cytoplasm - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the mitochondrial envelope .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the mitochondrial envelope .
the protein complexes that form the mitochondrial electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with the inner mitochondrial membrane .
a protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
the region between the inner and outer lipid bilayers of the mitochondrial envelope .
the gel - like material ,  with considerable fine structure ,  that lies in the matrix space ,  or lumen ,  of a mitochondrion .
a ribosome found in the mitochondrion of a eukaryotic cell ;  contains a characteristic set of proteins distinct from those of cytosolic ribosomes .
the larger of the two subunits of a mitochondrial ribosome .
the smaller of the two subunits of a mitochondrial ribosome .
a small lytic vacuole that has cell cycle - independent morphology and is found in most animal cells and that contains a variety of hydrolases ,  most of which have their maximal activities in the ph range 5 - 6 .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the lysosome and separating its contents from the cell cytoplasm .
vacuole formed by the fusion of a lysosome with an organelle  ( autosome )  or with a primary phagosome .
a vacuole to which materials ingested by endocytosis are delivered .
a membrane - bounded organelle that receives incoming material from primary endocytic vesicles that have been generated by clathrin - dependent and clathrin - independent endocytosis ;  vesicles fuse with the early endosome to deliver cargo for sorting into recycling or degradation pathways .
a prelysosomal endocytic organelle differentiated from early endosomes by lower lumenal ph and different protein composition .
a type of endosome in which regions of the limiting endosomal membrane invaginate to form internal vesicles ;  membrane proteins that enter the internal vesicles are sequestered from the cytoplasm .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the vacuole and separating its contents from the cytoplasm of the cell .
the volume enclosed within the vacuolar membrane .
a double - membrane - bounded compartment that engulfs endogenous cellular material as well as invading microorganisms to target them to the lytic vacuole / lysosome for degradation as part of macroautophagy .
a small organelle enclosed by a single membrane ,  and found in most eukaryotic cells .
the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the endoplasmic reticulum .
the smooth endoplasmic reticulum  ( smooth er or ser )  has no ribosomes attached to it .
the rough  ( or granular )  endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  has ribosomes adhering to the outer surface ;  the ribosomes are the site of translation of the mrna for those proteins which are either to be retained within the cisternae  ( er - resident proteins )  ,  the proteins of the lysosomes ,  or the proteins destined for export from the cell .
a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
the set of thin ,  flattened membrane - bounded compartments ,  called cisternae ,  that form the central portion of the golgi complex .
an intracellular non - membrane - bounded organelle comprising a matrix of coalesced lipids surrounded by a phospholipid monolayer .
a structure comprised of a core structure  ( in most organisms ,  a pair of centrioles )  and peripheral material from which a microtubule - based structure ,  such as a spindle apparatus ,  is organized .
a cellular organelle ,  found close to the nucleus in many eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of a small cylinder with microtubular walls ,  300 - 500 nm long and 150 - 250 nm in diameter .
an intracellular structure that can catalyze gamma - tubulin - dependent microtubule nucleation and that can anchor microtubules by interacting with their minus ends ,  plus ends or sides .
an array of microtubules emanating from a spindle pole mtoc that do not connect to kinetochores .
the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
a cytoskeletal structure composed of actin filaments and myosin that forms beneath the plasma membrane of many cells ,  including animal cells and yeast cells ,  in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the spindle ,  i .e .
any of the spindle microtubules that come from each pole and overlap at the spindle midzone .
the part of the cytoplasm that does not contain organelles but which does contain other particulate matter ,  such as protein complexes .
an iron - containing ,  oxygen carrying complex .
any of a family of heterotrimeric gtp - binding and hydrolyzing proteins ;  they belong to a superfamily of gtpases that includes monomeric proteins such as ef - tu and ras .
an intracellular organelle ,  about 200 a in diameter ,  consisting of rna and protein .
a multiribosomal structure representing a linear array of ribosomes held together by messenger rna .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
a dynein complex found in eukaryotic cilia and flagella ;  the motor domain heads interact with adjacent microtubules to generate a sliding force which is converted to a bending motion .
a filament of myosin found in a muscle cell of any type .
a complex of accessory proteins  ( typically troponin t ,  troponin i and troponin c )  found associated with actin in muscle thin filaments ;  involved in calcium regulation of muscle contraction .
a form of the tropomyosin dimer found associated with actin and the troponin complex in muscle thin filaments .
bipolar filaments formed of polymers of a muscle - specific myosin ii isoform ,  found in the middle of sarcomeres in myofibrils .
filaments formed of actin and associated proteins ;  attached to z discs at either end of sarcomeres in myofibrils .
any of the long ,  generally straight ,  hollow tubes of internal diameter 12 - 15 nm and external diameter 24 nm found in a wide variety of eukaryotic cells ;  each consists  ( usually )  of 13 protofilaments of polymeric tubulin ,  staggered in such a manner that the tubulin monomers are arranged in a helical pattern on the microtubular surface ,  and with the alpha / beta axes of the tubulin subunits parallel to the long axis of the tubule ;  exist in equilibrium with pool of tubulin monomers and can be rapidly assembled or disassembled in response to physiological stimuli ;  concerned with force generation ,  e .g .
any multimeric complex connected to a microtubule .
any microtubule that is part of a mitotic or meiotic spindle ;  anchored at one spindle pole .
a microtubule in the axoneme of a eukaryotic cilium or flagellum ;  an axoneme contains nine modified doublet microtubules ,  which may or may not surround a pair of single microtubules .
any microtubule in the nucleus of a cell .
any microtubule in the cytoplasm of a cell .
a cytoskeletal structure that forms a distinct elongated structure ,  characteristically 10 nm in diameter ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells .
a filamentous structure formed of a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin and associated proteins .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
the component of the plasma membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
sodium:potassium - exchanging atpases are tetrameric proteins ,  consisting of two large alpha subunits and two smaller beta subunits .
a protein complex that forms a transmembrane channel through which calcium ions may pass in response to changes in membrane potential .
a homo -  or hetero - pentameric protein complex that forms a transmembrane channel through which ions may pass in response to acetylcholine binding .
a membrane raft that forms small pit ,  depression ,  or invagination that communicates with the outside of a cell and extends inward ,  indenting the cytoplasm and the cell membrane .
thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments .
the dense covering of microvilli on the apical surface of a epithelial cells in tissues such as the intestine ,  kidney ,  and choroid plexus ;  the microvilli aid absorption by increasing the surface area of the cell .
a cell junction that forms a connection between two or more cells in a multicellular organism ;  excludes direct cytoplasmic intercellular bridges ,  such as ring canals in insects .
a cell - cell junction composed of the epithelial cadherin - catenin complex .
a cell - cell junction composed of pannexins or innexins and connexins ,  two different families of channel - forming proteins .
an assembly of six molecules of connexin ,  made in the golgi apparatus and subsequently transported to the plasma membrane ,  where docking of two connexons on apposed plasma membranes across the extracellular space forms a gap junction .
an occluding cell - cell junction that is composed of a branching network of sealing strands that completely encircles the apical end of each cell in an epithelial sheet ;  the outer leaflets of the two interacting plasma membranes are seen to be tightly apposed where sealing strands are present .
a cell - substrate junction that anchors the cell to the extracellular matrix and that forms a point of termination of actin filaments .
a cell - substrate junction found at the terminal anchorage site of skeletal muscle cells to tendons .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface and of some cytoplasmic parts .
the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia  ( also called flagella )  in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
an enzyme complex which in eukaryotes is composed of four different chains: alpha ,  beta ,  gamma ,  and delta .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen ,  a polydisperse ,  highly branched glucan composed of chains of d - glucose residues in alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic linkage ,  joined together by alpha -  ( 1 -  > 6 )  glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycogen ,  a polydisperse ,  highly branched glucan composed of chains of d - glucose residues .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycogen .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any disaccharide ,  sugars composed of two monosaccharide units .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monosaccharides ,  the simplest carbohydrates .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fucose ,  or 6 - deoxygalactose ,  which has two enantiomers ,  d - fucose and l - fucose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucose ,  the aldohexose gluco - hexose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving galactose ,  the aldohexose galacto - hexose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aminoglycans ,  any polymer containing amino groups that consists of more than about 10 monosaccharide residues joined to each other by glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aminoglycans ,  any polymer containing amino groups that consists of more than about 10 monosaccharide residues joined to each other by glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosaminoglycans ,  any of a group of polysaccharides that contain amino sugars .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving proteoglycans ,  any glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ethanol ,  ch3 - ch2 - oh ,  a colorless ,  water - miscible ,  flammable liquid produced by alcoholic fermentation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucans ,  polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lactate ,  the anion of lactic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyruvate ,  2 - oxopropanoate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a carbohydrate into pyruvate ,  with the concomitant production of a small amount of atp and the reduction of nad ( p )  to nad ( p ) h . glycolysis begins with the metabolism of a carbohydrate to generate products that can enter the pathway and ends with the production of pyruvate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which a cell derives energy from stored compounds such as fats or glycogen .
a metabolic process that results in the oxidation of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ,  nadh ,  to the oxidized form ,  nad .
the phosphorylation of adp to atp that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain .
the transfer of electrons from nadh to ubiquinone that occurs during oxidative phosphorylation .
the transfer of electrons from ubiquinol to cytochrome c that occurs during oxidative phosphorylation ,  mediated by the multisubunit enzyme known as complex iii .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a nucleoside diphosphate to produce a nucleoside triphosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of the nucleotide camp  ( cyclic amp ,  adenosine 3' , 5' - cyclophosphate )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cyclic gmp ,  guanosine 3' , 5' - phosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of gtp ,  guanosine triphosphate .
any cellular metabolic process involving deoxyribonucleic acid .
the cellular metabolic process in which a cell duplicates one or more molecules of dna .
a dna replication process that uses parental dna as a template for the dna - dependent dna polymerases that synthesize the new strands .
the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication .
a dna biosynthetic process that uses rna as a template for rna - dependent dna polymerases  ( e .g .
the replication of dna that precedes meiotic cell division .
the process of restoring dna after damage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
in base excision repair ,  an altered base is removed by a dna glycosylase enzyme ,  followed by excision of the resulting sugar phosphate .
the repair of double - strand breaks in dna via homologous and nonhomologous mechanisms to reform a continuous dna helix .
the repair of a double - strand break in dna in which the two broken ends are rejoined with little or no sequence complementarity .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotide sites in dna ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
the addition of alkyl groups to many positions on all four bases of dna .
the covalent transfer of a methyl group to either n - 6 of adenine or c - 5 or n - 4 of cytosine .
the repair of alkylation damage ,  e .g .
the cellular dna metabolic process resulting in the breakdown of dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long unbranched macromolecule formed from one or two strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides ,  the 3' - phosphate group of each constituent deoxyribonucleotide being joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage to the 5' - hydroxyl group of the deoxyribose moiety of the next one .
the cleavage of dna during apoptosis ,  which usually occurs in two stages: cleavage into fragments of about 50 kbp followed by cleavage between nucleosomes to yield 200 bp fragments .
any process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
any process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic chromatin .
the formation or destruction of chromatin structures .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
the cellular process that completes dna - templated transcription ;  the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases ,  the rna - dna hybrid dissociates ,  and rna polymerase releases the dna .
the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance at a dna - dependent rna polymerase promoter by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by an rna polymerase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase i .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna ploymerase iii .
the synthesis of rna from a dna template by rna polymerase i  ( rnap i )  ,  originating at an rnap i promoter .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  transcript into one or more mature rrna molecules .
the synthesis of rna from a dna template by rna polymerase ii  ( rnap ii )  ,  originating at an rna polymerase ii promoter .
the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance at an rna polymerase ii promoter by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by rna polymerase ii .
the process in which the synthesis of an rna molecule by rna polymerase ii using a dna template is completed .
selection of a splice site by components of the assembling spliceosome .
the enzymatic addition of a sequence of 40 - 200 adenylyl residues at the 3' end of a eukaryotic mrna primary transcript .
the synthesis of rna from a dna template by rna polymerase iii ,  originating at an rnap iii promoter .
the synthesis of rna from a mitochondrial dna template ,  usually by a specific mitochondrial rna polymerase .
the process in which the synthesis of an rna molecule using a mitochondrial dna template is completed .
any process involved in the conversion of one or more primary rna transcripts into one or more mature rna molecules .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary mrna transcript into one or more mature mrna ( s )  prior to translation into polypeptide .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving trna ,  transfer rna ,  a class of relatively small rna molecules responsible for mediating the insertion of amino acids into the sequence of nascent polypeptide chains during protein synthesis .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within a trna molecule to produce a trna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of mrna ,  messenger rna ,  which is responsible for carrying the coded genetic 'message' ,  transcribed from dna ,  to sites of protein assembly at the ribosomes .
a process in which rna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the directed movement of rna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the directed movement of mrna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the cellular metabolic process in which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna or circrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or accuracy of translational elongation .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
the process of removing one or more phosphoric residues from a protein .
the transfer ,  from nad ,  of adp - ribose to protein amino acids .
the addition of an acetyl group to a protein amino acid .
the addition of an acetyl group to a non - terminal amino acid in a protein .
the addition of a methyl group to a protein amino acid .
a protein modification process that results in the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid ,  e .g .
a protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the n4 atom of peptidyl - asparagine ,  the omega - n of arginine ,  or the n1' atom peptidyl - tryptophan .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of dolichol - linked oligosaccharide ,  usually by a stepwise addition of glycosyl chains to endoplasmic reticulum membrane - bound dolichol - p .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an oligosaccharide - lipid intermediate ,  such as a molecule of dolichol - p - man or dolicol - p - glc used in n - linked glycosylation .
a protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the hydroxyl group of peptidyl - serine ,  peptidyl - threonine ,  peptidyl - hydroxylysine ,  or peptidyl - hydroxyproline ,  or via the phenol group of peptidyl - tyrosine ,  forming an o - glycan .
the covalent attachment of lipid groups to an amino acid in a protein .
the hydrolysis of proteins into smaller polypeptides and / or amino acids by cleavage of their peptide bonds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of a ubiquitin group ,  or multiple ubiquitin groups ,  to the protein .
addition of a single ubiquitin group to a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  carboxylic acids containing one or more amino groups ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving leucine ,  2 - amino - 4 - methylpentanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving methionine  ( 2 - amino - 4 -  ( methylthio ) butanoic acid )  ,  a sulfur - containing ,  essential amino acid found in peptide linkage in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tyrosine ,  an aromatic amino acid ,  2 - amino - 3 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways occurring at the level of individual cells involving any of a group of naturally occurring ,  biologically active amines ,  such as norepinephrine ,  histamine ,  and serotonin ,  many of which act as neurotransmitters .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving melanins ,  pigments largely of animal origin .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of melanin from other compounds ,  including tyrosine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of dopamine  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine )  from l - tyrosine ,  via the metabolic precursor 3 , 4 - dihydroxy - l - phenylalanine  ( l - dopa )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving polyamines ,  any organic compound containing two or more amino groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of polyamines ,  any organic compound containing two or more amino groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of spermine ,  a polybasic amine found in human sperm ,  in ribosomes and in some viruses and involved in nucleic acid packaging .
the process of targeting specific proteins to particular regions of the cell ,  typically membrane - bounded subcellular organelles .
the directed movement of a protein from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
the process of directing proteins towards a membrane ,  usually using signals contained within the protein .
protein processing that takes place in the vacuole .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids ,  aliphatic monocarboxylic acids liberated from naturally occurring fats and oils by hydrolysis .
a fatty acid oxidation process that results in the complete oxidation of a long - chain fatty acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving neutral lipids ,  lipids only soluble in solvents of very low polarity .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving membrane lipids ,  any lipid found in or associated with a biological membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving phospholipids ,  any lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or diester .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycerophospholipids ,  any derivative of glycerophosphate that contains at least one o - acyl ,  o - alkyl ,  or o - alkenyl group attached to the glycerol residue .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycolipids ,  a class of 1 , 2 - di - o - acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part  ( usually a mono -  ,  di -  or tri - saccharide )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sphingolipids ,  any of a class of lipids containing the long - chain amine diol sphingosine or a closely related base  ( a sphingoid )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosphingolipids ,  any compound with residues of sphingoid and at least one monosaccharide .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosphingolipid ,  a compound with residues of sphingoid and at least one monosaccharide .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus ;  includes de novo formation and steroid interconversion by modification .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucocorticoids ,  hormonal c21 corticosteroids synthesized from cholesterol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid compounds ,  isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  or compounds containing or derived from linked isoprene  ( 3 - methyl - 2 - butenylene )  residues .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving terpenoids ,  any member of a class of compounds characterized by an isoprenoid chemical structure and including derivatives with various functional groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide  ( nadh )  ,  a coenzyme present in most living cells and derived from the b vitamin nicotinic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glutathione ,  the tripeptide glutamylcysteinylglycine ,  which acts as a coenzyme for some enzymes and as an antioxidant in the protection of sulfhydryl groups in enzymes and other proteins ;  it has a specific role in the reduction of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  and oxidized ascorbate ,  and it participates in the gamma - glutamyl cycle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any phosphorylated nucleoside .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of atp ,  adenosine 5' - triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into adp ,  adenosine diphosphate ,  to produce atp .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving of any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in organic solvents and relatively insoluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of the mo - molybdopterin cofactor ,  essential for the catalytic activity of some enzymes .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any member of a large group of derivatives or analogs of porphyrin .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any member of a large group of derivatives or analogs of porphyrin .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heme ,  any compound of iron complexed in a porphyrin  ( tetrapyrrole )  ring ,  from less complex precursors .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving superoxide ,  the superoxide anion o2 -   ( superoxide free radical )  ,  or any compound containing this species .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nitric oxide ,  nitrogen monoxide  ( no )  ,  a colorless gas only slightly soluble in water .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of cations ,  atoms or small molecules with a net positive charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of potassium ions  ( k +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of sodium ions  ( na +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of calcium  ( ca )  ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of chloride into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of iron  ( fe )  ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of water  ( h2o )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of dicarboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
transport of substances into ,  out of or within a mitochondrion .
the process in which a calcium ion  ( ca2 +  )  is transported across a mitochondrial membrane ,  into or out of the mitochondrion .
the transport of substances that occurs outside cells .
the directed extracellular movement of carbohydrates .
the directed extracellular movement of amino acids .
the directed movement of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of sodium ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of hydrogen ions ,  thereby modulating the internal ph ,  within an organism or cell .
the directed movement of proteins in a cell ,  including the movement of proteins between specific compartments or structures within a cell ,  such as organelles of a eukaryotic cell .
a process of secretion by a cell that results in the release of intracellular molecules  ( e .g .
the directed movement of substances from the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  to the golgi ,  mediated by cop ii vesicles .
the directed movement of substances from the golgi to other parts of the cell ,  including organelles and the plasma membrane ,  mediated by small transport vesicles .
the directed movement of substances from the golgi to the plasma membrane in transport vesicles that move from the trans - golgi network to the plasma membrane ,  where they fuse and release their contents by exocytosis .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which cells take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
an endocytosis process in which cell surface receptors ensure specificity of transport .
the evagination of a membrane ,  resulting in formation of a vesicle .
the process in which vesicles are directed to specific destination membranes .
the initial attachment of a vesicle membrane to a target membrane ,  mediated by proteins protruding from the membrane of the vesicle and the target membrane ,  that contributes to exocytosis .
fusion of the membrane of a transport vesicle with its target membrane .
a vesicle - mediated transport process that results in the engulfment of external particulate material by phagocytes and their delivery to the lysosome .
the initial step in phagocytosis involving adhesion to bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter ,  or an apoptotic cell and based on recognition of factors such as bacterial cell wall components ,  opsonins like complement and antibody or protein receptors and lipids like phosphatidyl serine ,  and leading to intracellular signaling in the phagocytosing cell .
the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis ,  including the membrane and cytoskeletal processes required ,  which involves one of three mechanisms: zippering of pseudopods around a target via repeated receptor - ligand interactions ,  sinking of the target directly into plasma membrane of the phagocytosing cell ,  or induced uptake via an enhanced membrane ruffling of the phagocytosing cell similar to macropinocytosis .
the directed movement of molecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
the cellular catabolic process in which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm ;  allows for both recycling of macromolecular constituents under conditions of cellular stress and remodeling the intracellular structure for cell differentiation .
a programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal  ( e .g .
any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme cysteine - type endopeptidase in the context of an apoptotic process .
the breakdown of structures such as organelles ,  proteins ,  or other macromolecular structures during apoptosis .
any apoptotic process in an inflammatory cell ,  any cell participating in the inflammatory response to a foreign substance e .g .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cell or subcellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another along a substrate such as the extracellular matrix ;  the migrating cell forms a protrusion that attaches to the substrate .
the formation of adhesions that stabilize protrusions at the leading edge of a migrating cell ;  involves integrin activation ,  clustering ,  and the recruitment of structural and signaling components to nascent adhesions .
the disassembly of adhesions at the front and rear of a migrating cell .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism ,  or the directed growth of a cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
a process in which force is generated within muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction .
a process in which force is generated within striated muscle tissue ,  resulting in the shortening of the muscle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle contraction .
the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
reactions ,  triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the occurrence of an injury ,  which result in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention / recovery from the infection caused by the attack .
an acute inflammatory response that involves non - antibody proteins whose concentrations in the plasma increase in response to infection or injury of homeothermic animals .
the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the widespread phosphorylation of various molecules ,  triggering many downstream processes ,  that occurs in response to the detection of dna damage .
a cascade of processes induced by the cell cycle regulator phosphoprotein p53 ,  or an equivalent protein ,  in response to the detection of dna damage and resulting in the stopping or reduction in rate of the cell cycle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of molecular signals generated by the accumulation of normal or misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum and leading to activation of transcription by nf - kappab .
any series of molecular signals that conveys information from the endoplasmic reticulum to the nucleus ,  usually resulting in a change in transcriptional regulation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the activation of genes whose promoters contain a specific sequence elements such as the unfolded protein response element  ( upre ;  consensus cagcgtg )  or the er stress - response element  ( erse ;  ccaan ( n ) 9ccacg )  ,  as a result of signaling via the unfolded protein response .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nucleus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nuclear envelope .
the maintenance of proper telomeric length by the addition of telomeric repeats by telomerase .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion ;  includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution ,  and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrial membrane ,  either of the lipid bilayer surrounding a mitochondrion .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the mitochondrial inner membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the plasma membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments .
obsolete .a cytoskeleton organization process that directly or indirectly links cytoskeletal filaments to the plasma membrane .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a microtubule - based process that results in the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
the removal of tubulin heterodimers from one or both ends of a microtubule .
the aggregation and bonding together of alpha -  and beta - tubulin to form a tubulin heterodimer .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule depolymerization ;  prevention of depolymerization of a microtubule can result from binding by 'capping' at the plus end  ( e .g .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the depolymerization of the specialized microtubules of the axoneme .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the cytoplasm .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the golgi apparatus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a peroxisome .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of endosomes .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within a vacuole .
any process that reduces the ph of the vacuole ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions in the vacuole or between a vacuole and its surroundings .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein in the vacuole ,  usually by the action of vacuolar proteases .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a lysosome .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within a lysosome .
any process that reduces the ph of the lysosomal lumen ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a junction between cells .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
a regulatory process that halts progression through the cell cycle during one of the normal phases  ( g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  m )  .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during dna segregation and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle in males .
the formation of the spindle during meiosis i of a meiotic cell cycle in males .
the formation of the spindle during meiosis ii of a meiotic cell cycle in males .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle in females .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle during meiosis i of a meiotic cell cycle in females .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle during meiosis ii of a meiotic cell cycle in females .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the cell cycle process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during the meiotic cell cycle in a male .
the cell cycle process in which the sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome become tethered to each other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid cohesion .
the cell cycle process in which the sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome are joined along the entire length of the chromosome ,  from their formation in s phase through metaphase during a mitotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as the cell leaves m phase .
the cell cycle process in which chromatin structure is compacted prior to and during mitosis in eukaryotic cells .
the cell cycle process in which the controlled breakdown of the nuclear envelope during mitotic cell division occurs .
the cell cycle process in which the directed movement of chromosomes from the center of the spindle towards the spindle poles occurs .
the cell cycle process in which chromosomes are aligned at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the mitotic spindle ,  during mitosis .
the cell cycle process in which chromosome structure is altered from the condensed form taken on during mitosis to the relaxed disperse form held in resting cells .
the cell cycle process that results in reformation of the nuclear envelope during mitotic cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
a cell cycle checkpoint that ensures accurate chromosome replication and segregation by preventing progression through a mitotic cell cycle until conditions are suitable for the cell to proceed to the next stage .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression through the g2 / m transition of the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
any process involved in the progression from anaphase / telophase to g1 that is associated with a conversion from high to low mitotic cdk activity .
the directed movement of the nucleus to a specific location within a cell .
the cell cycle process in which centrosome duplication and separation takes place .
the cell cycle process in which a daughter centriole is formed perpendicular to an existing centriole .
separation of duplicated centrosome components at the beginning of mitosis .
a cell cycle process that occurs as part of the male meiotic cell cycle and results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell to produce two daughter cells .
the first meiotic nuclear division in which homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two haploid daughter nuclei .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of meiosis i and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the meiotic cell cycle process where side by side pairing and physical juxtaposition of homologous chromosomes is created during meiotic prophase .
the cell cycle process in which double strand breaks are formed and repaired through a single or double holliday junction intermediate .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase i of meiosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
the second nuclear division of meiosis ,  in which the two chromatids in each chromosome are separated ,  resulting in four daughter nuclei from the two nuclei produced in meiosis ii .
a cell cycle process by which the cell nucleus divides as part of a meiotic cell cycle in the male germline .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through male meiosis i ,  the first meiotic division in the male germline .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through male meiosis ii ,  the second meiotic division in the male germline .
a cell cycle process by which the cell nucleus divides as part of a meiotic cell cycle in the female germline .
the cell cycle process in which the first meiotic division occurs in the female germline .
the cell cycle process in which the second meiotic division occurs in the female germline .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
the attachment of a neuron to another cell via adhesion molecules .
the attachment of a leukocyte to another cell via adhesion molecules .
the binding of a cell to the extracellular matrix via adhesion molecules .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
coordinated organization of groups of cells in a tissue ,  such that they all orient to similar coordinates .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
a series of molecular signals initiated by activation of a receptor on the surface of a cell .
any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  where the receptor possesses catalytic activity or is closely associated with an enzyme such as a protein kinase ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where the receptor possesses tyrosine kinase activity ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where the receptor possesses serine / threonine kinase activity ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a transforming growth factor beta receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a common - partner smad protein .
a series of molecular signals that proceeds with an activated receptor promoting the exchange of gdp for gtp on the alpha - subunit of an associated heterotrimeric g - protein complex .
any process that increases the concentration of calcium ions in the cytosol .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a dopamine receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the series of molecular signals generated by the binding of gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  ,  an amino acid which acts as a neurotransmitter in some organisms ,  to a cell surface receptor .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of glutamate to a glutamate receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to the receptor notch on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors leads to an increase in intracellular calcium and activation of protein kinase c  ( pkc )  .
a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of activation of the transmembrane protein smoothened .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell through the i - kappab - kinase  ( ikk )  - dependent activation of nf - kappab .
the stimulation of the activity of nf - kappab - inducing kinase through phosphorylation at specific residues .
an intracellular protein kinase cascade containing at least a jnk  ( a mapk )  ,  a jnkk  ( a mapkk )  and a jun3k  ( a map3k )  .
any process in which stat proteins  ( signal transducers and activators of transcription )  and jak  ( janus activated kinase )  proteins convey a signal to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
the process of introducing a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat  ( signal transducer and activator of transcription )  protein .
any intracellular signal transduction in which the signal is passed on within the cell via nitric oxide  ( no )  .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another .
the vesicular release of classical neurotransmitter molecules from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of neurotransmitter receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
the regulated release of neurotransmitter from the presynapse into the synaptic cleft via calcium - regulated exocytosis during synaptic transmission .
the process of synaptic transmission from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse .
the vesicular release of acetylcholine from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of dopamine receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
the process in which glial cells envelop neuronal cell bodies and / or axons to form an insulating layer .
the process of synaptic transmission from a neuron to a muscle ,  across a synapse .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the generation and maintenance of gametes in a multicellular organism .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an immature germ cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure  ( gamete )  .
the developmental process by which male germ line stem cells self renew or give rise to successive cell types resulting in the development of a spermatozoa .
the mitotic divisions of the primary spermatogonial cell  ( a primordial male germ cell )  to form secondary spermatogonia  ( primary spermatocytes )  .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the assembly and organization of the sperm flagellar axoneme ,  the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of the eukaryotic sperm flagellum ,  and is responsible for movement .
generation of the female gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a male gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
the production of yolk .yolk is a mixture of materials used for embryonic nutrition .
the construction of a chorion - containing eggshell .
construction of the chorion portion of the eggshell ,  which comprises the channels for gas exchange in an insect eggshell .
the synthesis ,  deposition ,  and organization of the materials in a cell of an ovary ;  where the cell can then undergo meiosis and form an ovum .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of an axis in the oocyte .
polarization of the oocyte along its anterior - posterior axis .
establishment of the specialized cytoplasm found at the poles of the egg .
any process in which rna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  the oocyte pole plasm .
the introduction of semen or sperm into the genital tract of a female .
the union of male and female gametes to form a zygote .
the binding and fusion of a sperm ,  with the plasma membrane of the oocyte as part of the process of single fertilization .
the process in which the egg becomes metabolically active ,  initiates protein and dna synthesis and undergoes structural changes to its cortex and / or cytoplasm .
the merging of two pronuclei in a fertilized egg to fuse and produce a single zygotic genome .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progress through the mitotic cell cycle .
the hierarchical steps resulting in the progressive subdivision of the anterior / posterior axis of the embryo .
subdivision of the embryo along the anterior / posterior axis into anterior ,  posterior and terminal regions .
the regionalization process that divides the spatial regions of an embryo into serially repeated regions .
division of the 14 parasegments of the embryo into anterior and posterior compartments ;  exemplified by the actions of the segment polarity gene products .
the establishment of an organism's body plan or part of an organism with respect to the left and right halves .
a complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
the process in which segments assume individual identities ;  exemplified in insects by the actions of the products of the homeotic genes .
any developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within an organism to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ectoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of nervous tissue over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
the expansion of a neuroblast population by cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the proliferation of neuroblasts .
de novo generation of a long process of a neuron ,  including the terminal branched region .
the chemotaxis process that directs the migration of an axon growth cone to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process in which an axon recognizes and binds to a set of cells with which it may form stable connections .
the collection of axons into a bundle of rods ,  known as a fascicle .
separation of axons away from a bundle of axons known as a fascicle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a synapse .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the central nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ventral midline over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the brain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the peripheral nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of sensory organs over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an open tracheal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the foregut are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the endoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mesoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the cell fate determination process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a mesoderm cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway ;  upon specification ,  the cell fate can be reversed .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the digestive tract mesoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the heart over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the larval heart over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the migration of mesodermal cells during gastrulation to help establish the multilayered body plan of the organism .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the developmental sequence of events leading to the formation of adult skeletal muscle tissue .
a process in which non - proliferating myoblasts fuse to existing fibers or to myotubes to form new fibers .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the visceral muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the somatic muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a neuromuscular junction .
the biological process in which a synapse between a motor neuron and a muscle is initially formed .
any process that establishes and transmits the specification of sexual status of an individual organism .
the establishment of the sex of an organism by physical differentiation .
a developmental process that is a deterioration and loss of function over time .
an aging process that has as participant a cell after a cell has stopped dividing .
a developmental process that arises as the cell progresses toward the end of its lifespan and cause changes cellular metabolism ,  resulting in a decline in cell function ;  for example ,  one aspect of general metabolic decline is a decrease in the efficiency of protein synthesis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process of gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
the whole of the physical ,  chemical ,  and biochemical processes carried out by multicellular organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
the controlled release of a fluid by a cell or tissue in an animal .
the sequential process in which the multiple coagulation factors of the blood interact ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of an insoluble fibrin clot ;  it may be divided into three stages: stage 1 ,  the formation of intrinsic and extrinsic prothrombin converting principle ;  stage 2 ,  the formation of thrombin ;  stage 3 ,  the formation of stable fibrin polymers .
the stopping of bleeding  ( loss of body fluid )  or the arrest of the circulation to an organ or part .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the sequence of reactions within a cell required to convert absorbed photons into a molecular signal .
the sequence of reactions within a cell required to convert absorbed photons from visible light into a molecular signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an auditory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory chemical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an olfactory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of animals  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli ,  via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity .
the acquisition and processing of information and / or the storage and retrieval of this information over time .
any process in an organism in which a relatively long - lasting adaptive behavioral change occurs as the result of experience .
the activities involved in the mental information processing system that receives  ( registers )  ,  modifies ,  stores ,  and retrieves informational stimuli .
the memory process that deals with the storage ,  retrieval and modification of information received a short time  ( up to about 30 minutes )  ago .
the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating ,  or sexual reproduction resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the pairwise union of individuals for the purpose of sexual reproduction ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the behavior of an organism for the purpose of attracting sexual partners .
the act of sexual union between male and female ,  involving the transfer of sperm .
the specific behavior of an organism that recur with measured regularity .
any biological process in an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
the specific movement from place to place of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
behavior associated with the intake of food .
the behavior of an organism in response to a visual stimulus .
the behavior of an organism pertaining to movement of the eyes and of objects in the visual field ,  as in nystagmus .
behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of chemicals .
behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of a mechanical stimulus .
the function of a family of small chemotactic cytokines ;  their name is derived from their ability to induce directed chemotaxis in nearby responsive cells .
the flow of blood through the body of an animal ,  enabling the transport of nutrients to the tissues and the removal of waste products .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
a secretory organelle ,  typically 50 nm in diameter ,  of presynaptic nerve terminals ;  accumulates in high concentrations of neurotransmitters and secretes these into the synaptic cleft by fusion with the 'active zone' of the presynaptic plasma membrane .
enables the transfer of monocarboxylic acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
the process in which a pre - trna molecule is converted to a mature trna ,  ready for addition of an aminoacyl group .
the process in which a cell in an organism interprets its surroundings .
the process in which a neuronal cell in a multicellular organism interprets its surroundings .
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of a motor neuron is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
combining with an extracellular messenger and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to results in a change in cellular activity involved in axon guidance .
binds to and increases the activity of an enzyme .
the behavior of a male ,  for the purpose of attracting a sexual partner .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of intracellular pigment storage granules in the eye .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly or disassembly of actin filaments by the addition or removal of actin monomers from a filament .
combining with glutamate and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity .
the orderly movement of mesodermal cells from one site to another .
catalysis of the transfer of an acetyl group to a nitrogen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a phosphodiester to give a phosphomonoester and a free hydroxyl group .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ion by a voltage - gated channel that is activated in response to light .
the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules in neuron projections .
the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules from the cell body toward the cell periphery in nerve cell axons .
the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules from the cell periphery toward the cell body in nerve cell axons .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein component of any cytoskeleton  ( actin ,  microtubule ,  or intermediate filament cytoskeleton )  .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
catalysis of the reaction: alpha - d - galactose 1 - phosphate  +  udp - d - glucose = alpha - d - glucose 1 - phosphate  +  udp - d - galactose .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: coqh2  +  2 ferricytochrome c = coq  +  2 ferrocytochrome c  +  2 h +  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a transcription factor ,  a protein required to initiate or regulate transcription .
catalysis of the reaction: nadh  +  ubiquinone  +  5 h (  +  )  ( in )   < = >  nad (  +  )   +  ubiquinol  +  4 h (  +  )  ( out )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a sulfate group from 3' - phosphoadenosine 5' - phosphosulfate to the hydroxyl group of an acceptor ,  producing the sulfated derivative and 3' - phosphoadenosine 5' - phosphate .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
assembly or disassembly of actin filaments by the addition or removal of actin monomers from a filament .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to the nitrogen atom of an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from a donor to a nucleoside residue in an rna molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from s - adenosyl - l - methionine to a nucleoside residue in an mrna molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a glycosyl group from a udp - sugar to a small hydrophobic molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucocorticoids ,  hormonal c21 corticosteroids synthesized from cholesterol .
the addition of an alkyl group to a protein amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving spermine ,  a polybasic amine found in human sperm ,  in ribosomes and in some viruses ,  which is involved in nucleic acid packaging .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving spermidine ,  n -  ( 3 - aminopropyl )  - 1 , 4 - diaminobutane .
any process that modulates the force with which blood travels through the circulatory system .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue  ( e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds by a mechanism in which water acts as a nucleophile ,  one or two metal ions hold the water molecule in place ,  and charged amino acid side chains are ligands for the metal ions .
catalysis of the reaction: a nucleotide  +  h2o = a nucleoside  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: a 5' - ribonucleotide  +  h2o = a ribonucleoside  +  phosphate .
a complex usually comprising two gamma - tubulin molecules and two conserved non - tubulin proteins .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group  ( ch3 -  )  to a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of g protein - coupled receptor signaling pathway .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of spermidine ,  n -  ( 3 - aminopropyl )  - 1 , 4 - diaminobutane .
any process in which mrna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any isoprenoid compound ,  isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  or compounds containing or derived from linked isoprene  ( 3 - methyl - 2 - butenylene )  residues .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any isoprenoid compound ,  isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  or compounds containing or derived from linked isoprene  ( 3 - methyl - 2 - butenylene )  residues .
the activity of binding selectively and non - covalently to and distorting the original structure of dna ,  typically a straight helix ,  into a bend ,  or increasing the bend if the original structure was intrinsically bent due to its sequence .
learning by associating a stimulus  ( the cause )  with a particular outcome  ( the effect )  .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from meiotic g2 phase to m phase of meiosis i .
enables the transfer of cation from one side of a membrane to the other .
a multimeric assembly of four or five subunits which form a structure with an extracellular n - terminus and a large loop that together form the ligand binding domain .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ion by a high voltage - gated channel .
the control of viability and duration in the adult phase of the life - cycle .
feeding behavior in a fully developed and mature organism .
locomotory behavior in a fully developed and mature organism .
locomotory behavior in a larval  ( immature )  organism .
the orderly movement of a glial cell ,  non - neuronal cells that provide support and nutrition ,  maintain homeostasis ,  form myelin ,  and participate in signal transmission in the nervous system .
the orderly movement of a cell specialized to produce haploid gametes through the embryo from its site of production to the place where the gonads will form .
the asymmetric division of cells to produce two daughter cells with different developmental potentials .
the specification of the anterior / posterior axis of the embryo by gradients of maternally - transcribed gene products ;  exemplified in insects by the morphogens ,  bicoid and nanos .
any process that modulates the surface configuration of a cell .
any process that modulates the size of a cell .
any process in which the axon of a neuron is insulated ,  and that insulation maintained ,  thereby preventing dispersion of the electrical signal .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to an oxygen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of an n - acetylglucosaminyl residue from udp - n - acetyl - glucosamine to a sugar .
the process of removing sections of the primary rna transcript to remove sequences not present in the mature form of the rna and joining the remaining sections to form the mature form of the rna .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the gonad over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
catalysis of the transfer of a fucosyl group to an acceptor molecule ,  typically another carbohydrate or a lipid .
catalysis of the reaction: procollagen l - lysine  +  2 - oxoglutarate  +  o2 = procollagen 5 - hydroxy - l - lysine  +  succinate  +  co2 .
catalysis of the transfer of an amino group to an acceptor ,  usually a 2 - oxo acid .
enables the transfer of a negatively charged ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of organic anions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process in an organism in which a change in behavior of an individual occurs in response to repeated exposure to a visual cue .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the epidermis over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: atp  +  h2o  +  na +  ( in )   -  >  adp  +  phosphate  +  na +  ( out )  ;  by a phosphorylative mechanism .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: atp  +  h2o  +  k +  ( out )  = adp  +  phosphate  +  k +  ( in )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic growth at neuromuscular junctions .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the male gonad over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the female gonad over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of smoothened signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors leads to an increase in intracellular calcium and activation of protein kinase c  ( pkc )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the notch signaling pathway .
the process in which the structures of a photoreceptor cell are generated and organized .
the specification of the anterior / posterior axis of the embryo by the products of genes expressed maternally and genes expressed in the zygote .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
a series of molecular signals in which an intracellular signal is conveyed to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell .
a series of molecular signals in which an intracellular signal is conveyed to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell .
the morphological and physiological alterations undergone by mitochondria during apoptosis .
catalysis of the activation of small proteins ,  such as ubiquitin or ubiquitin - like proteins ,  through the formation of an atp - dependent high - energy thiolester bond .
the directed movement of carbohydrate into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which hexose is transported across a membrane .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from s - adenosyl - l - methionine to a substrate .
any molecular entity that serves as an electron acceptor and electron donor in an electron transport chain .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds  ( especially carbohydrates and fats )  which requires oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a fatty acid ,  any of the aliphatic monocarboxylic acids that can be liberated by hydrolysis from naturally occurring fats and oils .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the aspartate family ,  comprising asparagine ,  aspartate ,  lysine ,  methionine and threonine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic amino acid family ,  amino acids with aromatic ring  ( phenylalanine ,  tyrosine ,  tryptophan )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing a branched carbon skeleton ,  comprising isoleucine ,  leucine and valine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside ,  a nucleobase linked to either beta - d - ribofuranose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or 2 - deoxy - beta - d - ribofuranose ,   ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleotide ,  a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleosides .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine or pyrimidine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any one of a family of organic molecules consisting of a purine or pyrimidine base covalently bonded to a sugar ribose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or deoxyribose  ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides ,  any nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic - nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cyclic nucleotide ,  a nucleotide in which the phosphate group is in diester linkage to two positions on the sugar residue .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a cyclic nucleotide ,  a nucleotide in which the phosphate group is in diester linkage to two positions on the sugar residue .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycolipid ,  a class of 1 , 2 - di - o - acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part  ( usually a mono -  ,  di -  or tri - saccharide )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glucans ,  polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a lipid bilayer that forms the outermost membrane of the cell envelope ;  enriched in polysaccharide and protein ;  the outer leaflet of the membrane contains specific lipopolysaccharide structures .
the region of a virus ,  bacterial cell ,  mitochondrion or chloroplast to which the nucleic acid is confined .
the cellular synthesis of messenger rna  ( mrna )  from a dna template .
the synthesis of ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  ,  any rna that forms part of the ribosomal structure ,  from a dna template .
the synthesis of transfer rna  ( trna )  from a dna template .
the controlled release of proteins from a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving oligosaccharides ,  molecules with between two and  ( about )  20 monosaccharide residues connected by glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of oligosaccharides ,  molecules with between two and  ( about )  20 monosaccharide residues connected by glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of oligosaccharides ,  molecules with between two and  ( about )  20 monosaccharide residues connected by glycosidic linkages .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the set of specific processes that generate the ability of an organism to induce an abnormal ,  generally detrimental state in another organism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within an rna molecule to produce an rna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to physical parameters involved in energy generation ,  such as light ,  oxygen ,  and oxidizable substrates .
the union of gametes of opposite sexes during the process of sexual reproduction to form a zygote .
the series of events in which an external stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which an  ( non - living )  abiotic stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a light stimulus  ( in the form of photons )  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a visible light stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a chemical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a biotic stimulus ,  one caused or produced by a living organism ,  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the movement of an organism ,  or part of an organism ,  in response to an external source of stimulus ,  usually toward or away from it .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the synchronization of a circadian rhythm to environmental time cues such as light .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the movement of an organism ,  or part of an organism ,  such as leaves or tendrils ,  in response to a touch stimulus ,  usually toward or away from it .
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
enables the transmembrane transport of one proton  ( h +  )  ,  driven by the hydrolysis of pyrophosphate ,  and generating a proton motive force .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a compound containing a pyrocatechol  ( 1 , 2 - benzenediol )  nucleus or substituent .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of catechol - containing compounds .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events in which an endogenous stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric cell division .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo from its formation until the end of its embryonic life stage .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the organism over time ,  from the completion of embryonic development to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo over time ,  from zygote formation until the end of the embryonic life stage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of replication and segregation of genetic material in the embryo .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of a pattern along a line or around a point .
the establishment of an organism's body plan or part of an organism such that a similar arrangement in form and relationship of parts around a common axis ,  or around each side of a plane is created .
the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size in one  [ spatial ]  dimension or along one axis ,  resulting in the morphogenesis of the cell .
the establishment of an organism's body plan or part of an organism with respect to a single longitudinal plane .
the process that results in the patterns of cell differentiation that will arise in an embryo .
the function of absorbing and responding to incidental electromagnetic radiation ,  particularly visible light .
morphogenesis of an animal organ .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
the leaflet the plasma membrane that faces the cytoplasm and any proteins embedded or anchored in it or attached to its surface .
the process in which the cellular identity of auditory hair cells is acquired and determined .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epidermal cell ,  any of the cells making up the epidermis .
the directed movement of hormones into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the region of the plasma membrane located at the basal end of the cell .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of the anterior / posterior axis .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of the dorsal / ventral axis .
any process resulting in the establishment of polarity along the dorsal / ventral axis .
the regionalization process in which specific areas of cell differentiation are determined along the anterior - posterior axis .
the regionalization process in which the areas along the dorsal / ventral axis are established that will lead to differences in cell differentiation .
the regionalization process in which specific areas of cell differentiation are determined along a proximal / distal axis .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into an epidermal cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway ;  upon specification ,  the cell fate can be reversed .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
catalysis of a ring closure reaction .
the external part of the cell wall and / or plasma membrane .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
cell recognition between cells .may involve the formation of specialized cell junctions .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which a relatively unspecialized immature germ cell acquires the specialized features of a mature female gamete .
any process that restricts ,  stops or prevents a cell from adopting a specific cell fate .
any process that restricts ,  stops or prevents a cell from specifying into a cardioblast .
any process that restricts ,  stops or prevents a cell from specifying into an auditory hair cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a glial cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized mesodermal cell acquires the specialized structural and / or functional features of a cardioblast .
the lipid bilayer surrounding an endosome .
compaction of chromatin structure prior to meiosis in eukaryotic cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the regionalization process in which the identity of an animal organ primordium is specified .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proton transport into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which the anatomical structures of the soma are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the embryonic soma are generated and organized .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of ions to establish or maintain an electrochemical gradient across a membrane by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the endomembrane system .
an aging process that has as participant a whole multicellular organism .
the process that occurs in an animal organ near the end of its active life that is associated with the dismantling of cell components and membranes ,  and an overall decline in metabolism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving hydrogen peroxide .
the infolding of a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion channel activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the anion channel activity .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
the modification of histones by addition of a single ubiquitin group .
the covalent transfer of a methyl group to c - 5 or n - 4 of a cytosine located within a cg sequence in a dna molecule .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of one or more methyl groups to lysine at position 36 of the histone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell fate commitment .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency or rate of cell fate commitment .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency or rate of cell fate commitment .
the cell cycle transition where a cell leaves m phase and enters a new g1 phase .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency or rate of heart contraction .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens in response to a light stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of light - activated voltage - gated calcium channel activity .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a mesenchymal cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesenchymal cell proliferation .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of gastrulation .
a dense aggregation in the cytosol composed of proteins and rnas that appear when the cell is under stress .
the movement of substances between cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds that is mediated by the proteasome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of autophagy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phospholipase activity ,  the hydrolysis of a phospholipid .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phospholipase activity ,  the hydrolysis of a phospholipid .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phospholipase activity ,  the hydrolysis of a phospholipid .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of recombination during meiosis .
any process that modulates the rate of the directed movement of calcium ions into the cytosol of a cell .
any process that decreases the rate of the directed movement of calcium ions into the cytosol of a cell .
any process that increases the rate of the directed movement of calcium ions into the cytosol of a cell .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of platelet activation .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of platelet activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane disassembly .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ketone ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the error - free repair of a double - strand break in dna in which the broken dna molecule is repaired using homologous sequences .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which a multicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the dna - dependent dna replication that occurs in the nucleus of eukaryotic organisms as part of the cell cycle .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of platelet activation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the orderly movement of an endothelial cell into the extracellular matrix to form an endothelium .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the orderly movement of an endothelial cell into the extracellular matrix to form an endothelium .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the orderly movement of an endothelial cell into the extracellular matrix to form an endothelium .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression after the production of an rna transcript .
any process that modulates the propensity of mrna molecules to degradation that is part of a change in state or activity of a cell as a result of an exogenous disturbance .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of the heart due to an increase in size  ( not length )  of individual cardiac muscle fibers ,  without cell division .
any process that modulates the rate ,  extent or frequency of the process in which cardiac muscle adapts ,  with consequent modifications to structural and / or functional phenotypes ,  in response to a stimulus .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of the heart due to an increase in size  ( not length )  of individual cardiac muscle fibers ,  without cell division .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of the heart due to an increase in size  ( not length )  of individual cardiac muscle fibers ,  without cell division .
any process that increases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the process in which cardiac muscle adapts ,  with consequent modifications to structural and / or functional phenotypes ,  in response to a stimulus .
any process that decreases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the process in which cardiac muscle adapts ,  with consequent modifications to structural and / or functional phenotypes ,  in response to a stimulus .
the activation of endogenous cellular processes that result in the death of a cell as part of its development .
any process that modulates the frequency or rate of multiplication or reproduction of schwann cells ,  resulting in the expansion of their population .
any process that increases the frequency or rate of the multiplication or reproduction of schwann cells ,  resulting in the expansion of their population .
any process that decreases the frequency or extent of the multiplication or reproduction of schwann cells ,  resulting in the expansion of their population .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
the orderly movement of an epithelial cell from one site to another ,  often during the development of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell migration .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
the process that mediates signaling interactions between one cell and another cell by transfer of current between their adjacent cytoplasms via intercellular protein channels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication via electrical coupling .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication via electrical coupling .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication via electrical coupling .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of muscle cell apoptotic process ,  a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a muscle cell and result in its death .
a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases ,  whose actions dismantle a muscle cell and result in its death .
a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases ,  whose actions dismantle a striated muscle cell and result in its death .
a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases ,  whose actions dismantle a cardiac muscle cell and result in its death .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of muscle cell apoptotic process ,  a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a muscle cell and result in its death .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of muscle cell apoptotic process ,  a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a muscle cell and result in its death .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of striated muscle cell apoptotic process ,  a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a striated muscle cell and result in its death .
any process that increases the rate or extent of striated muscle cell apoptotic process ,  a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a striated muscle cell and result in its death .
any process that decreases the rate or extent of striated muscle cell apoptotic process ,  a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a striated muscle cell and result in its death .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of cardiac cell apoptotic process ,  a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a cardiac muscle cell and result in its death .
any process that increases the rate or extent of cardiac cell apoptotic process ,  a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a cardiac muscle cell and result in its death .
any process that decreases the rate or extent of cardiac cell apoptotic process ,  a form of programmed cell death induced by external or internal signals that trigger the activity of proteolytic caspases whose actions dismantle a cardiac muscle cell and result in its death .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of an ectodermal cell .
a tissue homeostatic process required for the maintenance of epithelial structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that decreases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any cellular process that decreases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates carried out by repression of transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alkaline phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alkaline phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alkaline phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the metabolism of collagen ,  any of a group of fibrous proteins of very high tensile strength that form the main component of connective tissue in animals .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the metabolism of collagen ,  any of a group of fibrous proteins of very high tensile strength that form the main component of connective tissue in animals .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the metabolism of collagen ,  any of a group of fibrous proteins of very high tensile strength that form the main component of connective tissue in animals .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of extracellular matrix disassembly .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of extracellular matrix disassembly .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of definitive erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of primitive erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving hydrogen peroxide .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving hydrogen peroxide .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of hydrogen peroxide biosynthesis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of hydrogen peroxide biosynthesis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of hydrogen peroxide biosynthesis .
a series of reactions ,  mediated by the intracellular serine / threonine kinase protein kinase a ,  which occurs as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein kinase a signaling .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein kinase a signaling .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of nitric oxide mediated signal transduction .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of nitric oxide mediated signal transduction .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of nitric oxide mediated signal transduction .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of macrophage chemotaxis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of macrophage chemotaxis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of macrophage chemotaxis .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sodium ions  ( na +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sodium ions  ( na +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome are joined along the entire length of the chromosome during meiosis i .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome are joined along the entire length of the chromosome during meiosis ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of mrna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of the tumor necrosis factor - mediated signaling pathway .
any process that decreases the rate or extent of the tumor necrosis factor - mediated signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell - substrate adhesion .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell - substrate adhesion .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell - substrate adhesion .
any process that modulates the levels of hormone within an organism or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of centrosome duplication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of centrosome duplication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of centrosome duplication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myotube differentiation .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myotube differentiation .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myotube differentiation .
any process that contributes to the maintenance of proper telomeric length and structure by affecting and monitoring the activity of telomeric proteins and lengthening the telomeric dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein adp - ribosylation .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein adp - ribosylation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of keratinocyte proliferation .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of keratinocyte proliferation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of keratinocyte proliferation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the wakeful phase of the circadian sleep / wake cycle .
any process that increases the frequency ,  or extent of the wakeful phase of the circadian sleep / wake cycle .
the process in which the vertebrate retina is organized into three laminae: the outer nuclear layer  ( onl )  ,  which contains photoreceptor nuclei ;  the inner nuclear layer  ( inl )  ,  which contains amacrine ,  bipolar and horizontal cells ;  and the retinal ganglion cell  ( rgc )  layer .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of recombination during meiosis .
any process the modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin assembly .
any process that modulates the rate of atp hydrolysis by an atpase .
modulates the activity of an enzyme that catalyzes a ring closure reaction .
decreases the activity of an enzyme that catalyzes a ring closure reaction .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of pathway - restricted smad protein phosphorylation .
any process in which a lipid is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the directed movement of lipids into cells that is part of their accumulation and maintenance .
the accumulation and maintenance in cells or tissues of cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
the directed movement of cholesterol into cells that is part of their accumulation and maintenance .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol by the sarcoplasmic reticulum ,  the process in which the release of sequestered calcium ion by sarcoplasmic reticulum into cytosol occurs via calcium release channels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle contraction by changing the calcium ion signals that trigger contraction .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of lipid storage .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of lipid storage .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of cholesterol storage .
any process that increases the rate or extent of cholesterol storage .
any process that decreases the rate or extent of cholesterol storage .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of lipid storage .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of glucose metabolism .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of glucose metabolism .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of heparan sulfate proteoglycan biosynthesis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of heparan sulfate proteoglycan biosynthesis .
any process that modulates the activity of an isomerase .
any process that increases the activity of an isomerase .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
the cellular component assembly that is part of the initial shaping of the component during its developmental progression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic microtubule depolymerization .
the removal of tubulin heterodimers from one or both ends of a cytoplasmic microtubule .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of necrotic cell death .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of necrotic cell death .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of protein maturation by peptide bond cleavage .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of protein maturation by peptide bond cleavage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of metal ion transport .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of magnesium ions within an organism or cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid separation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of polyamine biosynthesis .
the movement of organelles or other particles from one location in the cell to another along microtubules ,  driven by motor activity .
any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process which begins when a cell receives an internal or external signal and activates a series of biochemical events  ( signaling pathway )  .
a process which directly activates any of the steps required for programmed cell death .
a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
the lipid bilayer surrounding any membrane - bounded vesicle in the cell .
the process aimed at the progression of an astrocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process aimed at the progression of an oligodendrocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a microglial cell .
the process aimed at the progression of a microglial cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microglia differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a microglial cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microglia differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a microglial cell .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microglia differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a microglial cell .
the multiplication or reproduction of glial cells by cell division ,  resulting in the expansion of their population .
the multiplication or reproduction of schwann cells ,  resulting in the expansion of their population .
the multiplication or reproduction of schwann cells by cell division ,  resulting in the expansion of their population in response to an axonal lesion .
the regrowth of axons outside the central nervous system  ( outside the brain and spinal cord )  following an axonal injury .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gliogenesis ,  the formation of mature glia .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gliogenesis ,  the formation of mature glia .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gliogenesis ,  the formation of mature glia .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuroblast .
the process in which the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will differentiate into a neuroblast .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a neuroblast in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process aimed at the progression of a neuroblast over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific state ,  to the mature neuroblast .
the formation of the neural tube from an epithelial cell sheet  ( the neuroepithelium or neural plate )  .
the formation of the neural tube by coalescence of mesenchymal cells followed by their conversion to epithelial cells to form a solid cord that subsequently hollows out  ( cavitates )  to create a hollow tube .
the process in which the neural plate is shaped by the intrinsic movement of the epidermal and neural plate regions .
the formation of a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
the formation of a thickened region of the neurectoderm that is roughly triangular in cross section .
the formation of the notochord from the chordamesoderm .
the formation of the specialized region of ectoderm between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm .
the process aimed at the progression of a mesenchymal cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process aimed at the progression of a neural crest cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neural crest cell .
the process in which a cell becomes committed to become a neural crest cell .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a neural crest cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway ;  upon specification ,  the cell fate can be reversed .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a schwann cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron maturation ,  the process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a neuron .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron maturation .
the process aimed at the progression of a schwann cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
establishment of the endothelial barrier between the blood and the brain .
the regulated release of dopamine by a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
a series of reactions within the signal - receiving cell ,  mediated by the intracellular phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase  ( pi3k )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase cascade .
an electron dense network of proteins within and adjacent to the postsynaptic membrane of an asymmetric ,  neuron - neuron synapse .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a complex cell - cell junction at which myofibrils terminate in cardiomyocytes ;  mediates mechanical and electrochemical integration between individual cardiomyocytes .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a striated muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the branchiomeric skeletal muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of somitomeric trunk muscle development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of somitomeric trunk muscle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of somitomeric trunk muscle development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of branchiomeric skeletal muscle development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of branchiomeric skeletal muscle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of branchiomeric skeletal muscle development .
a process in which force is generated within tonic skeletal muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within twitch skeletal muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle contraction by changing the calcium ion signals that trigger contraction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of twitch skeletal muscle contraction .
any process in which skeletal muscle adapts ,  with consequent modifications to structural and / or functional phenotypes ,  in response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of muscle hypertrophy .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle hypertrophy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle hypertrophy .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle adaptation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of muscle adaptation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tonic skeletal muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tonic skeletal muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tonic skeletal muscle contraction .
the portion of the free sarcoplasmic reticulum consisting of longitudinal tubules that connect terminal cisternae .
the portion of sarcoplasmic reticulum devoted to calcium ion storage and calcium ion release .
the region between the inner and outer lipid bilayers of the longitudinal sarcoplasmic reticulum envelope .
the region between the inner and outer lipid bilayers of the terminal cisterna envelope .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of somitogenesis .
the process in which the release of sequestered calcium ion by sarcoplasmic reticulum into cytosol occurs via calcium release channels .
the orderly movement of a muscle cell from one site to another ,  often during the development of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle contraction .
a process in which force is generated within tonic smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within phasic smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized satellite cell acquires specialized features of a myoblast .
the multiplication or reproduction of satellite cells ,  resulting in the expansion of the cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle satellite cell proliferation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle contraction by variation of the pattern of stimulation by nervous system .
any process ,  involved in skeletal muscle contraction ,  that modulates the establishment or extent of the excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  .
the multiplication or reproduction of striated muscle cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
the multiplication or reproduction of skeletal muscle cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle cell proliferation .
the regulated release of neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft involved in skeletal muscle contraction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle contraction by depolarization of muscle membrane and ionic fluxes .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skeletal myofibril over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the size of myofibrils .
the process in which cardiac muscle adapts ,  with consequent modifications to structural and / or functional phenotypes ,  in response to a stimulus .
any process in which striated muscle adapts ,  with consequent modifications to structural and / or functional phenotypes ,  in response to a stimulus .
the muscle system process that results in enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of a muscle organ due to an increase in the size of its muscle cells .
the enlargement or overgrowth of all or part of an organ due to an increase in size of muscle cells without cell division .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a myotube cell .
the process aimed at the progression of a myotube cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
a process in which non - proliferating myoblasts ,  after migrating to the site of injury ,  fuse into existing damaged fibers or fuse to myotubes to form new fibers ,  as part of the process of skeletal muscle regeneration .
the process aimed at the progression of a myotube cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a myotube cell .
catalysis of the four - electron reduction of dioxygen  ( o2 )  to water ,  coupled to generation of a proton electrochemical gradient across a membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of the heparan sulfate proteoglycan ,  a glycosaminoglycan with repeat unit consisting of alternating alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked hexuronic acid and glucosamine residues ;  the former are a mixture of sulfated and nonsulfated d - glucuronic acid and l - iduronic acid ;  the l - iduronic acid is either sulfated or acetylated on its amino group as well as being sulfated on one of its hydroxyl groups ;  heparan sulfate chains are covalently linked to peptidyl - serine by a glycosidic attachment through the trisaccharide galactosyl - galactosyl - xylosyl to serine residues .
a class of nuclear body ,  first seen after silver staining by ramon y cajal in 1903 ,  enriched in small nuclear ribonucleoproteins ,  and certain general rna polymerase ii transcription factors ;  ultrastructurally ,  they appear as a tangle of coiled ,  electron - dense threads roughly 0 .5 micrometers in diameter ;  involved in aspects of snrnp biogenesis ;  the protein coilin serves as a marker for cajal bodies .
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the reaction: a protein with reduced sulfide groups = a protein with oxidized disulfide bonds .
catalysis of the reaction: substrate with reduced sulfide groups = substrate with oxidized disulfide bonds .
catalysis of the reaction: a peptide with reduced sulfide groups = a peptide with oxidized disulfide bonds .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 glutathione  +  electron acceptor = glutathione disulfide  +  electron donor .
enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of a inorganic cations with a valency of one from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of a proton from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of potassium ions  ( k +  )  from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of sodium ions  ( na +  )  from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of calcium  ( ca )  ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of inorganic anions from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of chloride ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the energy - independent facilitated diffusion ,  mediated by passage of a solute through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a potassium ion by an inwardly - rectifying voltage - gated channel ,  where the inward rectification is due to a voltage - dependent block of the channel pore by atp .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ion from intracellular stores by a channel that opens when a specific intracellular ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
a ligand - gated ion channel activity which transports calcium in response to emptying of intracellular calcium stores .
enables the transfer of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other ,  up its concentration gradient .
enables the active transport of a solute across a membrane by a mechanism whereby two or more species are transported together in the same direction in a tightly coupled process not directly linked to a form of energy other than chemiosmotic energy .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: solute ( out )   +  cation ( out )  = solute ( in )   +  cation ( in )  .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: anion ( out )   +  cation ( out )  = anion ( in )   +  cation ( in )  .
enables the transfer of an inorganic molecular entity from the outside of a cell to the inside of the cell across a membrane .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: cation ( out )   +  cl -  ( out )  = cation ( in )   +  cl -  ( in )  .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: k +  ( out )   +  cl -  ( out )  = k +  ( in )   +  cl -  ( in )  .
enables the transfer of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other ,  up the solute's concentration gradient ,  by binding the solute and undergoing a series of conformational changes .
combining with acetylcholine and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity .
enables the transfer of a specific substance or related group of substances from the inside of the cell to the outside of the cell across a membrane .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of actin and associated proteins .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of microtubules and associated proteins .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ,  to directly drive the transport of ions across a membrane .
the directed movement of substances that are gaseous in normal living conditions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of oxygen  ( o2 )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of inorganic cations with a valency of one into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of magnesium  ( mg )  ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic cations into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of ammonium into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore of quaternary ammonium compounds ,  any compound that can be regarded as derived from ammonium hydroxide or an ammonium salt by replacement of all four hydrogen atoms of the nh4 +  ion by organic groups .
the directed movement of inorganic anions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic anions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of monocarboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a monosaccharide is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the directed movement of acidic amino acids ,  amino acids with a ph below 7 ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of l - enantiomer amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of amines ,  including polyamines ,  organic compounds containing one or more amino groups ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of betaine ,  the n - trimethyl derivative of an amino acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of urea into ,  out of or within the cell .
the directed movement of monoamines ,  organic compounds that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by an ethylene group  (  - ch2 - ch2 -  )  ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of an organic hydroxy compound  ( organic alcohol )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of acetylcholine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of dopamine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of fatty acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of sterols into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of galactosyl compounds ,  substances containing a group derived from a cyclic form of galactose or a galactose derivative .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of glucosyl compounds ,  substances containing a group derived from a cyclic form of glucose or a glucose derivative .
catalysis of the cleavage of hexosamine or n - acetylhexosamine residues  ( e .g .
the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the larger of the two subunits of a ribosome .
the smaller of the two subunits of a ribosome .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which a cell derives energy from organic compounds ;  results in the oxidation of the compounds from which energy is released .
the transport of protons across a membrane to generate an electrochemical gradient  ( proton - motive force )  that provides energy for the synthesis of atp or gtp .
the transport of protons across a membrane to generate an electrochemical gradient  ( proton - motive force )  that powers atp synthesis .
the transport of protons across a membrane and against an electrochemical gradient ,  using energy from a source such as atp hydrolysis ,  light ,  or electron transport .
a multiprotein complex that forms a strong mechanical link between the cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix ;  typical of ,  but not confined to ,  muscle cells .
a protein complex that includes alpha -  and beta - dystroglycan ,  which are alternative products of the same gene ;  the laminin - binding component of the dystrophin - associated glycoprotein complex ,  providing a link between the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton  ( in muscle cells )  and the extracellular matrix .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
the component of a membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
a multi - organism process in which a virus is a participant .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vesicle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell and ending with a change in cell state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of light - activated channel activity .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mrna ,  messenger rna ,  which is responsible for carrying the coded genetic 'message' ,  transcribed from dna ,  to sites of protein assembly at the ribosomes .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rrna ,  ribosomal rna ,  a structural constituent of ribosomes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rrna ,  ribosomal rna ,  a structural constituent of ribosomes .
fusion of intracellular membrane - bounded vesicles with the pre - synaptic membrane of the neuronal cell resulting in release of neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft .
the initial  ( indirect )  attachment of a synaptic vesicle membrane to the presynaptic active zone membrane ,  mediated by proteins protruding from the membrane and proteins of the presynaptic active zone cytoplasmic component .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving diterpenoid compounds ,  terpenoids with four isoprene units .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of diterpenoid compounds ,  terpenoids with four isoprene units .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of diterpenoid compounds ,  terpenoids with four isoprene units .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of terpenoids ,  any member of a class of compounds characterized by an isoprenoid chemical structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of terpenoids ,  any member of a class of compounds characterized by an isoprenoid chemical structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sterols ,  steroids with one or more hydroxyl groups and a hydrocarbon side - chain in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of sterols ,  steroids with one or more hydroxyl groups and a hydrocarbon side - chain in the molecule .
steps required to form an initiated synaptic vesicle into a fully formed and transmissible synaptic vesicle .
a cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane - bounded vesicles ;  transported substances are enclosed in the vesicle lumen or located in the vesicle membrane .
the directed movement of substances mediated by an endosome ,  a membrane - bounded organelle that carries materials enclosed in the lumen or located in the endosomal membrane .
the recognition of molecules at a choice point by an axon growth cone ;  at a choice point the growth cone determines the direction of its future growth .
the recognition of molecules at the central nervous system midline choice point by an axon growth cone ;  this choice point determines whether the growth cone will cross the midline .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle development .
the developmental process in which a skeletal muscle attaches to its target  ( such as bone or body wall )  .
the process that mediates the transfer of information from the cells of a muscle to those of its intended target ,  thereby identifying the target site .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with amp ,  adenosine monophosphate .
inhibition of the reactions brought about by dioxygen  ( o2 )  or peroxides .
catalysis of the ligation of ammonia  ( nh3 )  to another substance via a carbon - nitrogen bond with concomitant breakage of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
a discrete intracellular part formed of aggregated molecules such as proteins or other biopolymers .
the major inducible pathway for the general turnover of cytoplasmic constituents in eukaryotic cells ,  it is also responsible for the degradation of active cytoplasmic enzymes and organelles during nutrient starvation .
any process ,  such as recognition of nutrient depletion ,  that activates or increases the rate of macroautophagy to bring cytosolic macromolecules to the vacuole / lysosome for degradation .
the initial attachment of an autophagosome membrane to a target membrane ,  mediated by proteins protruding from the membrane of the vesicle and the target membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of macroautophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macroautophagy .
assembly of gap junctions ,  which are found in most animal tissues ,  and serve as direct connections between the cytoplasms of adjacent cells .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from s - adenosyl - l - methionine to the epsilon - amino group of a lysine residue .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from s - adenosyl - l - methionine to the epsilon - amino group of a lysine residue in a protein substrate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a lipid or phospholipid .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a phosphatidylinositol phosphate = adp  +  a phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 - phosphate  +  atp = 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 , 5 - bisphosphate  +  adp  +  2 h (  +  )  .
a quality inhering in a protein or a molecule by virtue of the addition of a phosphate  ( po4 )  group to the bearer .
the process of removing one or more phosphoric  ( ester or anhydride )  residues from a molecule .
the cell cycle process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during the meiotic cell cycle in a female .
the developmentally regulated remodeling of neuronal projections such as pruning to eliminate the extra dendrites and axons projections set up in early stages of nervous system development .
the region of the plasma membrane that includes the basal end and sides of the cell .
the region of the plasma membrane located at the apical end of the cell .
formation and maintenance of a polarized microtubule array originating from a microtubule - organizing center  ( mtoc )  in the oocyte .
the apical end of the lateral plasma membrane of epithelial cells .
the process in which the anatomical structures of embryonic epithelia are generated and organized .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules that do not require the presence of calcium for the interaction .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules that require the presence of calcium for the interaction .
complex of peripheral cytoplasmic proteins  ( alpha -  ,  beta -  and gamma - catenin )  that interact with the cytoplasmic region of uvomorulin / e - cadherin to connect it to the actin cytoskeleton .
the cell cycle process in which the directed movement of chromosomes from the center of the spindle towards the spindle poles takes place ,  mediated by the shortening of microtubules attached to the chromosomes .
the directed movement of chromosomes in the center of the spindle towards the spindle poles ,  mediated by the shortening of microtubules attached to the chromosomes ,  during female meiosis .
the directed movement of chromosomes in the center of the spindle towards the spindle poles ,  mediated by the shortening of microtubules attached to the chromosomes ,  during male meiosis .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dendrite over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
catalysis of the transfer of an acetyl group to an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to a nitrogen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  m ( 7 ) g ( 5' ) pppam = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  m ( 7 ) g ( 5' ) pppm ( 6 ) am .
the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
recombination occurring within or between dna molecules in somatic cells .
the somatic process that results in the generation of sequence diversity of immunoglobulins .
the process in which immunoglobulin genes are formed through recombination of the germline genetic elements ,  as known as immunoglobulin gene segments ,  within a single locus .
any process carried out at the cellular level that results in either long - term transcriptional repression via action on chromatin structure or rna mediated ,  post - transcriptional repression of gene expression .
a protein complex ,  formed of one or more myosin heavy chains plus associated light chains and other proteins ,  that functions as a molecular motor ;  uses the energy of atp hydrolysis to move actin filaments or to move vesicles or other cargo on fixed actin filaments ;  has magnesium - atpase activity and binds actin .
a myosin complex containing two class ii myosin heavy chains ,  two myosin essential light chains and two myosin regulatory light chains .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a pyrophosphate bond between two phosphate groups ,  leaving one phosphate on each of the two fragments .
a large protein complex that catalyzes the synthesis or hydrolysis of atp by a rotational mechanism ,  coupled to the transport of protons across a membrane .
a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex found in the vacuolar membrane ,  where it acts as a proton pump to mediate acidification of the vacuolar lumen .
any process that modulates the surface configuration of an embryonic cell .
the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell from one site to a destination guided by molecular cues .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase i .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase iii .
the directed movement of substances or organelles within the cytosol .
any protein maturation process achieved by the cleavage of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
the generation of a mature peptide hormone by posttranslational processing of a prohormone .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of angiogenesis .
the cytoplasm of a muscle cell ;  includes the sarcoplasmic reticulum .
a fine reticular network of membrane - limited elements that pervades the sarcoplasm of a muscle cell ;  continuous over large portions of the cell and with the nuclear envelope ;  that part of the endoplasmic reticulum specialized for calcium release ,  uptake and storage .
any base modification or substitution events that result in alterations in the coding potential or structural properties of rnas as a result of changes in the base - pairing properties of the modified ribonucleoside ( s )  .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within an mrna molecule to produce an mrna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
the process in which one or more ubiquitin groups are added to a protein .
the alteration of dna or protein in chromatin by the covalent addition or removal of chemical groups .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a histone protein .
the modification of histones by addition of methyl groups .
the modification of histones by addition of phosphate groups .
the modification of a histone by the addition of an acetyl group .
the modification of histones by addition of ubiquitin groups .
ordering of successions of nucleosomes into regular arrays so that nucleosomes are positioned at defined distances from one another .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with glutamate ,  the anion of 2 - aminopentanedioic acid .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an amino acid ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
extra - nucleolar nuclear domains usually visualized by confocal microscopy and fluorescent antibodies to specific proteins .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group act as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad +  or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone  ( oxo )  group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - ch group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh2 group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh2 group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces an oxygen molecule .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which nadh or nadph acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which nadh or nadph acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a quinone or a similar acceptor molecule .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a sulfur - containing group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a sulfur - containing group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a heme group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a heme group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces oxygen .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a diphenol or related substance acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a diphenol ,  or related compound ,  acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a cytochrome .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a diphenol ,  or related compound ,  acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces oxygen .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which the peroxide group acts as a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from one donor ,  and molecular oxygen is incorporated into a donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from one donor ,  and two oxygen atoms is incorporated into a donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from each of two donors ,  and molecular oxygen is reduced or incorporated into a donor .
catalysis of the reaction: a  +  2 - oxoglutarate  +  o2 = b  +  succinate  +  co2 .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from nadh or nadph and one other donor ,  and one atom of oxygen is incorporated into one donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from reduced ascorbate and one other donor ,  and one atom of oxygen is incorporated into one donor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a superoxide radical  ( o2 -  or o2 . -  )  acts as a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a one - carbon group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group ,  other than amino - acyl ,  from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a glycosyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a hexosyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an alkyl or aryl  ( but not methyl )  group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a nitrogenous group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to an alcohol group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to a carboxyl group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a nucleotidyl group to a reactant .
catalysis of the transfer of a sulfur - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any ester bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphoric monoesters ,  releasing inorganic phosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any glycosyl bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any carbon - nitrogen bond ,  c - n ,  with the exception of peptide bonds .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non - peptide carbon - nitrogen bond in a cyclic amide .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non - peptide carbon - nitrogen bond in a cyclic amidine ,  a compound of the form r - c ( =nh )  - nh2 .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid anhydride .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid anhydride which contains phosphorus .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid phosphorus - nitrogen bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the nonhydrolytic addition or removal of a carboxyl group to or from a compound .
catalysis of the breakage of a carbon - oxygen bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of a carbon - oxygen bond by elimination of water .
catalysis of the elimination of hydrogen sulfide or substituted h2s .
catalysis of the cleavage of a phosphorus - oxygen bond by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the geometric or structural changes within one molecule .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which the hydrogen donor and acceptor are the same molecule ,  and no oxidized product appears .
catalysis of the transfer of a functional group from one position to another within a single molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group from one position to another within a single molecule .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules ,  or two groups within a single molecule ,  using the energy from the hydrolysis of atp ,  a similar triphosphate ,  or a ph gradient .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules via a carbon - sulfur bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules ,  or two groups within a single molecule ,  via a carbon - nitrogen bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the ligation of an acid to ammonia  ( nh3 )  or an amide via a carbon - nitrogen bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the ligation of an acid to an amino acid via a carbon - nitrogen bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate  +  2 h +  .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone  ( oxo )  group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
interacting selectively and non - covalently ,  in a ligand dependent manner ,  with a nuclear receptor protein .
the process in which a sumo protein  ( small ubiquitin - related modifier )  is conjugated to a target protein via an isopeptide bond between the carboxy - terminus of sumo with an epsilon - amino group of a lysine residue of the target protein .
a protein complex that forms a transmembrane channel through which chloride ions may pass in response to glycine binding to the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
the directed movement of poly ( a )  +  mrna out of the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
the covalent addition of a nitric oxide group to an amino acid within a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of any tgf - beta receptor signaling pathway .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with purine nucleotides ,  any compound consisting of a purine nucleoside esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: 3' - phosphoadenosine 5' - phosphosulfate  +  heparan sulfate = adenosine 3' , 5' - bisphosphate  +  heparan sulfate 6 - o - sulfate ;  results in 6 - o - sulfation of glucosamine residues in heparan sulfate .
catalysis of the reaction: a nucleoside triphosphate  +  h2o = nucleoside diphosphate  +  phosphate .
the self - renewing division of a stem cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
the release of intracellular molecules  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion - dependent exocytosis .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a substrate by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue  ( e .g .
the methylation of peptidyl - lysine to form either the mono -  ,  di -  or trimethylated derivative .
the methylation of peptidyl - lysine to form peptidyl - n6 , n6 , n6 - trimethyl - l - lysine .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  histone l - lysine = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  histone n6 - methyl - l - lysine .
the methylation of peptidyl - lysine to form peptidyl - n6 - methyl - l - lysine .
the methylation of peptidyl - lysine to form peptidyl - n6 , n6 - dimethyl - l - lysine .
the phosphorylation of peptidyl - serine to form peptidyl - o - phospho - l - serine .
the phosphorylation of peptidyl - tyrosine to form peptidyl - o4' - phospho - l - tyrosine .
the covalent addition of a nitric oxide  ( no )  group to the sulphur  ( s )  atom of a cysteine residue in a protein ,  to form peptidyl - s - nitrosyl - l - cysteine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the modification of a protein amino acid by oxidation .
the alteration of an amino acid residue in a peptide .
the modification of peptidyl - arginine .
the modification of peptidyl - cysteine .
the modification of peptidyl - lysine .
the modification of peptidyl - serine .
the modification of peptidyl - tyrosine .
the addition of a methyl group to an arginine residue in a protein .
the incorporation of molybdenum into a molybdenum - molybdopterin complex .
the covalent attachment of a prenyl group to a protein ;  geranyl ,  farnesyl ,  or geranylgeranyl groups may be added .
the covalent attachment of a farnesyl group to a protein .
the covalent attachment of a geranylgeranyl group to a protein .
the covalent attachment of a palmitoyl group to a protein .
the addition of an acetyl group to a non - terminal lysine residue in a protein .
the acetylation of peptidyl - lysine .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenanthrene  +  o2 = h +   +  2 - hydroxy - 2 h - benzo [ h ] chromene - 2 - carboxylate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a phenol ,  any compound containing one or more hydroxyl groups directly attached to an aromatic carbon ring .
the deposition of eggs  ( either fertilized or not )  upon a surface or into a medium such as water .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotypes in an organism's soma .
a set of processes which all viruses follow to ensure survival ;  includes attachment and entry of the virus particle ,  decoding of genome information ,  translation of viral mrna by host ribosomes ,  genome replication ,  and assembly and release of viral particles containing the genome .
any receptor - mediated endocytosis that is involved in the uptake of a virus into a host cell ;  successive instances of virus endocytosis result in the accumulation of virus particles within the cell .
any process in which mitochondrial rna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in which mrna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  the oocyte pole plasm .
the specific behavior of an organism that is associated with reproduction .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotypes in a female organism's soma .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotypes in a male organism's soma .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a carbohydrate substrate molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: carbohydrate phosphate  +  h2o = carbohydrate  +  phosphate .
modulates the activity of a kinase ,  an enzyme which catalyzes of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a cytokine to a receptor on the surface of a cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the neurological system process in which a signal is transmitted through the nervous system by a combination of action potential propagation and synaptic transmission .
an action potential that occurs in a neuron .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reductions in the diameter of blood vessels .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
catalysis of the removal of an amino group from a substrate ,  producing ammonia  ( nh3 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lactate ,  the anion of lactic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a hexose ,  any monosaccharide with a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hexose ,  any monosaccharide with a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
the removal of one or more electrons from a fatty acid ,  with or without the concomitant removal of a proton or protons ,  by reaction with an electron - accepting substance ,  by addition of oxygen or by removal of hydrogen .
any process ,  acting at the cellular level ,  involved in removing superoxide radicals  ( o2 -  )  from a cell or organism ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving urea ,  the water soluble compound o=c -  ( nh2 ) 2 .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organophosphates ,  any phosphate - containing organic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide  ( nad )  ,  a coenzyme present in most living cells and derived from the b vitamin nicotinic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ribose phosphate ,  any phosphorylated ribose sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the mo - molybdopterin cofactor ,  essential for the catalytic activity of some enzymes .
any intracellular signal transduction in which the signal is passed on within the cell via calcium ions .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in many of the chemical changes of compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
the directed movement of one - carbon compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the transfer of atg12 from one protein to another via the reaction x - atg12  +  y  -  -  >  y - atg12  +  x ,  where both x - atg12 and y - atg12 are covalent linkages .
catalysis of the activation of the small ubiquitin - related modifier apg12 ,  through the formation of an atp - dependent high - energy thiolester bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide or isopeptide bonds within small proteins such as ubiquitin or ubiquitin - like proteins  ( e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of apg8 ,  a small ubiquitin - related modifier .
catalysis of the transfer of a ubiquitin - like from one protein to another via the reaction x - ulp  +  y  -  -  >  y - ulp  +  x ,  where both x - ulp and y - ulp are covalent linkages .
catalysis of the reaction: acetyl - coa  +   ( alpha - tubulin )  l - lysine = coa  +   ( alpha - tubulin )  n6 - acetyl - l - lysine .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
the process by which an organism or tissue maintains a population of stem cells of a single type .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: atp  +  h2o  +  cation ( out )  = adp  +  phosphate  +  cation ( in )  .
the rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving l - ascorbic acid ,   ( 2r )  - 2 -  [  ( 1s )  - 1 , 2 - dihydroxyethyl ]  - 4 - hydroxy - 5 - oxo - 2 , 5 - dihydrofuran - 3 - olate ;  l - ascorbic acid is vitamin c and has co - factor and anti - oxidant activities in many species .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of an organelle envelope ;  usually highly selective to most ions and metabolites .
the external membrane of gram - negative bacteria or certain organelles such as mitochondria and chloroplasts ;  freely permeable to most ions and metabolites .
modulates the activity of a protein kinase ,  an enzyme which phosphorylates a protein .
the directed movement of mitochondria along microtubules in nerve cell axons .
the component of a plasma membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the component of a membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any enzyme .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a kinase ,  any enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a protein kinase ,  any enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a protein substrate .
the accumulation and maintenance in cells or tissues of lipids ,  compounds soluble in organic solvents but insoluble or sparingly soluble in aqueous solvents .
any intracellular signal transduction in which the signal is passed on within the cell via a second messenger ;  a small molecule or ion that can be quickly generated or released from intracellular stores ,  and can diffuse within the cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent modification of the target protein .
a reproduction process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism ,  in the case of self - fertilizing hermaphrodites ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving hemoglobin ,  including its uptake and utilization .
the formation of the prechordal plate .
the morphogenesis of the neural fold elevations that results in the movement of the tips of the elevations towards each other in order to fuse .
the process of folding the neuroepithelium around the medial hinge point to create the neural elevations ,  and around the lateral hinge points to produce convergence of the folds .
the formation of a ventral region of glial cells in the neural tube that provides inductive signals for the specification of neuronal cell types .
the formation of a single row of glia at the dorsal midline of the developing neural tube .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the spinal cord over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the regionalization process that regulates the coordinated growth and establishes the non - random spatial arrangement of the spinal cord .
the process that regulates the coordinated growth and differentiation that establishes the non - random anterior - posterior spatial arrangement of the spinal cord .
the process that regulates the coordinated growth and differentiation that establishes the non - random dorsal - ventral spatial arrangement of the spinal cord .
the process in which neuroepithelial cells in the neural tube acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of ventral spinal cord interneurons .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the cells of the spinal cord .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ventral region of the spinal cord over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a commissural neuron in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a motor neuron in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a ventral spinal cord interneuron in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process in which neuroepithelial cells in the ventral neural tube acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of motor neurons .
the process in which neuroepithelial cells in the ventral neural tube acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of commissural neurons .
the process in which neuroepithelial cells in the neural tube acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of oligodendrocytes .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into an oligodendrocyte in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the regionalization process that regulates the coordinated growth that establishes the non - random spatial arrangement of the neural tube .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the mature cells of the hindbrain .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population in the hindbrain .
the orderly movement of a cell that will reside in the hindbrain .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the diencephalon over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the telencephalon over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the epithalamus over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pallium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cranial nerves over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the rhombomere over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the regionalization process that gives rise to the midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pons over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cerebellum over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the medulla oblongata over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the central nervous system is generated and organized .
the process that contributes to the act of creating the structural organization of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the olfactory nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the optic nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary is generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the oculomotor nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the trigeminal nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the abducens nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the facial nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of rhombomere 3 over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of rhombomere 4 over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of rhombomere 5 over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of rhombomere 6 over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the hindbrain is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the hindbrain .
the process that contributes to the act of creating the structural organization of the hindbrain .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the cerebellum is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the cerebellum .
the process that contributes to the act of creating the structural organization of the cerebellum .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the brain ventricular system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the fourth ventricle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the rhombomere is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the rhombomere .
the process that contributes to the act of creating the structural organization of the central nervous system structure .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the cranial nerves are generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the cranial nerves .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a cranial nerve to attain its fully functional state .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the facial nerve is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the facial nerve .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the oculomotor nerve is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the oculomotor nerve .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the olfactory nerve is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the olfactory nerve .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the optic nerve is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the optic nerve .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the trigeminal nerve is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to a rhombomere boundary .
the process in which the anatomical structure of rhombomere 3 is generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structure of rhombomere 4 is generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cerebellar purkinje cell layer over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cerebellar granule layer over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a nerve to attain its fully functional state .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the cerebellar granular layer is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the cerebellar granule layer .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the cerebellar purkinje cell layer is generated and organized .
the process that contributes to the act of creating the structural organization of the cerebellar purkinje cell layer .
the process that gives rise to the cerebellar purkinje cell layer .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cerebellar cortex over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the cranial nerves are generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the cerebellar cortex .
the process that contributes to the act of creating the structural organization of the cerebellar cortex .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an anatomical structure ,  cell or cellular component to attain its fully functional state .
the process in which neuroblasts acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the mature cerebellar purkinje cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the locus ceruleus over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which neuroblasts acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the mature cerebellar granule cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the trigeminal motor nucleus over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for the midbrain - hindbrain boundary to attain its fully functional state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the abducens nucleus over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which neuroblasts acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the mature eurydendroid cell .
the progression of the limbic system over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the olfactory bulb over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a ligand to a retinoic acid receptor in a precursor cell in the ventral spinal cord that contributes to the commitment of the precursor cell to an interneuron fate .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a ligand to the transmembrane receptor smoothened in a precursor cell in the ventral spinal cord that contributes to the commitment of the precursor cell to an interneuron fate .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a ligand to the transmembrane receptor smoothened in a precursor cell in the spinal cord that contributes to the process of a precursor cell becoming capable of differentiating autonomously into a motor neuron in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into an oligodendrocyte in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process in which the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into an oligodendrocyte .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a glial cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process in which the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a glial cell .
the process aimed at the progression of a glial cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a preganglionic parasympathetic fiber over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a branchiomotor neuron growth cone is directed to a specific target site .
the process in which a branchiomotor neuron growth cone is directed to a specific target site in response to an attractive chemical signal .
the process in which the thalamus changes over time ,  from its initial formation to its mature state .
the creation of specific areas of progenitor domains along the anterior - posterior axis of the developing forebrain .
the formation of specific regional progenitor domains along the dorsal - ventral axis in the developing forebrain .
the directional movement of a gonadotrophin - releasing hormone producing neuron from the nasal placode to the hypothalamus .
the creation of greater cell numbers in the forebrain due to cell division of progenitor cells .
the progression of the hypothalamus region of the forebrain ,  from its initial formation to its mature state .
the directed movement of a cell into the hypothalamus region of the forebrain .
the movement of a hypothalamic neuronal precursor tangentially through the forebrain using an interaction of the migrating cells with axons of other neurons .
the regionalization process resulting in the creation of areas within the forebrain that will direct the behavior of cell migration in differentiation as the forebrain develops .
the process in which nerve cells are generated in the forebrain .
the process in which the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a neuron that resides in the forebrain .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron that will reside in the forebrain .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of an extracellular ligand to a notch receptor on the surface of the target cell that contributes to the commitment of a neuroblast to a neuronal fate .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell that contributes to the commitment of a neuroblast to aneuronal fate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the commitment of a neuroblast to a neuronal fate .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron that resides in the forebrain ,  from its initial commitment to its fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another at least one of which is located in the forebrain .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron located in the hypothalamus .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a hypothalamus gonadotrophin - releasing hormone neuron over time ,  from initial commitment of its fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the initial commitment of cells whereby the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into some type of neuron in the forebrain .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands that contributes to the commitment of a neuroblast to a neuronal fate .
the process in which the neural tube is divided into specific regions along the rostrocaudal axis .
the process in which the neural tube is regionalized in the dorsoventral axis .
the process whose specific outcome is the formation of the hindbrain - spinal cord boundary .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands that results in the spatial identity of regions along the anterior - posterior axis of the spinal cord .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a retinoic acid receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands that results in the spatial identity of regions along the anterior - posterior axis of the spinal cord .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of activation of the transmembrane protein smoothened that results in the spatial identity of regions along the dorsal - ventral axis of the spinal cord .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that results in the commitment of a cell to become an interneuron in the ventral spinal cord .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of smoothened signaling that is involved in the patterns of cell differentiation in the ventral spinal cord .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the neural tube over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the spatial identity of regions along the dorsal - ventral axis of the spinal cord .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population in the hindbrain region that is adjacent to the ventricular cavity .
the multiplication or reproduction of neuroblasts resulting in the expansion of a cell population in the external granule layer of the hindbrain .
the multiplication or reproduction of neuroblasts that will give rise to granule cells .
the migration of a cell in the hindbrain in which cells move orthogonal to the direction of radial migration .
the early migration of granule cell precursors in which cells move orthogonal to the direction of radial migration and ultimately cover the superficial zone of the cerebellar primordium .
the process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of granule cell precursor proliferation .
the process that activates or increases the rate or extent of granule cell precursor proliferation .
the process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of granule cell precursor proliferation .
generation of a long process of a cns neuron ,  that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body towards target cells in a different central nervous system region .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron whose cell body resides in the central nervous system .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron whose cell body is located in the central nervous system ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a neuronal fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated neuron .
generation of a long process from a neuron whose cell body resides in the central nervous system .
generation of a long process of a cns neuron ,  that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body in one half of the cerebral cortex towards target cells in the contralateral half .
generation of a long process of a cns neuron ,  that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body in the midbrain towards target cells in the diencephalon .
the differentiation of cells that will contribute to the structure and function of the hypothalamus .
the progression of the pineal gland over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the pituitary gland over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the adenohypophysis over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the habenula over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the progression of the olfactory lobe over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the formation of the flat ,  thickened layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
the process of expansion of cell numbers in the neural plate due to cell division of progenitor cells preferentially in the rostrocaudal direction ,  resulting in the elongation of the tissue .
the process that regulates the coordinated growth and differentiation that establishes the non - random anterior - posterior spatial arrangement of the neural plate .
the process of directed cell movement in the neural plate resulting in tissue elongation via intercalation of adjacent cells in an epithelial sheet at the midline ,  leading to narrowing and lengthening of the neural plate .
generation of cells within the nervous system .
the process in which neuronal axons and dendrites become coated with a segmented lipid - rich sheath  ( myelin )  to enable faster and more energetically efficient conduction of electrical impulses .
the process in which neuronal axons and dendrites become coated with a segmented lipid - rich sheath  ( myelin )  to enable faster and more energetically efficient conduction of electrical impulses .
the multiplication or reproduction of pallium cells in the forebrain ,  resulting in the expansion of the cell population .
the division of a radial glial cell in the pallium .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the commitment of a neuroblast to a neuronal fate .
the movement of the nucleus of the ventricular zone cell between the apical and the basal zone surfaces .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another at least one of which is located in the telencephalon .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the metencephalon over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the cell cycle is divided .
the initial attachment of a membrane or protein to a target membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
a behavioral process involved in the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cellular component .
a process ,  occurring at the cellular level ,  that is involved in the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
a process involved in the sexual cycle seen in females ,  often with physiologic changes in the endometrium that recur at regular intervals during the reproductive years .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate ,  another cell ,  or other organism .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a gland are generated and organized .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a complex containing rna and proteins .
a process that results in the breakdown of the extracellular matrix .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a ribonucleoprotein complex .
the large subunit of a ribosome located in the cytosol .
a ribosome located in the cytosol .
the small subunit of a ribosome located in the cytosol .
enables the transfer of a single solute from one side of a membrane to the other by a mechanism involving conformational change ,  either by facilitated diffusion or in a membrane potential dependent process if the solute is charged .
enables the transfer of a specific substance or related group of substances from one side of a membrane to the other ,  up the solute's concentration gradient .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific neurotransmitter has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transport of a solute across a membrane via a large pore ,  un - gated channel .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel whose open state is dependent on the voltage across the membrane in which it is embedded .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens when a specific neurotransmitter has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens in response to a specific stimulus .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a cation by a voltage - gated channel .
enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other up the solute's concentration gradient .
enables the transfer of a substance ,  usually a specific substance or a group of related substances ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of inorganic cations from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmembrane transporter activity .
a process in which a series of electron carriers operate together to transfer electrons from donors to any of several different terminal electron acceptors to generate a transmembrane electrochemical gradient .
a process in which a series of electron carriers operate together to transfer electrons from donors such as nadh and fadh2 to any of several different terminal electron acceptors to generate a transmembrane electrochemical gradient .
a process in which the transfer of one or more phosphate groups to a substrate transmits a signal to the phosphorylated substrate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression as a consequence of a process in which a signal is released and / or conveyed from one location to another .
the process in which an activated neuronal cell receptor conveys information down a signaling pathway ,  resulting in a change in the function or state of a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the process in which a signal is secreted or discharged into the extracellular medium from a cellular source .
the directed movement of metal ions ,  any metal ion with an electric charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic cations at the level of a cell .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
the maintenance of established anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
the contractile element of skeletal and cardiac muscle ;  a long ,  highly organized bundle of actin ,  myosin ,  and other proteins that contracts by a sliding filament mechanism .
the repeating unit of a myofibril in a muscle cell ,  composed of an array of overlapping thick and thin filaments between two adjacent z discs .
platelike region of a muscle sarcomere to which the plus ends of actin filaments are attached .
a thin sheetlike process extended by the leading edge of a migrating cell or extending cell process ;  contains a dense meshwork of actin filaments .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the actin cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
the cell cycle process in which rearrangement of the spatial distribution of actin filaments and associated proteins occurs .
assembly of actin filaments by the addition of actin monomers to a filament .
movement of organelles or other particles along actin filaments ,  or sliding of actin filaments past each other ,  mediated by motor proteins .
a cellular component that forms a specialized region of connection between two or more cells ,  or between a cell and the extracellular matrix ,  or between two membrane - bound components of a cell ,  such as flagella .
a cell junction that forms a connection between a cell and the extracellular matrix .
a cell - substrate junction  ( attachment structure )  found in epithelial cells that links intermediate filaments to extracellular matrices via transmembrane complexes .
a cell - cell junction in which: on the cytoplasmic surface of each interacting plasma membrane is a dense plaque composed of a mixture of intracellular anchor proteins ;  a bundle of keratin intermediate filaments is attached to the surface of each plaque ;  transmembrane adhesion proteins of the cadherin family bind to the plaques and interact through their extracellular domains to hold the adjacent membranes together by a ca2 +  - dependent mechanism .
any of the inward folds of the mitochondrial inner membrane .
the formation of mature insulin by proteolysis of the precursor preproinsulin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
the regulated release of a peptide hormone from a cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the myeloid and lymphoid derived organ / tissue systems of the blood and other parts of the body over time ,  from formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized precursor cell acquires specialized features of a lymphocyte .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte ,  megakaryocyte ,  thrombocyte ,  or erythrocyte lineages .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of water within an organism or cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the wnt signal transduction pathway .
any of the vesicles of the constitutive secretory pathway ,  which carry cargo from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi ,  between golgi cisternae ,  from the golgi to the er  ( retrograde transport )  or to destinations within or outside the cell .
small membrane - bounded organelle formed by pinching off of a coated region of membrane .
a vesicle with a coat formed of clathrin connected to the membrane via one of the clathrin adaptor complexes .
a membrane - bounded intracellular vesicle formed by invagination of the plasma membrane around an extracellular substance .
a small subcellular vesicle ,  surrounded by a membrane ,  that is formed from the golgi apparatus and contains a highly concentrated protein destined for secretion .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of sphingolipids ,  any of a class of lipids containing the long - chain amine diol sphingosine or a closely related base  ( a sphingoid )  .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteoglycans ,  any glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans .
a series of progressive ,  overlapping events triggered by exposure of the platelets to subendothelial tissue .
thin ,  stiff ,  actin - based protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast or amoeba ,  or an axonal or dendritic growth cone ,  or a dendritic shaft .
the component of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the wnt signaling pathway .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a b cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving melatonin  ( n - acetyl - 5 - methoxytryptamine )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of melatonin  ( n - acetyl - 5 - methoxytryptamine )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an extracellular matrix .
any process that determines the size and arrangement of collagen fibrils within an extracellular matrix .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any proteoglycan containing heparan sulfate ,  any member of a group of glycosaminoglycans that have repeat units consisting of alternating alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked hexuronic acid and glucosamine residues ,  the former being a mixture of sulfated and nonsulfated d - glucuronic and l - iduronic acids ,  and the latter being either sulfated or acetylated on its amino group as well as sulfated on one of its hydroxyl groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosaminoglycans ,  any one of a group of polysaccharides that contain amino sugars .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving chondroitin sulfate ,  any member of a group of 10 - 60 kda glycosaminoglycans ,  widely distributed in cartilage and other mammalian connective tissues ,  the repeat units of which consist of beta -  ( 1 , 4 )  - linked d - glucuronyl beta -  ( 1 , 3 )  - n - acetyl - d - galactosamine sulfate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of chondroitin sulfate ,  any member of a group of 10 - 60 kda glycosaminoglycans ,  widely distributed in cartilage and other mammalian connective tissues ,  the repeat units of which consist of beta -  ( 1 , 4 )  - linked d - glucuronyl beta -  ( 1 , 3 )  - n - acetyl - d - galactosamine sulfate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving hyaluronan ,  the naturally occurring anionic form of hyaluronic acid ,  any member of a group of glycosaminoglycans ,  the repeat units of which consist of beta - 1 , 4 linked d - glucuronyl - beta -  ( 1 , 3 )  - n - acetyl - d - glucosamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hyaluronan ,  the naturally occurring anionic form of hyaluronic acid ,  any member of a group of glycosaminoglycans ,  the repeat units of which consist of beta - 1 , 4 linked d - glucuronyl - beta -  ( 1 , 3 )  - n - acetyl - d - glucosamine .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a keratinocyte .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires characteristics of a more mature t - cell .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires specializes features of an erythrocyte .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires specializes features of a megakaryocyte .
the process in which platelets bud from long processes extended by megakaryocytes .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a neutrophil .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a monocyte .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized monocyte acquires the specialized features of a macrophage .
binds to and modulates the activity of an enzyme .
the specification of female sex of an individual organism .
the specification of male sex of an individual organism .
formation of myofibrils ,  the repeating units of striated muscle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins to form the actin - based thin filaments of myofibrils in skeletal muscle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins to form the myosin - based thick filaments of myofibrils in skeletal muscle .
the regulated release of growth hormone from secretory granules into the blood .
the covalent alteration of one or more fatty acids in a lipid ,  resulting in a change in the properties of the lipid .
the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
alterations undergone by nuclei at the molecular and morphological level as part of the execution phase of apoptosis .
the compaction of chromatin during apoptosis .
the breakdown of the nucleus into small membrane - bounded compartments ,  or blebs ,  each of which contain compacted dna .
protection of epithelial surfaces of the gastrointestinal tract from proteolytic and caustic digestive agents .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
the deposition of hydroxyapatite ,  a form of calcium phosphate with the formula ca10 ( po4 ) 6 ( oh ) 2 ,  in bone tissue .
any of several large complexes that contain two or three dynein heavy chains and several light chains ,  and have microtubule motor activity .
the directed movement of cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 - beta - ol ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell or cells .
an envelope that surrounds a bacterial cell and includes the cytoplasmic membrane and everything external ,  encompassing the periplasmic space ,  cell wall ,  and outer membrane if present .
complex formed in muscle cells between the membrane of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and invaginations of the plasma membrane  ( t - tubules )  .
invagination of the plasma membrane of a muscle cell that extends inward from the cell surface around each myofibril .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized monocyte acquires the specialized features of an osteoclast .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium  ( aka flagellum )  that contributes to the movement of a flagellated sperm .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a melanocyte .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the adrenal gland over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process ,  occurring in the embryo ,  by which the anatomical structures of the limb are generated and organized .
a cascade of processes induced by the cell cycle regulator phosphoprotein p53 ,  or an equivalent protein ,  in response to the detection of dna damage .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with cyclins ,  proteins whose levels in a cell varies markedly during the cell cycle ,  rising steadily until mitosis ,  then falling abruptly to zero .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
the controlled breakdown of any cell membrane in the context of a normal process such as autophagy .
the expulsion of feces from the rectum .
the long process of a neuron that conducts nerve impulses ,  usually away from the cell body to the terminals and varicosities ,  which are sites of storage and release of neurotransmitter .
a neuron projection that has a short ,  tapering ,  morphology .
the migrating motile tip of a growing neuron projection ,  where actin accumulates ,  and the actin cytoskeleton is the most dynamic .
any part of a cell where non - isotropic growth takes place .
any process in which an organism enters and maintains a periodic ,  readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity .
a wavelike sequence of involuntary muscular contraction and relaxation that passes along a tubelike structure ,  such as the intestine ,  impelling the contents onwards .
the process in which a multicellular organism ,  a unicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
growth of fungi as threadlike ,  tubular structures that may contain multiple nuclei and may or may not be divided internally by septa ,  or cross - walls .
polarized accumulation of cytoskeletal proteins  ( including f - actin )  and regulatory proteins in a cell .
the contractile fiber of smooth muscle cells .
any process involved in the maturation of a precursor small subunit  ( ssu )  ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  molecule into a mature ssu - rrna molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with hemoglobin ,  an oxygen carrying ,  conjugated protein containing four heme groups and globin .
a thin cytoplasmic bridge formed between daughter cells at the end of cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any bmp receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tgf - beta receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of any tgf - beta receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bmp signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the bmp signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the rate ,  direction or extent of axon extension .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon outgrowth .
any series of molecular signals initiated by a ligand binding to an receptor located within a cell .
a complex composed of rna of the small nuclear rna  ( snrna )  class and protein ,  found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell .
behavior in a fully developed and mature organism .
feeding behavior in a larval  ( immature )  organism .
behavior in a larval form of an organism ,  an immature organism that must undergo metamorphosis to assume adult characteristics .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cyclic nucleotide ,  a nucleotide in which the phosphate group is in diester linkage to two positions on the sugar residue .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with camp ,  the nucleotide cyclic amp  ( adenosine 3' , 5' - cyclophosphate )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with adenyl nucleotides ,  any compound consisting of adenosine esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of any of the extra - nucleolar nuclear domains usually visualized by confocal microscopy and fluorescent antibodies to specific proteins .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cajal bodies ,  nuclear bodies that appear ultrastructurally as a tangle of coiled ,  electron - dense threads roughly 0 .5 micrometers in diameter and are enriched in ribonucleoproteins ,  and certain general rna polymerase ii transcription factors .
partial constriction of the cytoplasm of a cell to form a furrow that resembles a cleavage furrow but does not complete cytokinesis .
the directed movement of a neutrophil cell ,  the most numerous polymorphonuclear leukocyte found in the blood ,  in response to an external stimulus ,  usually an infection or wounding .
combining with a neurotransmitter and transmitting the signal to initiate a change in cell activity .
the movement of a leukocyte in response to an external stimulus .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium of hydrogen ions  ( protons )  within a cell or between a cell and its external environment .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding an axon ;  it is a specialized trilaminar random mosaic of protein molecules floating within a fluid matrix of highly mobile phospholipid molecules ,  7 - 8 nm in thickness .
modulates the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a gtpase .
construction of the eggshell ,  a product of the somatic follicle cell epithelium and a structure that supports the egg in a hostile environment ,  minimizing water loss whilst allowing gas exchanges essential for embryonic respiration .
the directed movement of substances along cytoskeletal fibers such as microfilaments or microtubules within a cell .
the process that occurs during oogenesis involving the ovarian follicle cells ,  somatic cells which surround the germ cells of an ovary .
any process by which an organism or tissue maintains a population of germ - line stem cells .
the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any process that controls the length of actin filaments in a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of actin filaments by the addition of actin monomers to a filament .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin polymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin polymerization .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a granulocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epithelial cell ,  any of the cells making up an epithelium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a polarized epithelial cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of polarized epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of polarized epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of polarized epithelial cell differentiation .
the portion of the cytoskeleton that lies just beneath the plasma membrane .
the portion of the actin cytoskeleton ,  comprising filamentous actin and associated proteins ,  that lies just beneath the plasma membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures in the cell cortex ,  i .e .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of actin - based cytoskeletal structures in the cell cortex ,  i .e .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the thyroid gland over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the forebrain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the midbrain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the hindbrain over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the notochord over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the formation of a thickening of the neural ectoderm in the head region of the vertebrate embryo which develops into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
the process resulting in the transition of the otic placode into the otic vesicle ,  a transient embryonic structure formed during development of the vertebrate inner ear .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any collagen trimer that passes through a lipid bilayer membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of polarized microtubule - based cytoskeletal structures .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of polarized cytoskeletal structures .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of astral microtubules ,  any of the spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles .
an integral membrane complex that possesses nadh oxidoreductase activity .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the presence of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  or other er - related stress ;  results in changes in the regulation of transcription and translation .
the portion of the microtubule cytoskeleton that lies just beneath the plasma membrane .
a nonmembrane - bound oligomeric protein complex that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules .
a structure lying external to one or more cells ,  which provides structural support ,  biochemical or biomechanical cues for cells or tissues .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pancreas over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the exocrine pancreas over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the endocrine pancreas over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a microtubule organizing center ,  a structure from which microtubules grow .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures containing both actin and myosin or paramyosin .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a filament composed of myosin molecules .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a filament composed of myosin molecules .
a membrane - bounded organelle of ciliated protozoan cells that contains a diploid copy of the cell's complete genome .
any process in which rna molecules inactivate expression of target genes .
the dna metabolic process in which micronuclear - limited sequences ,  internal eliminated sequences  ( ies )  and breakage eliminated sequences  ( bes )  are removed from the developing macronucleus  ( anlage )  of a ciliate .
cleavage of double - stranded rna molecules by an rnaseiii - family enzyme to produce small rnas  ( generally 20 - 30 nucleotides ,  depending on species )  with biological function .
regulated cleavage of the developing macronuclear genome at a limited number of chromosome breakage sites  ( cbs )  .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary microrna transcript into a pre - microrna molecule .
any process involved in the conversion of a pre - microrna transcript into a mature microrna molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of methyl groups to histones .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of methyl groups to histones .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of methyl groups to histones .
the process occurring during the embryonic phase whose specific outcome is the progression of the eye over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that establishes the spatial arrangement of nuclear pores within the nuclear envelope .
a membrane that is one of the two lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope or the outermost membrane of single membrane bound organelle .
a series of molecular signals in which a stress - activated protein kinase  ( sapk )  cascade relays one or more of the signals .
the regrowth of a lost or destroyed body part ,  such as an organ or tissue .
the regrowth of a lost or destroyed animal organ .
the regrowth of fin tissue following its loss or destruction .
the regrowth of neuronal processes such as axons or dendrites in response to their loss or damage .
the regrowth of axons following their loss or damage .
assembly or disassembly of microtubules by the addition or removal of tubulin heterodimers from a microtubule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization by the addition or removal of tubulin heterodimers from a microtubule .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule depolymerization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule depolymerization .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of structures formed of microtubules and associated proteins in the cytoplasm of a cell .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an rna molecule .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an mrna molecule .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an rrna molecule .
a developmental process involving two tissues in which one tissue  ( the inducer )  produces a signal that directs cell fate commitment of cells in the second tissue  ( the responder )  .
a temporary protrusion or retractile process of a cell ,  associated with flowing movements of the protoplasm ,  and serving for locomotion and feeding .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  with ubiquitin - protein ligation catalyzed by the anaphase - promoting complex ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  with ubiquitin - protein ligation catalyzed by an scf  ( skp1 / cul1 / f - box protein )  complex ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
the component of the vacuolar membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that have some part that penetrates at least one leaflet of the membrane bilayer .
the formation of otoliths during embryogenesis with completion in early postembryonic development .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron projection over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a protein complex involved in membrane fusion ;  a stable ternary complex consisting of a four - helix bundle ,  usually formed from one r - snare and three q - snares with an ionic layer sandwiched between hydrophobic layers .
formation of hard tissues that consist mainly of inorganic compounds ,  and also contain a small amounts of organic matrices that are believed to play important roles in their formation .
the behavior of an organism in response to a sound .
the component of a membrane consisting of the gene products having some covalently attached portion ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor ,  which spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
the component of the plasma membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the cell outer membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of a plasma membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to its cytoplasmic surface ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the component of a plasma membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that have some covalently attached part  ( e .g .
the component of the cell outer membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the area of a motile cell closest to the direction of movement .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding a plasma membrane bounded cell surface projection .
the area of a motile cell opposite to the direction of movement .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding the leading edge of a motile cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a pseudopodium ,  a temporary protrusion or retractile process of a cell ,  associated with cellular movement .
the assembly of a pseudopodium by rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton and overlying membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of pseudopodia .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of pseudopodia .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of pseudopodia .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclase activity .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a cyclase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a cyclase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of guanylate cyclase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of guanylate cyclase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of guanylate cyclase activity .
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of a retinal ganglion cell  ( rgc )  is directed to its target in the brain in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the component of the organelle membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the organelle membrane consisting of the gene products having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the component of the endosome membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the endosome membrane consisting of the gene products having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the component of the mitochondrial inner membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the mitochondrial inner membrane consisting of the gene products having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the component of the mitochondrial outer membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the mitochondrial outer membrane consisting of the gene products having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the component of the vacuolar membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of an organelle membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the component of an endosome membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the component of mitochondrial inner membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the component of a mitochondrial outer membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle fusion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle fusion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle fusion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing ,  the process in which a cell brings about the death of another cell ,  either in the same or a different organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of ubiquitin groups to a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of ubiquitin groups to a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of ubiquitin groups to a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a carboxylic acid ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
a vesicle found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
any process that modulates an organism's tendency or ability to rise or float in a fluid medium such as water or air ,  often through the use of stored gases .
the midline of aligned thick filaments in a sarcomere ;  location of specific proteins that link thick filaments .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna 3' - end processing ,  any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an mrna molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna 3' - end processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna 3' - end processing .
a process in which force is generated within fast - twitch skeletal muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within slow - twitch skeletal muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fast - twitch skeletal muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fast - twitch skeletal muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fast - twitch skeletal muscle contraction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of slow - twitch skeletal muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of slow - twitch skeletal muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of slow - twitch skeletal muscle contraction .
the reformation of the nuclear envelope following its breakdown in the context of a normal process .
the assembly of dna ,  histone proteins ,  other associated proteins ,  and sometimes rna ,  into chromatin structure ,  beginning with the formation of the basic unit ,  the nucleosome ,  followed by organization of the nucleosomes into higher order structures ,  ultimately giving rise to a complex organization of specific domains within the nucleus .
a localization process that acts on a protein complex ;  the complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a cilium which may have a variable arrangement of axonemal microtubules and also contains molecular motors .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in dynamic structural changes to the arrangement of constituent parts of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
any process that activates or increases the rate of progression from anaphase / telophase  ( high mitotic cdk activity )  to g1  ( low mitotic cdk activity )  .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a brain - derived neurotrophic factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the brain - derived neurotrophic factor receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the brain - derived neurotrophic factor receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the brain - derived neurotrophic factor receptor signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent ,  or location of dna - templated transcription termination ,  the process in which transcription is completed ;  the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases ,  the rna - dna hybrid dissociates ,  and rna polymerase releases the dna .
the mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that delays or arrests cell cycle progression until cells have reached a critical size .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that monitors cell size ,  and negatively regulates cell cycle progression between g1 and s phase until a critical size is reached .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that monitors cell size ,  and negatively regulates cell cycle progression between g2 and m phase until a critical size is reached .
a cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression in response to changes in dna structure by monitoring the integrity of the dna .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression through the g1 / s transition of the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
a cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression from g2 to m phase in the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
a cell cycle checkpoint that originates from the mitotic or meiotic spindle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of membrane rafts ,  small  ( 10 - 200 nm )  ,  heterogeneous ,  highly dynamic ,  sterol -  and sphingolipid - enriched membrane domains that compartmentalize cellular processes .
the process that establishes the spatial arrangement of membrane rafts within a cellular membrane .
the attachment of a cell to the underlying substrate via adhesion molecules .
the junction between the axon of a motor neuron and a muscle fiber .
a centrosome from which one pole of a mitotic or meiotic spindle is organized .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of fever generation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate or extent of fever generation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of fever generation .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
the proteolytic processing of an inactive enzyme to an active form .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of cells of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any homeostatic process in which an organism produces heat ,  thereby raising its internal temperature .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of heat generation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate or extent of heat generation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of heat generation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclin - dependent protein serine / threonine kinase activity contributing to the g2 / m transition of the cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclin - dependent protein serine / threonine kinase activity contributing to the g2 / m transition of the cell cycle .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a lipopolysaccharide  ( lps )  to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling in response to detection of lipopolysaccharide .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling in response to detection of lipopolysaccharide .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling in response to detection of lipopolysaccharide .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the dark - staining region of a sarcomere ,  in which myosin thick filaments are present ;  the center is traversed by the paler h zone ,  which in turn contains the m line .
a relatively pale zone traversing the center of the a band of a sarcomere ,  visible in relaxed muscle fibers ;  consists of the central portion of thick  ( myosin )  filaments that are not overlapped by thin  ( actin )  filaments .
a region of a sarcomere that appears as a light band on each side of the z disc ,  comprising a region of the sarcomere where thin  ( actin )  filaments are not overlapped by thick  ( myosin )  filaments ;  contains actin ,  troponin ,  and tropomyosin ;  each sarcomere includes half of an i band at each end .
a series of molecular signals mediated by tor  ( target of rapamycin )  proteins ,  members of the phosphoinositide  ( pi )  3 - kinase related kinase  ( pikk )  family that act as serine / threonine kinases in response to nutrient availability or growth factors .
a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucocorticoids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucocorticoids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucocorticoids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucocorticoids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucocorticoids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucocorticoids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of the phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own residues .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of the phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own residues .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own residues .
either of the lipid bilayers that surround the nucleus and form the nuclear envelope ;  excludes the intermembrane space .
either of the lipid bilayers that surround the mitochondrion and form the mitochondrial envelope .
a double membrane structure enclosing an organelle ,  including two lipid bilayers and the region between them .
the outer ,  i .e .cytoplasm - facing in a cellular organelle ,  lipid bilayer of an organelle envelope .
the region between the inner and outer lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope .
the enclosed volume within a sealed membrane or between two sealed membranes .
a multilayered structure surrounding all or part of a cell ;  encompasses one or more lipid bilayers ,  and may include a cell wall layer ;  also includes the space between layers .
the volume enclosed by the nuclear inner membrane .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane .
the volume enclosed by the membrane or protein that forms a vesicle .
a compartment that consists of a lumen and an enclosing membrane ,  and is part of an organelle .
any of the thin ,  flattened membrane - bounded compartments that form the central portion of the golgi complex .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid bbeta - oxidation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid beta - oxidation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid beta - oxidation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tor signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tor signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tor signaling .
a membrane - bounded intracellular vesicle formed by maturation of an early phagosome following the ingestion of particulate material by phagocytosis ;  during maturation ,  phagosomes acquire markers of late endosomes and lysosomes .
a prominent mass in the cytoplasm of previtellogenic oocytes .
the proteolytic processing of trypsinogen to the active form ,  trypsin .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mitochondrial dna .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of mitochondrial dna .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a ciliary basal body ,  a short cylindrical array of microtubules and associated proteins found at the base of a eukaryotic cilium  ( also called flagellum )  .
a cell extension caused by localized decoupling of the cytoskeleton from the plasma membrane and characterized by rapid formation ,  rounded shape ,  and scarcity of organelles within the protrusion .
the assembly of a bleb ,  a cell extension caused by localized decoupling of the cytoskeleton from the plasma membrane and characterized by rapid formation ,  rounded shape ,  and scarcity of organelles within the protrusion .
a process in which a protein or protein complex is maintained in a specific location in the cell cortex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of deoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endodeoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of nuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of deoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of deoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of endodeoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endodeoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process which modulates appetite ,  the desire or physical craving for food .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of carbohydrate phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphate from a carbohydrate phosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose - 6 - phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: d - glucose 6 - phosphate  +  h2o = d - glucose  +  phosphate .
any process that initiates the activity of an inactive protein kinase .
the eventual plane of cell division  ( also known as cell cleavage or cytokinesis )  in a dividing cell .
the cleavage furrow is a plasma membrane invagination at the cell division site .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of telomeres ,  terminal regions of a linear chromosome that include the telomeric dna repeats and associated proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process that affects and monitors the activity of telomeric proteins and the length of telomeric dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process that affects and monitors the activity of telomeric proteins and the length of telomeric dna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process that affects and monitors the activity of telomeric proteins and the length of telomeric dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of telomeric repeats by telomerase .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of telomeric repeats by telomerase .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of telomeric repeats by telomerase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter dopamine .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter dopamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter dopamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a methyl group is covalently attached to a molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of creating protein polymers .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of creating protein polymers .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of creating protein polymers .
a type of synapse occurring between an axon and a dendritic spine or dendritic shaft .
an assembly of four or five subunits which form a structure with an extracellular n - terminus and a large loop that together form the ligand binding domain .
the process in which the structure and material content of mature peripheral nervous system myelin is kept in a functional state .
the process in which the wraps of cell membrane that constitute myelin are laid down around an axon in the central or peripheral nervous system .
the process in which the wraps of cell membrane that constitute myelin are laid down around an axon by an oligodendrocyte in the central nervous system .
the process in which the wraps of cell membrane that constitute myelin are laid down around an axon by an oligodendrocyte in the peripheral nervous system .
the process in which a glial cell membrane closes around an axon in the central nervous system .
the process in which a schwann cell membrane closes around an axon in the peripheral nervous system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chondrocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chondrocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chondrocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hormones .
the directed movement of lipids within cells .
the directed movement of sterols within cells .
the directed movement of cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 - beta - ol ,  within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of cholesterol into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of cholesterol into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of cholesterol into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of cholesterol within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of cholesterol within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of cholesterol within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
the portion of the photoreceptor cell cilium linking the photoreceptor inner and outer segments .
any process in which a melanosome is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
the directed movement of a melanosome to a specific location .
the directed movement of melanosomes into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the activity of a transporter .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a transporter .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a transporter .
any process that modulates the activity of an ion transporter .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an ion transporter .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an ion transporter .
any process in which a lysosome is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the component of an lysosome membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
an actin - based protrusion from the apical surface of auditory and vestibular hair cells and of neuromast cells .
a bundle of cross - linked stereocilia ,  arranged around a kinocilium on the apical surface of a sensory hair cell  ( e .g .
an assembly of actin filaments that are on the same axis but may be oriented with the same or opposite polarities and may be packed with different levels of tightness .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
a dense network of actin filaments found beneath the apical cell surface of hair cells ,  and into which stereocilia are inserted .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a melanosome .
a protein modification process in which one or more groups of a small protein ,  such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin - like protein ,  are covalently attached to a target protein .
the directed movement of membrane - bounded vesicles from recycling endosomes back to the plasma membrane where they are recycled for further rounds of transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell ,  and its separation into two daughter cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell ,  and its separation into two daughter cells .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the golgi apparatus of a cell or between the golgi and its surroundings .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the endoplasmic reticulum of a cell or between the endoplasmic reticulum and its surroundings .
the process in which the anatomical structures of an otolith are generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to an otolith .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two multicellular organisms .
a cellular process that is involved in cytokinesis  ( the division of the cytoplasm of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells )  .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a phosphoprotein phosphatase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a phosphoprotein phosphatase .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of the rostro - caudal axis of a somite ,  prior to the morphological formation of a somite boundary .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that modulates the size of a cellular component .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein in a mitochondrion .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a ribonucleotide ,  any compound consisting of a ribonucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose moiety .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a purine ribonucleotide ,  any compound consisting of a purine ribonucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose moiety .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an adenyl ribonucleotide ,  any compound consisting of adenosine esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose moiety .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding a neuron projection .
the component of the mitochondrial membrane consisting of the gene products having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the directed movement of a protein from one location to another within a lipid bilayer .
the appearance of a chemokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of chemokine production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of chemokine production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of chemokine production .
any process that modulates the activity of a monooxygenase .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a monooxygenase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a monooxygenase .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the covalent transfer of a methyl group to c - 5 or n - 4 of cytosine in a dna molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of atp hydrolysis by an atpase .
any process that activates or increases the rate of atp hydrolysis by an atpase .
the regulated release of bile acid ,  composed of any of a group of steroid carboxylic acids occurring in bile ,  by a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by a dna - dependent rna polymerase .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by a dna - dependent rna polymerase .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by a dna - dependent rna polymerase .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  ( cooh )  group or anion  ( coo -  )  .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a uropod ,  a rigid membrane projection with related cytoskeletal components at the trailing edge of a lymphocyte or other cell in the process of migrating or being activated .
the plasma membrane of a neuron cell body  -  excludes the plasma membrane of cell projections such as axons and dendrites .
the progression of the glomerulus over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
all of the contents of a dendrite ,  excluding the surrounding plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a process that reduces the internal ph of a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a process that reduces the internal ph of a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a process that reduces the internal ph of a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of karyogamy ,  the creation of a single nucleus from multiple nuclei as a result of membrane fusion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress - activated mapk cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress - activated mapk cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress - activated mapk cascade .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the specification ,  formation or maintenance of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving polysaccharides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of polysaccharides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the spindle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression such that an expression pattern recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to an activin receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any activin receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any activin receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any activin receptor signaling pathway .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
the controlled release of a substance by a tissue .
the expansion of a mononuclear cell population by cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cytokinetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving collagen ,  any of a group of fibrous proteins of very high tensile strength that form the main component of connective tissue in animals .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of collagen ,  any of a group of fibrous proteins of very high tensile strength that form the main component of connective tissue in animals .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of collagen ,  any of a group of fibrous proteins of very high tensile strength that form the main component of connective tissue in animals .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of collagen ,  any of a group of fibrous proteins of very high tensile strength that form the main component of connective tissue in animals .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of collagen ,  any of a group of fibrous proteins of very high tensile strength that form the main component of connective tissue in animals .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides ,  catalyzed by rna polymerase ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the actin cytoskeleton .
a supramolecular fiber containing myosin heavy chains ,  plus associated light chains and other proteins ,  in which the myosin heavy chains are arranged into a filament .
the disaggregation of a protein - containing macromolecular complex into its constituent components .
the process in which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a cell part are generated and organized .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a macromolecular complex containing separate protein and lipid molecules .
the expansion of a muscle cell population by cell division .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tetrapyrroles ,  natural pigments containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
the chemical reactions and pathways leading to the formation of tetrapyrroles ,  natural pigments containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the sarcoplasmic reticulum .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the sarcoplasmic reticulum .
any apoptotic process in a myeloid cell ,  a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  mast cell ,  megakaryocyte ,  or erythroid lineage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid cell apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a myeloid cell apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid cell apoptotic process .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in a cell .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a t cell via a differentiation pathway dependent upon transit through the thymus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation in the thymus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation in the thymus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation in the thymus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of one or more phosphate groups to a histone protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of one or more phosphate groups to a histone protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of one or more phosphate groups to a histone protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - serine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - serine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - serine .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a progesterone receptor .
the process in which immune receptor v ,  d ,  and j ,  or v and j gene segments ,  depending on the specific receptor ,  are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
the process in which immunoglobulin gene segments are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
the process in which t cell receptor v ,  d ,  and j ,  or v and j gene segments ,  depending on the specific locus ,  are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex that couples atp hydrolysis to the transport of protons across a concentration gradient .
a protein complex that forms part of a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex and carries out proton transport across a membrane .
a protein complex that forms part of a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex and catalyzes atp hydrolysis or synthesis .
a protein complex that forms part of a proton - transporting v - type atpase and mediates proton transport across a membrane .
a protein complex that forms part of a proton - transporting v - type atpase and catalyzes atp hydrolysis .
a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex found in the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of a ubiquitin group to a histone protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of a ubiquitin group to a histone protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of a ubiquitin group to a histone protein .
a cell cycle process that results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell after meiosis ,  resulting in the separation of the original cell into two daughter cells .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a tumor necrosis factor to a receptor on the surface of a cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of sumo groups to a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of sumo groups to a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of sumo groups to a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform amines .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
the dna - dependent dna replication that occurs in the nucleus of eukaryotic organisms as part of the cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the dna - dependent dna replication that occurs in the nucleus of eukaryotic organisms as part of the cell cycle .
an axon part that is a gap in the myelin where voltage - gated sodium channels cluster and saltatory conduction is executed .
an axon part that is located adjacent to the nodes of ranvier and surrounded by lateral loop portions of myelin sheath .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the sliding movement of actin thin filaments and myosin thick filaments past each other .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population in the midbrain .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the t - tubule .
a cell cycle checkpoint that ensures accurate chromosome replication and segregation by preventing progression through a meiotic cell cycle until conditions are suitable for the cell to proceed to the next stage .
a cell cycle checkpoint that acts during a mitotic cell cycle and prevents the initiation of mitosis until dna replication is complete ,  thereby ensuring that progeny inherit a full complement of the genome .
a dna integrity checkpoint that acts to inhibit the g2 / m1 transition of the meiotic cell cycle and prevents the initiation of nuclear division until dna replication is complete .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a meiotic cell cycle until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a fin over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a fin are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the anal fin over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the caudal fin over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the dorsal fin over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a medial fin over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pectoral fin over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pelvic fin over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an organelle .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a carbohydrate within an organism or cell .
the progression of the floor plate over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the floor plate is generated and organized .
the modification of histone h2a by addition of one or more ubiquitin groups .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a multicellular organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone is directed to a specific target site along the dorsal - ventral body axis in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone is directed to a specific target site along the anterior - posterior body axis in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in the cytosol .
the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in the endoplasmic reticulum .
the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a catecholamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a catecholamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the multiplication or reproduction of osteoblasts ,  resulting in the expansion of an osteoblast cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoblast proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of osteoblast proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of osteoblast proliferation .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of polysaccharides ,  polymers of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
catalysis of the reaction: 3 , 3' , 5' - triiodo - l - thyronine  +  iodide  +  a  +  h +  = l - thyroxine  +  ah2 .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of dna from deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template and a 3'hydroxyl group .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process of regulating the production and elimination of erythrocytes within an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
the attachment of a cell to a second cell of the identical type via adhesion molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of homotypic cell - cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of homotypic cell - cell adhesion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of homotypic cell - cell adhesion .
the adhesion of one erythrocyte to one or more other erythrocytes via adhesion molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of erythrocyte aggregation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of erythrocyte aggregation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of erythrocyte aggregation .
catalysis of the acetylation of an amino acid residue of a peptide or protein ,  according to the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  peptide = coa  +  n - acetylpeptide .
the process in which a carbohydrate is transported across a membrane .
a process in which an ion is transported across a membrane .
the addition a sulfur atom to a nucleotide in a trna molecule .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane ,  by the fusion of the plasma membranes of two or more individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides ,  catalyzed by rna polymerase ii .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides ,  catalyzed by rna polymerase ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving urea .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a gtpase .
the process in which the accumulation of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum triggers a response that positively regulates autophagy .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving primary alcohols .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of primary alcohols .
a cellular process that results in the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a cell junction .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cell junction .
the organization process that preserves a cell junction in a stable functional or structural state .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an adherens junction .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an adherens junction .
the maintenance of an adherens junction .
a spherical particle with a hydrophobic core of triglycerides and / or cholesterol esters ,  surrounded by an amphipathic monolayer of phospholipids ,  cholesterol and apolipoproteins .
a lipoprotein particle ,  rich in cholesterol esters and low in triglycerides that is typically composed of apob100 and apoe and has a density of 1 .02 - 1 .06 g / ml and a diameter of between 20 - 25 nm .
a plasma lipoprotein particle that has a hydrophobic core enriched in triglycerides surrounded by an amphipathic monolayer of phospholipids ,  cholesterol and apolipoproteins .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the external part of the cell wall and / or plasma membrane .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic chromatin that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of dna - dependent transcription .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleobase - containing small molecule: a nucleobase ,  a nucleoside ,  or a nucleotide .
the removal of one or more electrons from a lipid ,  with or without the concomitant removal of a proton or protons ,  by reaction with an electron - accepting substance ,  by addition of oxygen or by removal of hydrogen .
the process in which a uropod detaches from the cell substrate and retracts the rear of a migrating cell .
any process that results in the conversion of one or more primary non - coding rna  ( ncrna )  transcripts into one or more mature ncrna molecules .
catalysis of the reaction: 3' - phosphoadenosine 5' - phosphosulfate  +  heparan sulfate = adenosine 3' , 5' - bisphosphate  +  sulfated heparan sulfate .
a process in which a protein transports or maintains the localization of another protein to the nucleus .
the process in which calcium salts are deposited into calcareous tooth structures such as dental enamel ,  dentin and cementum .
the volume enclosed by the synaptic vesicle membrane .
catalysis of the reaction: phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate  +  h2o = phosphatidylinositol phosphate  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the removal of the 5 - phosphate group of a phosphatidylinositol phosphate .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the sharp ventral turn performed by the male as he approaches either the hermaphrodite head or tail ,  whilst trying to locate his partner's vulva .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a protein complex ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
a protein complex localization process that takes place at the cellular level ;  as a result ,  a protein complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the directed movement of the mitochondrion to a specific location ,  by a process involving microtubules .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cortisol ,  the steroid hormone 11 - beta - 17 , 21 - trihydroxypregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cortisol ,  the steroid hormone 11 - beta - 17 , 21 - trihydroxypregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of retinoic acid ,  one of the three components that makes up vitamin a .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving non - coding rna transcripts  ( ncrnas )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of non - coding rna transcripts  ( ncrnas )  .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a retinoic acid receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands that results in the spatial identity of regions along the anterior - posterior axis of the pronephros .
the developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within the pronephros along the anterior / posterior axis to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate .
a protein complex that spans a membrane and forms a water - filled channel across the phospholipid bilayer allowing selective ion transport down its electrochemical gradient .
an ion channel complex through which cations pass .
an ion channel complex through which calcium ions pass .
an ion channel complex through which potassium ions pass .
an ion channel complex through which sodium ions pass .
an ion channel complex through which chloride ions pass .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of one or more nucleosomes .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions  ( fe )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
the controlled breakdown of the basement membrane in the context of a normal process such as imaginal disc eversion .
the modification of histone h4 by addition of one or more methyl groups to lysine at position 20 of the histone .
the volume enclosed by the membrane of a secretory granule .
the modification of a histone by addition of one or more methyl groups to a lysine residue .
the modification of a histone by addition of a methyl group to an arginine residue .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the peptide cleavage of mitochondrial proteins ,  including cleavage contributing to their import .
the initial contact step made between the sperm plasma membrane and outer layer of the egg during fertilization .
formation and organization of an aster composed of microtubule arrays originating from the sperm basal body and extending virtually to the egg periphery .
the directed movement of the male and female pronuclei towards each other prior to their fusion .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the embryonic heart tube over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized structural and / or functional features of a cell that will form part of the cardiac organ of an individual .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of an acetyl group to a histone protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of an acetyl group to a histone protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of an acetyl group to a histone protein .
the assembly and organization of an axoneme ,  the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia  ( also called flagella )  in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance polarization of a cell's architecture along its apical / basal axis so that the apical and basal regions of the cell have different membrane ,  extracellular matrix and sub - membrane cellular components .
the specification and formation of the polarity of a cell along its apical / basal axis .
retaining the established polarization of a cell along its apical / basal axis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in the behavior of an organism as a result of a nicotine stimulus .
the process in which the anatomical structures of appendages are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a limb are generated and organized .
the process ,  occurring in the embryo ,  by which the anatomical structures of the appendage are generated and organized .
the process ,  occurring in the embryo ,  by which the anatomical structures of the hindlimbs are generated and organized .
the process ,  occurring in the embryo ,  by which the anatomical structures of the pectoral fin are generated and organized .
the process ,  occurring in the embryo ,  by which the anatomical structures of the pelvic fin are generated and organized .
the process ,  occurring in the embryo ,  by which the anatomical structures of the medial fin are generated and organized .
the process ,  occurring in the embryo ,  by which the anatomical structures of the dorsal fin are generated and organized .
the process ,  occurring in the embryo ,  by which the anatomical structures of the embryonic anal fin are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the forelimb are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the hindlimb are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the pectoral fin are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the pelvic fin are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the medial fin are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the dorsal fin are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the caudal fin are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the anal fin are generated and organized .
creation of the central hole of a tube in an anatomical structure through which gases and / or liquids flow .
creation of the central hole of a tube in an open tracheal system through which gases flow .
ensuring that a tube is of the correct length and diameter .
ensuring that an epithelial tube in an open tracheal system is of the correct length and diameter .
ensuring that tracheal cells form and maintain tubular structures with the correct size and shape for their position in the network .
the stages of blood cell formation that take place within the embryo .
behavior directed towards society ,  or taking place between members of the same species .
fine - tuning the spatial position of an organism in response to variability in their environment .
the specific behavior of an organism during the emergence from an egg shell .
the emergence of an immature organism from a protective structure .
any process of posttranscriptional gene inactivation  ( silencing )  mediated by small rna molecules that may trigger rna  ( often mrna )  degradation or negatively regulate mrna translation .
downregulation of gene expression through the action of micrornas  ( mirnas )  ,  endogenous 21 - 24 nucleotide small rnas processed from stem - loop rna precursors  ( pre - mirnas )  .
cleavage of stem - loop rna precursors into micrornas  ( mirnas )  ,  a class of small rnas that primarily silence genes by blocking the translation of mrna transcripts into protein ,  or by increasing the degradation of non - protein - coding rna transcripts .
a series of molecular signals initiated by glutamate binding to a glutamate receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by the movement of ions through a channel in the receptor complex .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized .
the vesicular release of glutamate from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of glutamate receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
a cytoskeleton - like structure ,  originating from the basal body at the proximal end of a cilium ,  and extending proximally toward the cell nucleus .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nuclear hormone receptor ,  a ligand - dependent receptor found in the nucleus of the cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a steroid hormone receptor .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the gonads are generated and organized .
the increase in size or mass of an entire multicellular organism ,  as opposed to cell growth .
the increase in size or mass of an organ .
progression of the endocrine system over time ,  from its formation to a mature structure .
progression of the exocrine system over time ,  from its formation to a mature structure .
the regionalization process that divides an organism or part of an organism into a series of semi - repetitive parts ,  or segments ,  often arranged along a longitudinal axis .
division of the central nervous system into a series of semi - repetitive parts or segments .
division of the brain into a series of semi - repetitive parts or segments .
partitioning of the blastoderm embryo into trunk segmental units .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tube over time ,  from its initial formation to a mature structure .
any process that modulates the diameter of a tube .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a protein .
any process the stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a protein .
any process the stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a protein .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a hair cell .
the series of molecular signals mediated by the serine / threonine kinase hippo or one of its orthologs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hippo signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hippo signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hippo signaling .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of triglyceride within a cell or between a cell and its external environment .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when atp has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a slit protein to a roundabout  ( robo )  family receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the roundabout signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the roundabout signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the roundabout signaling pathway .
the modification of histones by addition of a phosphate group to a serine residue .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained at the synapse ,  the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell .
a mapk cascade that contributes to an innate immune response ,  a defense response mediated by germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens .
any process in which a protein is maintained in the endoplasmic reticulum and prevented from moving elsewhere .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another that will contribute to the differentiation of an endothelial cell that will form de novo blood vessels and tubes .
the establishment of the diencephalon with respect to the left and right halves .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a transforming growth factor beta receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to determination of organismal asymmetry with respect to the left and right halves .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of any tgf - beta receptor signaling pathway that is involved in the determination of organismal asymmetry with regard to its left and right halves .
determination of the asymmetric location of the pancreas with respect to the left and right halves of the organism .
the segregation of angioblasts into discrete arterial and venous vessels from one common precursor vessel .
the directional migration of angioblast cells as part of selective angioblast sprouting ,  which results in angioblast segregation into arterial and venous populations .
the orderly movement of angioblasts ,  cells involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
the directed movement of angioblasts from the lateral mesoderm to the midline which occurs as part of the formation of the early midline vasculature .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of an extracellular ligand to a notch receptor on the surface of the target cell that contributes to heart induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of an extracellular ligand to a notch receptor on the surface of the target cell that contributes to heart induction .
the removal of an alkyl group from one or more nucleotides within an dna molecule .
removal of the methyl group from one or more nucleotides within a dna molecule involving the oxidation  ( i .e .
the modification of histone h2a by addition of a single ubiquitin group .
the establishment of the nervous system with respect to the left and right halves .
removal of the initiating methionine or formylmethionine residue from a protein that contributes to protein maturation ,  the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin binding .
any process that stops or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin binding .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin binding .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via effectors other than beta - catenin .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a receptor binding to an extracellular purine or purine derivative and transmitting the signal to a heterotrimeric g - protein complex to initiate a change in cell activity .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a receptor binding to an extracellular purine nucleotide to initiate a change in cell activity .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location within the extracellular region .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands ,  which contributes to hemopoiesis .
the progression of the intrahepatic bile ducts over time ,  from their formation to the mature structure .
the deposition of hydroxyapatite ,  involved in the progression of the skeleton from its formation to its mature state .
maintaining the structure and function of the blood - brain barrier ,  thus ensuring specific regulated transport of substances  ( e .g .
the transfer of information occurring at the level of a multicellular organism .
the specific behavior of an organism in response to a novel environment or stimulus .
the specific movement from place to place of an organism in response to a novel environment .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a smooth muscle cell of the intestine .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuromast hair cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anterior lateral line neuromast hair cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a posterior lateral line neuromast hair cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs when a neuromast hair cell progresses from its initial formation to its mature state .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs when a posterior lateral line neuromast hair cell progresses from its initial formation to its mature state .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a mitochondrial protein .
the orderly movement of a hematopoietic stem cell from one site to another .
a process in which a sodium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the multiplication or reproduction of common myeloid progenitor cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a hepatic stellate cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  hormone ,  cellular ligand or soluble factor .
the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes along microtubules within a cilium that contributes to cilium assembly .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population that contributes to compound eye morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the ph of the lysosomal lumen ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
the process in which the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve is generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve .
the orderly movement of a motor neuron precursor cell that contributes to formation of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve .
a non - membranous macromolecular complex containing proteins and translationally silenced mrnas .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the pronephric glomerulus are generated and organized .
the progression of the pronephric proximal tubule over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pronephric distal tubule over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the cells of the pronephric nephron tubule as it progresses from its formation to the mature state .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized structural and / or functional features of an angioblast cell .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another that will contribute to the progression of the kidney over time ,  from its formation to the mature organ .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of another organism .
a dna recombination process that results in the equal exchange of genetic material between the recombining dna molecules .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cloaca over time ,  from it's formation to the mature structure .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level and results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the outer segment of a photoreceptor cell ,  a sensory cell that reacts to the presence of light .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of an epithelial cell that characterize the cells of the kidney as it progresses from its formation to the mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a megakaryocyte cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred .
a region of the cilium between the basal body and proximal segment that is characterized by y - shaped assemblages that connect axonemal microtubules to the ciliary membrane .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an amacrine cell ,  an interneuron generated in the inner nuclear layer  ( inl )  of the vertebrate retina .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of an enteroendocrine cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a vascular smooth muscle cell .
the attachment of a developing otolith to the kinocilia of tether cells in the inner ear .
the progression of the aorta over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the dorsal aorta over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of an aorta are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the dorsal aorta are generated and organized .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a skeletal muscle cell ,  a somatic cell located in skeletal muscle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the regulated release of any steroid that acts as a hormone into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of any corticosteroid hormone into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of any glucocorticoid hormone into the circulatory system .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the modification of histone h2a by the addition of an phosphate group to a serine residue at position 139 of the histone .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an endoderm cell ,  a cell of the inner of the three germ layers of the embryo .
the multiplication or reproduction of chondrocytes by cell division ,  resulting in the expansion of their population .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tendon over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process that gives rise to a tendon .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events by which a muscle stretch stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a limb joint are generated and organized .
the negative regulation of cell adhesion process in which a neural crest cell physically separates from the rest of the neural tube .
a large plasma membrane - lined circular pore that perforates the flattened glomerular endothelium and ,  unlike those of other fenestrated capillaries ,  is not spanned by diaphragms ;  the density and size of glomerular fenestrae account ,  at least in part ,  for the high permeability of the glomerular capillary wall to water and small solutes .
a specialized cell - cell junction found between the cells of the excretory system ,  which provides a barrier for filtration of blood or hemolymph .
a specialized cell - cell junction found between the interdigitating foot processes of the glomerular epithelium  ( the podocytes )  in the vertebrate kidney ,  which is adapted for facilitating glomerular filtration .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a filtration diaphragm ,  a specialized cell - cell junction found between the cells of the excretory system ,  which provides a barrier for filtration of blood or hemolymph .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a slit diaphragm ,  specialized cell - cell junction found between the interdigitating foot processes of the glomerular epithelium  ( the podocytes )  in the vertebrate kidney ,  which is adapted for facilitating glomerular filtration .
a membrane - tethered ,  short cylindrical array of microtubules and associated proteins found at the base of a eukaryotic cilium  ( also called flagellum )  that is similar in structure to a centriole and derives from it .
the covalent attachment of a fucosyl group to an acceptor molecule .
the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance ,  that does not require the replacement of preexisting tissues .
intramembranous ossification from the surface of a cartilage element as the perichondrium becomes a periosteum ,  without replacement of cartilage .
ossification that requires the replacement of a preexisting tissue prior to bone tissue formation .
ossification wherein bone tissue forms within ligamentous tissue .
generation of the cleavage furrow ,  a shallow groove in the cell surface near the old metaphase plate that marks the site of cytokinesis .
advancement of the cleavage furrow from the outside of the cell inward towards the center of the cell .
the multiplication or reproduction of germ cells ,  reproductive cells in multicellular organisms ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a small molecule ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the process by which an organism or tissue maintains a population of female germ - line stem cells .
a microtubule - based flagellum  ( or cilium )  that is part of a sperm ,  a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
the orderly movement of a schwann cell from one site to another .
inner arm structure present on the outer doublet microtubules of ciliary and flagellar axonemes .
outer arm structure present on the outer doublet microtubules of ciliary and flagellar axonemes .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an axonemal dynein outer arm ,  an outer arm structure present on the outer doublet microtubules of ciliary and flagellar axonemes .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an axonemal dynein inner arm ,  an inner arm structure present on the outer doublet microtubules of ciliary and flagellar axonemes .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
the change in morphology and behavior of a granulocyte resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the directed movement of a peroxisome along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
self - propelled movement of an organism from one location to another through water ,  often by means of active fin movement .
the response to external or internal stimuli that results in the locomotory process of swimming .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the progression of the atrioventricular canal over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of lymph vessels are generated and organized .
the developmental growth that results in the increase in length of the embryonic heart tube .
the regulated release of ghrelin from a cell .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady - state number of intestinal stem cells within a population of cells .
the process in which a post - anal tail is generated and organized .
generation and organization of a platelet ,  a non - nucleated disk - shaped cell formed by extrusion from megakaryocytes ,  found in the blood of all mammals ,  and mainly involved in blood coagulation .
the ability of a photoreceptor to adjust to varying levels of light .
the processes required for a cone photoreceptor to recover ,  following light activation ,  so that it can respond to a subsequent light stimulus .
the directed movement of an opsin  ( a g protein - coupled receptor of photoreceptor cells )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of sodium ions from inside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the extracellular region .
any of the smallest contractile units of a myofibril  ( striated muscle fiber )  .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure within a nucleoid .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ,  which promotes unfolding of protein substrates ,  and channel opening of the core proteasome .
a process in which a calcium ion  ( ca2 +  )  is transported from the cytosol ,  into the mitochondrial matrix .
the self - renewing division of a neuronal stem cell .
a ribonucleoprotein granule located in the cytoplasm .
the trafficking of synaptic vesicles from the pre - synaptic membrane so the vesicle can dock and prime for another round of exocytosis and neurotransmitter release .
synaptic vesicle recycling where vesicles endocytosed via clathrin - coated pits re - acidify and refill with neurotransmitters after passing through an endosomal intermediate .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell upon exposure to an oxidative stress stimulus .
the region of a neuron that includes the cell body  ( cell soma )  and dendrite ( s )  ,  but excludes the axon .
the characteristic movement of trunk neural crest cells from the neural tube to other locations in the vertebrate embryo .
the movement of trunk neural crest cells from the neural tube ,  travelling dorso - laterally into the ectoderm and continuing toward the ventral midline of the belly .
the movement of trunk neural crest cells from the neural tube ,  travelling ventrally through the anterior half of each sclerotome .
receiving a signal and transmitting it in the cell to initiate a change in cell activity .
binding specifically to a substance  ( cargo )  to deliver it to a transport vesicle .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell through the nik - dependent processing and activation of nf - kappab .
an intracellular protein kinase cascade containing at least a p38 mapk ,  a mapkk and a map3k .
the phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own tyrosine amino acid residues ,  or a tyrosine residue on an identical protein .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a vascular endothelial growth factor  ( vegf )  to a receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a vascular endothelial growth factor  ( vegf )  to a receptor on the surface of a cell ,  which activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a nodal protein to an activin receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a nodal protein to an activin receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the establishment of an organism's body plan or part of an organism with respect to the left and right halves .
a series of intracellular molecular signals mediated by torc1 ;  tor  ( target of rapamycin )  in complex with at least raptor  ( regulatory - associated protein of tor )  ,  or orthologs of ,  and other signaling components .
the process in which the proximal tubule of the pronephric nephron acquires its identity .
the process in which the tubules arranged along the proximal / distal axis of the pronephric nephron acquire their identity .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the pronephric nephron are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a pronephric nephron tubule are generated and organized from an epithelium .
the process in which the distal tubule of the pronephric nephron acquires its identity .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a pronephric nephron proximal tubule are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a pronephric nephron distal tubule are generated and organized .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the cells of the pronephros as it progresses from its formation to the mature state .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of the population in the pronephros .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another and contributes to the progression of the pronephros over time ,  from its formation to the mature organ .
any developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within the pronephros to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pronephric nephron over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a pronephric nephron tubule over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the glomerulus of the pronephric kidney over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pronephric duct over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the pronephric duct are generated and organized .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a virus or viral rna binding to a pattern recognition receptor  ( prr )  located in the cytoplasm .
any series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the cytoplasmic pattern recognition receptor  ( prr )  mda - 5  ( also known as ifih1 )  binding to viral rna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a virus or viral rna binding to a pattern recognition receptor  ( prr )  located in the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a virus or viral rna binding to a pattern recognition receptor  ( prr )  located in the cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the cytoplasmic pattern recognition receptor  ( prr )  mda - 5  ( also known as ifih1 )  binding to viral rna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the cytoplasmic pattern recognition receptor  ( prr )  mda - 5  ( also known as ifih1 )  binding to viral rna .
merging of the virion membrane and a host membrane  ( host plasma membrane or host organelle membrane )  that is involved in the uptake of a virus into a host cell .
the cell cycle process in which the directed movement of the mitotic spindle to a specific location in the cell occurs .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed ,  either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development .
any process that modulates the rate of growth of all or part of an organism .
any process that increases the rate of growth of all or part of an organism .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of the body of an organism so that it reaches its usual body size .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organism to reach its usual body size .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organism to reach its usual body size .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic nuclear division ,  the process in which the nucleus of a diploid cell divides twice forming four haploid cells ,  one or more of which usually function as gametes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression ;  the process is mitotically or meiotically heritable ,  or is stably self - propagated in the cytoplasm of a resting cell ,  and does not entail a change in dna sequence .
any process that modulates the consistent predetermined time point at which an integrated living unit or organism progresses from an initial condition to a later condition and the rate at which this time point is reached .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of temperature .
the incorporation of a metal into a metallo - molybdopterin complex .
the directed movement of substances that are in liquid form in normal living conditions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the behavior of an organism in response to an odor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  histone = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  methyl - histone .
providing the environmental signal that initiates the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration of that signal .
the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the process that results in the generation of glial cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamines .
the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes along microtubules within a cilium ,  mediated by motor proteins .
the migration of individual cells within the blastocyst to help establish the multi - layered body plan of the organism  ( gastrulation )  .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature b cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
a change in morphology and behavior of a macrophage resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the change in morphology and behavior of a neutrophil resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving neurotransmitters ,  any of a group of substances that are released on excitation from the axon terminal of a presynaptic neuron of the central or peripheral nervous system and travel across the synaptic cleft to either excite or inhibit the target cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of a group of substances that are released on excitation from the axon terminal of a presynaptic neuron of the central or peripheral nervous system and travel across the synaptic cleft to either excite or inhibit the target cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the covalently attached nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the covalently attached nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the covalently attached nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a neurotransmitter ,  any chemical substance that is capable of transmitting  ( or inhibiting the transmission of )  a nerve impulse from a neuron to another cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with acetylcholine ,  an acetic acid ester of the organic base choline that functions as a neurotransmitter ,  released at the synapses of parasympathetic nerves and at neuromuscular junctions .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heme ,  any compound of iron complexed in a porphyrin  ( tetrapyrrole )  ring .
the continuous network of membranes encompassing the nuclear outer membrane and the endoplasmic reticulum membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ketones ,  a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the regrowth of lost or destroyed tissues .
coordinated organization of groups of cells in the plane of an embryonic epithelium ,  such that they all orient to similar coordinates .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of ribosome subunits ;  includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of the mature ribosome and of its subunits .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a large ribosomal subunit ;  includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a small ribosomal subunit ;  includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving one of a family of organic molecules consisting of a purine base covalently bonded to a sugar ribose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or deoxyribose  ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  .
a decrease in the diameter of blood vessels ,  especially arteries ,  due to constriction of smooth muscle cells that line the vessels ,  and usually causing an increase in blood pressure .
an increase in the internal diameter of blood vessels ,  especially arterioles or capillaries ,  due to relaxation of smooth muscle cells that line the vessels ,  and usually resulting in a decrease in blood pressure .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of sleep ,  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to an external stimulus .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to light .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of fucose  ( 6 - deoxygalactose )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in organic solvents and relatively insoluble in water .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any chemokine receptor .
the outer membrane of a muscle cell ,  consisting of the plasma membrane ,  a covering basement membrane  ( about 100 nm thick and sometimes common to more than one fiber )  ,  and the associated loose network of collagen fibers .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential ,  the electric potential existing across any membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways occurring at the level of individual cells resulting in the formation of any of a group of naturally occurring ,  biologically active amines ,  such as norepinephrine ,  histamine ,  and serotonin ,  many of which act as neurotransmitters .
an intranuclear focus at which aggregated proteins have been sequestered .
the component of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the assembly of cristae ,  the inwards folds of the inner mitochondrial membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving epinephrine ,  a hormone produced by the medulla of the adrenal glands that increases heart activity ,  improves the power and prolongs the action of muscles ,  and increases the rate and depth of breathing .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving norepinephrine ,  a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla ,  and a neurotransmitter in the sympathetic peripheral nervous system and in some tracts in the central nervous system .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of dopamine ,  a catecholamine neurotransmitter and a metabolic precursor of noradrenaline and adrenaline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine ,  a catecholamine neurotransmitter and a metabolic precursor of noradrenaline and adrenaline .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of norepinephrine ,  a hormone secreted by the adrenal medulla ,  and a neurotransmitter in the sympathetic peripheral nervous system and in some tracts in the central nervous system .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving serotonin  ( 5 - hydroxytryptamine )  ,  a monoamine neurotransmitter occurring in the peripheral and central nervous systems ,  also having hormonal properties .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds that contain an indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  skeleton .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds that contain an indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  skeleton .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of melanins ,  pigments largely of animal origin .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving eye pigments ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  found or utilized in the eye .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any purine nucleoside ,  one of a family of organic molecules consisting of a purine base covalently bonded to a sugar ribose  ( a ribonucleoside )  or deoxyribose  ( a deoxyribonucleoside )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine or pyrimidine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
development of a photoreceptor ,  a cell that responds to incident electromagnetic radiation ,  particularly visible light .
development of a photoreceptor ,  a sensory cell in the eye that reacts to the presence of light .
a tissue - specific ,  membrane - bounded cytoplasmic organelle within which melanin pigments are synthesized and stored .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the ear are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the inner ear are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a dentin - containing tooth over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tooth or teeth over time ,  from formation to the mature structure ( s )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of eye photoreceptor development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of eye photoreceptor development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of eye photoreceptor development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages which are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages that are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages which are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a mechanoreceptor ,  a cell specialized to transduce mechanical stimuli and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized inner cell acquires specialized features of an auditory hair cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized hemopoietic cell acquires specialized features of a gamma - delta t cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat  ( signal transducer and activator of transcription )  protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat  ( signal transducer and activator of transcription )  protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of a phosphate group to a tyrosine residue of a stat  ( signal transducer and activator of transcription )  protein .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hemoglobin ,  an oxygen carrying ,  conjugated protein containing four heme groups and globin .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a neuron to attain its fully functional state .
the process in which myelin sheaths are formed and maintained around neurons .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving retinoic acid ,  one of the three components that makes up vitamin a .
catalysis of the reaction: a phospholipid  +  h2o = a lipid  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: rpo - r'  +  h2o = rpooh  +  r'h .
cytoplasmic organelles ,  spherical or oval in shape ,  that are bounded by a single membrane and contain oxidative enzymes ,  especially those utilizing hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
cytoplasmic bead - like structures of animal cells ,  visible by electron microscope .
a membrane - bounded ,  cytoplasmic secretory granule found in enzyme - secreting cells and visible by light microscopy .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within an organism or cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the response of an organism to a perceived external threat .
a protective ,  noncellular membrane that surrounds the eggs of various animals including insects and fish .
the membrane surrounding the outer segment of a vertebrate photoreceptor .
enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other ,  driven by the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate .
primary active transporter of a solute across a membrane ,  via the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ,  to directly drive the transport of a substance across a membrane .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cholesterol within an organism or cell .
any complex of actin ,  myosin ,  and accessory proteins .
the myosin part of any complex of actin ,  myosin ,  and accessory proteins .
the region of a mitochondrion to which the dna is confined .
any process that mediates the adoption of a specific fate by a cell .
any process that activates or enables a cell to adopt a specific fate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm cell fate specification .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm cell fate specification .
any process that mediates the specification of a cell into an endoderm cell .
any process that restricts ,  stops or prevents a cell from specifying into an endoderm cell .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into an auditory hair cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway ;  upon specification ,  the cell fate can be reversed .
any process that mediates the specification of a cell into an auditory hair cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a retinal cone cell .
the process in which a cell becomes committed to becoming a cardioblast .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a cardioblast cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway ;  upon specification ,  the cell fate can be reversed .
any process that mediates the specification of a cell into a cardioblast .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a muscle cell .
the process in which the cellular identity of muscle cells is acquired and determined .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a muscle cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway ;  upon specification ,  the cell fate can be reversed .
the type of sexual cycle seen in females ,  often with physiologic changes in the endometrium that recur at regular intervals during the reproductive years .
the expulsion of seminal fluid ,  thick white fluid containing spermatozoa ,  from the male genital tract .
a pigment - bearing structure that is derived from the cytoplasmic membrane ,  sometimes consisting of simple invaginations and sometimes a complete vesicle .
a specialized area of membrane of the axon terminal that faces the plasma membrane of the neuron or muscle fiber with which the axon terminal establishes a synaptic junction ;  many synaptic junctions exhibit structural presynaptic characteristics ,  such as conical ,  electron - dense internal protrusions ,  that distinguish it from the remainder of the axon plasma membrane .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  a potentially harmful byproduct of aerobic cellular respiration which can cause damage to dna .
the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
the part of the circadian sleep / wake cycle where the organism is not asleep .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the circadian sleep / wake cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
the specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of food ,  any substance  ( usually solid )  that can be metabolized by an organism to give energy and build tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur ,  the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur .
the series of events required to receive a stimulus indicating dna damage has occurred and convert it to a molecular signal .
a cascade of processes induced by the detection of dna damage within a cell .
a series of molecular signals in which an intracellular signal is conveyed to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell .
the transfer of electrons through a series of electron donors and acceptors ,  generating energy that is ultimately used for synthesis of atp .
the transfer of electrons through a series of electron donors and acceptors ,  generating energy that is ultimately used for synthesis of atp in the plasma membrane .
the transfer of electrons through a series of electron donors and acceptors ,  generating energy that is ultimately used for synthesis of atp ,  as it occurs in the mitochondrial inner membrane or chloroplast thylakoid membrane .
the transport of protons across a mitochondrial membrane to generate an electrochemical gradient  ( proton - motive force )  that powers atp synthesis .
a ribosome bound to mrna that forms part of a polysome .
the cellular synthesis of messenger rna  ( mrna )  from a dna template by rna polymerase ii ,  originating at an rna polymerase ii promoter .
the synthesis of the large ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  transcript which encodes several rrnas ,  e .g .
the synthesis of 5s ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  ,  or an equivalent rrna ,  from a dna template by rna polymerase iii  ( pol iii )  ,  originating at a type 1 rna polymerase iii promoter .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  histone h4 l - lysine  ( position 20 )  = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  histone h4 n6 - methyl - l - lysine  ( position 20 )  .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amyloid precursor protein  ( app )  ,  the precursor of amyloid - beta ,  a glycoprotein associated with alzheimer's disease .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the transport of proteins from the golgi to the plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the transport of proteins from the golgi to the plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the transport of proteins from the golgi to the plasma membrane .
the directed movement of proteins from the golgi to the plasma membrane in transport vesicles that move from the trans - golgi network to the plasma membrane .
a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell ,  e .g .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the embryo over time ,  from zygote formation through a stage including a notochord and neural tube until birth or egg hatching .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the camera - type eye over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the binding and fusion of a sperm to the oocyte plasma membrane .
any process that stops or prevents the binding and fusion of a sperm to the oocyte plasma membrane .
the portion of a neuron that includes the nucleus ,  but excludes cell projections such as axons and dendrites .
any process that modulates the frequency or rate of macrophage activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage activation .
any process that stimulates ,  induces or increases the rate of macrophage activation .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of peptides ,  compounds of 2 or more  ( but usually less than 100 )  amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another .
the covalent transfer of a methyl group to c - 5 of cytosine that contributes to the epigenetic regulation of embryonic gene expression .
the covalent transfer of a methyl group to c - 5 of cytosine that contributes to the establishment of dna methylation patterns in the gamete .
the initial developmental process that will lead to the formation of the vertebrate inner ear .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a temperature gradient .
the alignment of chromosomes at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the meiotic spindle ,  during meiosis i .
the alignment of chromosomes at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the meiotic spindle ,  during meiosis ii .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of structures in the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
the narrow gap that separates the presynaptic and postsynaptic membranes ,  into which neurotransmitter is released .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a gtpase .
the directed movement of amino acids into a cell or organelle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the receptor metabolic process that results in grouping of a set of receptors at a cellular location ,  often to amplify the sensitivity of a signaling response .
any process that modulates the extent to which blood vessels can be pervaded by fluid .
any process that modulates i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of  - kappab kinase / nf - kappab signaling .
any process involved in the maintenance of a steady - state level of the surface - active lipoprotein mixture which coats the alveoli .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction of the hindgut ,  the posterior part of the alimentary canal ,  including the rectum ,  and the large intestine .
any process in which proteins and protein complexes involved in translation are transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the synthesis of dna that contributes to the process of double - strand break repair via homologous recombination .
the synthesis of dna that contributes to the process of double - strand break repair via single - strand annealing .
the synchronization of a circadian rhythm to photoperiod ,  the intermittent cycle of light  ( day )  and dark  ( night )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in the apoptotic process .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with ions ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with anions ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms with a net negative charge .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with cations ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms with a net positive charge .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic acid ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
a small cytoplasmic ,  non - membranous rna / protein complex aggregates in the primordial germ cells of many higher eukaryotes .
terminal inflated portion of the axon ,  containing the specialized apparatus necessary to release neurotransmitters .
a small ,  membranous protrusion from a dendrite that forms a postsynaptic compartment ,  typically receiving input from a single presynapse .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the portion of the cell soma  ( neuronal cell body )  that excludes the nucleus .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
an electrically insulating fatty layer that surrounds the axons of many neurons .
the process of preserving the structure and function of mature myelin .
the portion of the myelin sheath in which layers of cell membrane are tightly juxtaposed ,  completely excluding cytoplasm .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring outside the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the internal volume enclosed by the membranes of a particular organelle ;  includes the volume enclosed by a single organelle membrane ,  e .g .
any protein complex that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with laminins ,  glycoproteins that are major constituents of the basement membrane of cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an erythrocyte to attain its fully functional state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates .
a large ,  extracellular glycoprotein complex composed of three different polypeptide chains ,  alpha ,  beta and gamma .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of potassium ions  ( k +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of potassium ions  ( k +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of potassium ions  ( k +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the recognition and removal of an apoptotic cell by a neighboring cell or by a phagocyte .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a cysteine - type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the activity of a cysteine - type endopeptidase involved in apoptosis .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pharyngeal muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
fibers ,  composed of actin ,  myosin ,  and associated proteins ,  found in cells of smooth or striated muscle .
a functional unit located near the cell apex at the points of contact between epithelial cells ,  which in vertebrates is composed of the tight junction ,  the zonula adherens ,  and desmosomes and in some invertebrates ,  such as drosophila ,  is composed of the subapical complex  ( sac )  ,  the zonula adherens and the septate junction .
the formation of an apical junction ,  a functional unit located near the cell apex at the points of contact between epithelial cells composed of the tight junction ,  the zonula adherens junction and the desmosomes ,  by the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of its constituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving biological pigments e .g .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a nucleate erythrocyte to attain its fully functional state .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires specializes features of an erythrocyte with a nucleus ,  as found in non - mammalian vertebrates such as birds .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that stops or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
the regulated release of cortisol ,  a steroid hormone that in humans is the major circulating hormone of the cortex ,  or outer layer ,  of the adrenal gland .
the regrowth of skeletal muscle tissue to repair injured or damaged muscle fibers in the postnatal stage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of map kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of map kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of map kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the map kinase  ( mapk )  cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the mapkkk cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the mapk cascade .
the covalent alteration of one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
the covalent attachment of a glycosyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule .
the covalent attachment of a methyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule .
any process that activates or increase the rate of skeletal muscle regeneration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any oxoacid ;  an oxoacid is a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration ,  the enzymatic release of energy from organic compounds .
any process that modulates the rate of atp hydrolysis by an atpase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and the processes involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates ,  carried out by individual cells .
the accumulation of pigment in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  either by increased deposition or by increased number of cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  resulting in the deposition or aggregation of pigment in an organism ,  tissue or cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  as part of the accumulation of pigment .
the aggregation of coloring matter in a particular location in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  occurring in response to some external stimulus .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  resulting in pigment accumulation .
the aggregation of coloring matter in a particular location in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  occurring in response to a uv light stimulus .
the aggregation of coloring matter in a particular location in a cell ,  occurring in response to some external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing ,  the process of removing sections of the primary rna transcript to remove sequences not present in the mature form of the rna and joining the remaining sections to form the mature form of the rna .
any process that modulates the propensity of rna molecules to degradation .
any process that modulates the propensity of mrna molecules to degradation .
prevention of degradation of rna molecules .
a series of reactions ,  mediated by the intracellular serine / threonine kinase protein kinase b  ( also called akt )  ,  which occurs as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound .
a process in which muscle adapts ,  with consequent modifications to structural and / or functional phenotypes ,  in response to a stimulus .
any process in which skeletal muscles change their phenotypic profiles in response to altered functional demands and a variety of signals .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle adaptation .
the process of restoring mitochondrial dna after damage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cascade of processes induced by the cell cycle regulator phosphoprotein p53 ,  or an equivalent protein ,  in response to the detection of dna damage .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of the cascade of processes induced by the cell cycle regulator phosphoprotein p53 ,  or an equivalent protein ,  in response to the detection of dna damage .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cascade of processes induced by the cell cycle regulator phosphoprotein p53 ,  or an equivalent protein ,  in response to the detection of dna damage .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process in neurons .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process in neurons .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death of neurons by apoptotic process .
the orderly movement of an endothelial cell into the extracellular matrix in order to form new blood vessels during angiogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the migration of the endothelial cells of blood vessels .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the migration of the endothelial cells of blood vessels .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the migration of the endothelial cells of blood vessels .
the orderly movement of an endothelial cell into the extracellular matrix to form an endothelium .
the addition of an acyl group ,  any group or radical of the form rco -  where r is an organic group ,  to a protein amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the molybdopterin cofactor  ( moco )  ,  essential for the catalytic activity of some enzymes ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a gtpase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a simple or complex lipid .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with dna of a specific nucleotide composition ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin - like growth factor receptor signaling .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin - like growth factor receptor signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin - like growth factor receptor signaling .
any process involved in sustaining the fidelity and copy number of dna repeat elements .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
the movement of an organism ,  or part of an organism ,  in response to an external chemical gradient ,  usually toward or away from it .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ear over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the nose over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the tongue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the tongue are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skin over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the skin are generated and organized .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
the multiplication or reproduction of keratinocytes ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress .
modulation of the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from a dna template as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress .
the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of a non - coding rna molecule .
the enzymatic addition of a sequence of adenylyl residues at the 3' end of an rna molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  initiated by covalent modification of the target molecule .
the removal of the apoptotic cell by phagocytosis ,  by a neighboring cell or by a phagocyte .
the process in which a cell interprets signals  ( in the form of specific proteins and lipids )  on the surface of a dying cell which it will engulf and remove by phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphate from a phosphoprotein .
the wall surrounding a mature pollen grain ;  a multilayered structure consisting of a pectocellulosic intine surrounded by a sporopollenin - based exine ,  which itself contains two layers ,  the inner nexine and the outer sexine .
the outer layer of the pollen grain wall which is composed primarily of sporopollenin .
the outer ,  sculptured layer of the exine ,  which lies above the nexine .
the layer of sexine which forms a roof over the columella ,  granules or other infratectal elements .
terminal inflated portion of the axon ,  containing the specialized apparatus necessary to release neurotransmitters .
the process in which a specialized structure  ( cell ,  tissue or organ )  loses structural or functional features that characterize it in the mature organism ,  or some other relatively stable phase of the organism's life history .
the process in which a specialized cell loses the structural or functional features that characterize it in the mature organism ,  or some other relatively stable phase of the organism's life history .
a tissue - specific ,  membrane - bounded cytoplasmic organelle within which purines crystalize in reflective stacks .
a tissue - specific ,  membrane - bounded cytoplasmic organelle within which pteridine pigments are synthesized and stored .
a tissue - specific cytoplasmic vesicle surrounded by a membrane half - leaflet within which carotenoid pigments are stored .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a photoreceptor cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glyceraldehyde 3 - phosphate  +  phosphate  +  nad ( p )  +  = 3 - phospho - d - glyceroyl phosphate  +  nad ( p ) h  +  h +  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiosis ,  an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone ,  involved in the progression of the skeleton from its formation to its mature state .
the formation or growth of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone ,  involved in response to injury or other physical ,  physiological or environmental stress stimuli .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a protein complex .
the organization process that preserves a cellular component in a stable functional or structural state .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of an acetyl group .
the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of an acetyl group to a lysine residue at position 9 of the histone .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of an acetyl group to a lysine residue at position 27 of the histone .
the modification of histone h4 by addition of a methyl group to arginine at position 3 of the histone .
an increase in the epigenetic methylation of cytosine and adenosine residues in dna .
an increase in the epigenetic methylation of cytosine and adenosine residues in a cpg island in dna .
an decrease in the epigenetic methylation of cytosine and adenosine residues in dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent transfer of a methyl group to either n - 6 of adenine or c - 5 or n - 4 of cytosine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucans ,  polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of an endocrine process ,  a process involving the secretion of or response to endocrine hormones .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of excretion ,  the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a respiratory system process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the respiratory system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a membrane .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the increase in size or mass of an organism occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring in ,  on or near the exterior of its host organism .
the increase in size or mass of an organism ,  occurring within the cells or tissues of the host organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring in ,  on or near the exterior of its host organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring in ,  on or near the exterior of its host organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring in ,  on or near the exterior of its host organism .
a zone of apposition between the membranes of an organelle with another membrane ,  either another membrane of the same organelle ,  a membrane of another organelle ,  or the plasma membrane .
a zone of apposition between endoplasmic - reticulum and mitochondrial membranes ,  structured by bridging complexes .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the whole of the physical ,  chemical ,  and biochemical processes carried out by living organisms to break down ingested lipids into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of polysaccharides ,  polymers of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving polysaccharides ,  polymers of more than 10 monosaccharide residues joined by glycosidic linkages ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any large molecule including proteins ,  nucleic acids and carbohydrates ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
extended zone of intimate apposition between two cells containing one or more types of intercellular junctions ,  e .g . ,  the intercalated disk of muscle .
a structure at the distal end of a dendrite adapted to carry out a specific function ,  e .g .
the migrating motile tip of a growing nerve cell axon .
the terminal specialization found in some types of dendrites which consists of numerous small terminal branches ,  giving the dendrite a tufted appearance .
the portion of a cell bearing surface projections such as axons ,  dendrites ,  cilia ,  or flagella that includes the nucleus ,  but excludes all cell projections .
the plasma membrane of a cell that bears surface projections such as axons ,  dendrites ,  cilia ,  or flagella ,  excluding the plasma membrane on cell projections .
any of the smaller branches of an axon that emanate from the main axon cylinder .
the main axonal trunk ,  as opposed to the collaterals ;  i .e . ,  excluding collaterals ,  terminal ,  spines ,  or dendrites .
the specialized ,  terminal region of a neuron projection such as an axon or a dendrite .
a dendrite arising from another dendrite .
a small membranous protrusion ,  often ending in a bulbous head and attached to the neuron by a narrow stalk or neck .
a specialized axon terminus which is produced by retinal cone cells .
the migration of a cell along or through a wound gap that contributes to the reestablishment of a continuous surface .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription that contributes to the specification of the anterior / posterior axis .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in the positive regulation of endothelial cell migration .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in the positive regulation of cell to cell adhesion .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in positive regulation of wound healing .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via a cadherin ,  transmembrane proteins having repeating extracellular calcium ion binding domains .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell contributing to the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of the dorsal / ventral axis .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell contributing to the generation and the organization of the digestive tract .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in the positive regulation of epithelial cell to mesenchymal cell transition .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in neural crest cell differentiation .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in the negative regulation of apoptotic process .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in the positive regulation of apoptotic process .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in osteoblast differentiation .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes that contributes to modulating the rate or frequency of cell proliferation .
the multiplication or reproduction of pancreatic b cells ,  resulting in the expansion of an pancreatic b cell population .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes that modulates the rate or frequency of pancreatic b cell proliferation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the cytoskeleton .
the directed movement of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell as a result of an insulin stimulus .
either of the two subunits of a ribosome: the ribosomal large subunit or the ribosomal small subunit .
a process carried out by gene products in an organism that enable the organism to engage in a symbiotic relationship ,  a more or less intimate association ,  with another organism .
entry of a symbiont into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of a host organism as part of the symbiont life cycle .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a motile cilium .
any process that modulates the quantity of fibrinogen circulating in the bloodstream .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of secondary metabolites ,  the compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals ,  involving another organism .
a multicellular organism process which involves another multicellular organism of the same or different species .
the process of adding or removing a methyl group from one or more nucleotides within an dna molecule .
a type of secondary lysosome in which a primary lysosome has fused with the outer membrane of an autophagosome .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level which involves another organism of the same or different species .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore ,  involving more than one organism .
enables the transfer of ions from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: atp  +  h2o  +  ion ( in )  = adp  +  phosphate  +  ion ( out )  ,  by a rotational mechanism .
the cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next cell cycle phase .
the cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next meiotic cell cycle phase .
the cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next mitotic cell cycle phase .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression through the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
a mitotic cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression in response to changes in dna structure by monitoring the integrity of the dna .
a meiotic cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression in response to changes in dna structure by monitoring the integrity of the dna .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a meiotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and that the chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
a cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression from g1 to s phase in the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase as part of the cell cycle .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase as part of meiosis .
the dna - dependent dna replication that takes place as part of the cell cycle .
a process in which a host organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any of a process being mediated by a virus with which it is infected .
a process in which a host organism stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process being mediated by a virus with which it is infected .
a process in which a host organism activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the release of a process being mediated by a virus with which it is infected .
the membrane organization process that joins two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane ,  involving more than one organism .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane ,  involving more than one organism .
a cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression from g2 to m phase as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
a cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression from g1 to s phase as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
a specialized resting state that cells enter in response to cues from the cell's environment .
the cell cycle process by which a cell in g2 phase commits to m phase .
the cell cycle process by which a cell in g1 phase commits to s phase .
a distinct period or stage in a biological process or cycle .
a membrane raft that is part of the plasma membrane .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a plasma membrane raft .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of plasma membrane rafts .
the process in which a host organism effects a change in the enzyme activity of a virus with which it is infected .
a process in which a host organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any molecular function being mediated by a virus with which it is infected .
a process in which a host organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of viral glycoprotein metabolic process .
a process in which a host organism stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of viral glycoprotein metabolic process .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that detects a defect in cytokinesis and prevents further rounds of nuclear division until cytokinesis is completed .
repair of a dsb made between two repeated sequences oriented in the same direction occurs primarily by the single strand annealing pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nitric oxide .
the directed movement of substances ,  in membrane - bounded vesicles ,  from the early sorting endosomes to the late sorting endosomes ;  transport occurs along microtubules and can be experimentally blocked with microtubule - depolymerizing drugs .
the joining of the lipid bilayer membrane that surround a cell with that of another cell ,  producing a single cell .
a process of exocytosis in which soluble proteins and other substances are initially stored in secretory vesicles for later release .
the directed movement of endocytosed material through the cell and its exocytosis from the plasma membrane at the opposite side .
innate immune responses are defense responses mediated by germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
a filament composed of acidic and basic keratins  ( types i and ii )  ,  typically expressed in epithelial cells .
a type of intermediate filament ,  typically made up of one or more of the proteins vimentin ,  desmin ,  glial fibrillary acidic protein  ( gfap )  ,  and peripherin .
cytoskeletal structure made from intermediate filaments ,  typically organized in the cytosol as an extended system that stretches from the nuclear envelope to the plasma membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of integrins ,  a large family of transmembrane proteins that act as receptors for cell - adhesion molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of integrins .
the nucleus of either the ovum or the spermatozoon following fertilization .
any of the small  ( 10 - 200 nm )  ,  heterogeneous ,  highly dynamic ,  sterol -  and sphingolipid - enriched membrane domains that compartmentalize cellular processes .
the migration of a leukocyte from the blood vessels into the surrounding tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone tissue loss  ( resorption )  .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of recombination during meiosis .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during m phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the secondary sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the primary sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the first division of the meiotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and randomly apportioned to two sets during the second division of the meiotic cell cycle .
the process in which voltage - gated ion channels become localized to distinct subcellular domains in the neuron .
the process in which voltage - gated sodium channels become localized together in high densities .
the commitment of cells to specific cell fates and their capacity to differentiate into particular kinds of cells .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific asymmetric distribution ,  resulting in the formation of daughter cells of different types .
signaling at long or short range between cells that results in the commitment of a cell to a certain fate .
a direct connection between the cytoplasm of two cells that is formed following the completion of cleavage furrow ingression during cell division .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  basal regions of the cell .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  apical regions of the cell .
the region of a polarized cell that forms a tip or is distal to a base .
the region of a cell situated near the base .
the region that lies just beneath the plasma membrane on the apical edge of a cell .
the region that lies just beneath the plasma membrane on the basal edge of a cell .
any molecular function involved in the initiation ,  activation ,  perpetuation ,  repression or termination of polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sleep ;  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the apicobasal polarity of an epithelial cell .
the specification and formation of the apicobasal polarity of an epithelial cell .
the maintenance of the apicobasal polarity of an epithelial cell .
the junction between an axon of one neuron and a dendrite of another neuron ,  a muscle fiber or a glial cell .
the component of the cell outer membrane consisting of the gene products having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
a specialized area of membrane facing the presynaptic membrane on the tip of the nerve ending and separated from it by a minute cleft  ( the synaptic cleft )  .
the myofibril assembly process that results in the organization of muscle actomyosin into sarcomeres .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cell - cell junction .
the maintenance of junctions between cells .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of external structures that lie outside the plasma membrane and surround the entire cell .
respiratory chain complex i is an enzyme of the respiratory chain .
a subcomplex of the respiratory chain located in the plasma membrane .
the joining together ,  after removal of an intervening sequence composed of one or more introns ,  of two segments of the same rna molecule via spliceosomal catalysis to produce an mrna composed only of exon sequences that all came from the same primary transcript .
the precipitation of specific crystal forms of calcium carbonate with extracellular matrix proteins in the otolith organs of the vertebrate inner ear .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds  ( especially carbohydrates and fats )  which either requires oxygen  ( aerobic respiration )  or does not  ( anaerobic respiration )  .
a membrane - bounded intracellular vesicle that arises from the ingestion of particulate material by phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nitric oxide .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nitric oxide .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an adipocyte ,  an animal connective tissue cell specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a myoblast .
the process in which a mesodermal ,  bone marrow or neural crest cell acquires specialized features of an endothelial cell ,  a thin flattened cell .
the eukaryotic cell cycle in which a cell is duplicated without changing ploidy ,  occurring in the embryo .
the process in which specialized cells known as osteoclasts degrade the organic and inorganic portions of bone ,  and endocytose and transport the degradation products .
any process that maintains the redox environment of a cell or compartment within a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the rhythm of the locomotor activity of an organism during its 24 hour activity cycle .
any process preventing the degeneration of the photoreceptor ,  a specialized cell type that is sensitive to light .
differentiated cytoplasm associated with a pole  ( animal ,  vegetal ,  anterior ,  or posterior )  of an oocyte ,  egg or early embryo .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cholesterol .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cholesterol .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cholesterol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation ,  the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of auditory hair cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of auditory hair cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of auditory hair cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of keratinocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of keratinocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of keratinocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanoreceptor differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanoreceptor differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanoreceptor differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of melanocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of melanocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of melanocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of megakaryocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of megakaryocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of megakaryocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myoblast differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myoblast differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myoblast differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoblast differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoblast differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoblast differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glia cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glia cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glia cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of integrins .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a cilium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of integrins .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
the phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ,  that occurs at fertilization .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclin - dependent protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cdk activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of g protein - coupled receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of g protein - coupled receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the notch signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the notch signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of angiogenesis .
any process that activates or increases angiogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric cell division .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric cell division .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone resorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone resorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that increases cell size .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin assembly or disassembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin assembly or disassembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors leads to an increase in intracellular calcium and activation of protein kinase c  ( pkc )  .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors leads to an increase in intracellular calcium and activation of protein kinase c  ( pkc )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycogen .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycogen .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of light - activated channel activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of light - activated channel activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle development .
any process that reduces the internal ph of an organism ,  part of an organism or a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process that increases the internal ph of an organism ,  part of an organism or a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid cohesion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid cohesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of smoothened signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of smoothened signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic growth at neuromuscular junction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic growth at neuromuscular junction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasoconstriction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasoconstriction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catecholamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytolysis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytolysis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of sleep ,  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase i .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase iii .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion - dependent exocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion - dependent exocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dopamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the embryonic mitotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of progression through the embryonic mitotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleosides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleosides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving adp ,  adenosine 5' - diphosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving atp ,  adenosine triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving gtp ,  guanosine triphosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nucleotide camp  ( cyclic amp ,  adenosine 3' , 5' - cyclophosphate )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cyclic gmp ,  guanosine 3' , 5' - phosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any purine ribonucleoside ,  a nucleoside in which purine base is linked to a ribose  ( beta - d - ribofuranose )  molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rhodopsin ,  a brilliant purplish - red ,  light - sensitive visual pigment found in the rod cells of the retinas .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a phenol ,  any compound containing one or more hydroxyl groups directly attached to an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitric oxide ,  nitrogen monoxide  ( no )  ,  a colorless gas only slightly soluble in water .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid oxidation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid oxidation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid oxidation .
the directed movement of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the jnk cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the jnk cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the jnk cascade .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of disaccharides ,  sugars composed of two monosaccharide units .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of monosaccharides ,  polyhydric alcohols containing either an aldehyde or a keto group and between three to ten or more carbon atoms .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ribose phosphate ,  any phosphorylated ribose sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  (  - cooh )  groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  (  - cooh )  groups .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor signaling via jak - stat .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a receptor signaling pathway via jak - stat .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the jak - stat signaling pathway activity .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of membrane lipids ,  any lipid found in or associated with a biological membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycerolipids ,  any lipid with a glycerol backbone .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphatidylinositol ,  any glycophospholipid in which a sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate residue is esterified to the 1 - hydroxyl group of 1d - myo - inositol .
the specialization of organization of a photoreceptor ,  a cell that responds to incident electromagnetic radiation ,  particularly visible light .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of photoreceptor cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of photoreceptor cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of photoreceptor cell differentiation .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the secondary female sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the secondary male sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the primary female sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the primary male sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
development of a rod cell ,  one of the sensory cells in the eye that reacts to the presence of light .
development of a cone cell ,  one of the sensory cells in the eye that reacts to the presence of light .
the process in which the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a photoreceptor cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules that require the presence of calcium for the interaction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium - dependent cell - cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium - dependent cell - cell adhesion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the viral entry into the host cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the entry of viral entry into a host cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the introduction of viral entry into the host cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a daughter centriole of an existing centriole .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of centriole replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of centriole replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the separation of duplicated centrosome components at the beginning of mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of centrosome separation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of centrosome separation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the centrosome cycle ,  the processes of centrosome duplication and separation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the centrosome cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the centrosome cycle .
the v0 domain of a proton - transporting v - type atpase found in the lysosomal membrane .
a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex found in the lysosomal membrane ,  where it acts as a proton pump to mediate acidification of the lysosomal lumen .
the v1 domain of a proton - transporting v - type atpase found in the lysosomal membrane .
establishment and formation of the optic placode ,  paired ectodermal placodes that become invaginated to form the embryonic lens vesicles .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
the change in morphology and behavior of a gamma - delta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the change in morphology and behavior of an alpha - beta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of an alpha - beta t cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the expansion of a lymphocyte population by cell division .
the establishment of the sex of a female organism by physical differentiation .
the establishment of the sex of a male organism by physical differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the deposition of eggs ,  either fertilized or not ,  upon a surface or into a medium .
programmed cell death that occurs in the developing retina .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death that occurs in the retina .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death that occurs in the retina .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death that occurs in the retina .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
an apical plasma membrane part that forms a narrow enfolded luminal membrane channel ,  lined with numerous microvilli ,  that appears to extend into the cytoplasm of the cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the cellular homeostatic process that preserves a muscle cell in a stable functional or structural state .
the controlled release of acid by a cell or a tissue .
the process that occurs after viral attachment by which a virus ,  or viral nucleic acid ,  breaches the plasma membrane or cell envelope and enters the host cell .
the phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own amino acid residues  ( cis - autophosphorylation )  ,  or residues on an identical protein  ( trans - autophosphorylation )  .
the addition of tubulin heterodimers to one or both ends of a microtubule .
the directed movement of a virus ,  or part of a virus ,  into ,  out of ,  or within a host cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the cytoplasm and the nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of directed movement of proteins from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of rna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of rna from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of directed movement of rna from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
the process of introducing one or more phosphate groups into a lipid ,  any member of a group of substances soluble in lipid solvents but only sparingly soluble in aqueous solvents .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a carbohydrate ,  any organic compound based on the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the process of removing one or more phosphate groups from a phosphorylated lipid ,  any member of a group of substances soluble in lipid solvents but only sparingly soluble in aqueous solvents .
establishment of the micropyle ,  a single cone - shaped specialization of the chorion that allows sperm entry into the egg prior to fertilization .
the assembly of a filopodium ,  a thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast or amoeba ,  or an axonal growth cone .
the continuous turnover of bone matrix and mineral that involves first ,  an increase in resorption  ( osteoclastic activity )  and later ,  reactive bone formation  ( osteoblastic activity )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling ,  the processes of bone formation and resorption that combine to maintain skeletal integrity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling .
the process of introducing one or more phosphate groups into a phosphatidylinositol ,  any glycerophosphoinositol having one phosphatidyl group esterified to one of the hydroxy groups of inositol .
the process of removing one or more phosphate groups from a phosphatidylinositol .
enables the transfer of metal ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
the regulated release of hormones ,  substances with a specific regulatory effect on a particular organ or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hormones .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hormones .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the passage or uptake of molecules by the mitochondrial membrane .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
catalysis of the transfer of an l - fucosyl group from gdp - beta - l - fucose to an acceptor molecule to form an alpha -  ( 1 -  > 6 )  linkage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a neurotransmitter from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a neurotransmitter .
any small opening in a membrane that allows the passage of gases and / or liquids .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a pore complex .
the process of introducing one or more phosphate groups into a nucleotide to produce a phosphorylated nucleoside .
the directed movement of carboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
enables the transfer of carboxylic acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
the directed movement of a cell or organism towards a source of light .
a simple form of learning whereby the repeated presence of a stimulus leads to a change in the probability or strength of the response to that stimulus .
a decrease in a behavioral response to a repeated stimulus .
enables the transfer of protons from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: atp  +  h2o  +  h +  ( in )  = adp  +  phosphate  +  h +  ( out )  ,  by a rotational mechanism .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  histone h3 l - lysine  ( position 9 )  = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  histone h3 n6 - methyl - l - lysine  ( position 9 )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hemoglobin ,  an oxygen carrying ,  conjugated protein containing four heme groups and globin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hemoglobin ,  an oxygen carrying ,  conjugated protein containing four heme groups and globin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hemoglobin ,  an oxygen carrying ,  conjugated protein containing four heme groups and globin .
catalysis of the reaction: retinol -  [ cellular - retinol - binding - protein ]   +  phosphatidylcholine = retinyl - ester -  [ cellular - retinol - binding - protein ]   +  2 - acylglycerophosphocholine .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of the response to osmotic stress .
the directed movement of a mitochondrion along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
catalysis of the reaction: l - alanine  +  a 2 - oxo acid = pyruvate  +  an l - amino acid .
catalysis of the reaction: creatinine  +  h ( 2 ) o = creatine .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 h ( 2 ) o ( 2 )   +  h (  +  )   +  palmitate = co ( 2 )   +  3 h ( 2 ) o  +  pentadecanal .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the insulin - like growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor  ( vegfr )  located on the surface of the receiving cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
a series of molecular signals in which a cell uses a phosphatidylinositol - mediated signaling to convert a signal into a response .
any intracellular signal transduction in which the signal is passed on within the cell via an inositol phosphate .
a series of molecular signals in which a cell uses an inositol - containing lipid to convert a signal into a response .
the activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor .
any process that alters the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of melanin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of melanin .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of melanin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna splicing via a spliceosomal mechanism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mrna splicing via a spliceosomal mechanism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of mrna splicing via a spliceosomal mechanism .
the process occurring in the embryo by which the anatomical structures of the post - embryonic eye are generated and organized .
the developmental process that results in the deposition of coloring matter in an organism ,  tissue or cell .
establishment of a pattern of pigment in the eye of an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the developmental process that results in the deposition of coloring matter in an organism .
establishment of a pattern of pigment in one sex that is not observed in the other sex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of a pattern of pigment in the eye of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of a pattern of pigment in the eye of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of a pattern of pigment in the eye of an organism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the developmental process that results in the deposition of coloring matter in an organism .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the developmental process that results in the deposition of coloring matter in an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of a pattern of pigment in males .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of a pattern of pigment in males .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of a pattern of pigment in males .
establishment of a pattern of pigment in males .
a form of programmed cell death that is accompanied by the formation of autophagosomes .
the self - renewing division of a somatic stem cell ,  a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
a change in morphology and behavior of an astrocyte resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
any process that results in a change in the behavior of an organism as a result of an ethanol stimulus .
a process that modulates synaptic plasticity ,  the ability of synapses to change as circumstances require .
a process that modulates neuronal synaptic plasticity ,  the ability of neuronal synapses to change as circumstances require .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within the golgi apparatus ,  mediated by vesicles .
the process in which vesicles are directed to specific destination membranes during transport to ,  from or within the golgi apparatus ;  mediated by the addition of specific coat proteins ,  including copi and copii proteins and clathrin ,  to the membrane during vesicle formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or destination of vesicle - mediated transport to ,  from or within the golgi apparatus .
generation of the male gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a female gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the rough endoplasmic reticulum .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum .
the movement of a macrophage in response to an external stimulus .
prevention of degradation of mrna molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor mediated endocytosis ,  the uptake of external materials by cells ,  utilizing receptors to ensure specificity of transport .
determination of asymmetry from the dorsal to the ventral side ;  as ,  the dorsoventral axis .
the regionalization process that results in the determination of the identity of part of an organism or organ where those parts are of the type that occur in the ventral region .
the initial attachment of a transport vesicle membrane to the target membrane ,  mediated by proteins protruding from the membrane of the vesicle and the target membrane .
the creation of a single organelle from two or more organelles .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
the partitioning of organelles between daughter cells at cell division .
the partitioning of nuclei between daughter cells at cell division .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the axial mesoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the axial mesoderm are generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the axial mesoderm .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an axial mesoderm cell .
the process in which a cell becomes committed to become an axial mesoderm cell .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into an axial mesoderm cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway ;  upon specification ,  the cell fate can be reversed .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axial mesoderm cell fate specification .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axial mesoderm cell fate specification .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axial mesoderm cell fate specification .
the process that contributes to the act of creating the structural organization of the axial mesoderm .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the mesoderm are generated and organized .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a mesoderm cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm cell fate specification .
the process that contributes to the act of creating the structural organization of the mesoderm .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the paraxial mesoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the paraxial mesoderm are generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the paraxial mesoderm .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a paraxial mesoderm cell .
the process in which a cell becomes committed to become a paraxial mesoderm cell .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a paraxial mesoderm cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway ;  upon specification ,  the cell fate can be reversed .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of paraxial mesoderm cell fate specification .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of paraxial mesoderm cell fate specification .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of paraxial mesoderm cell fate specification .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lateral mesoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the lateral mesoderm are generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the lateral mesoderm .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a lateral mesoderm cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mesendoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a retinoic acid receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that reduces the ph of the endosomal lumen ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the intermediate mesoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the intermediate mesoderm are generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to the intermediate mesoderm .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an intermediate mesoderm cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a cell to attain its fully functional state .
cytoplasm situated near ,  or occurring around ,  the nucleus .
the complete process of formation and maturation of an ovum or female gamete from a primordial female germ cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the autonomic nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the enteric nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the sympathetic nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the parasympathetic nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a vesicle - mediated transport process ,  in which the synaptic vesicle membrane constituents are retrieved from the presynaptic membrane on the axon terminal after neurotransmitter secretion by exocytosis .
the process in which the identity of an animal organ is maintained .
the process controlling the activation and / or rate at which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized features .
any process pertinent to the generation and maintenance of rhythms in the physiology of an organism .
the specific behavior of an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
development of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
the process in which the anatomical structures of blood vessels are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process in which a virus is a participant .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process in which a virus is a participant .
the process that gives rise to the configuration of the constituent parts of an anatomical structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of any organ involved in hematopoiesis  ( also known as hemopoiesis )  or lymphoid cell activation over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the thymus over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which the anatomical structures of the digestive tract are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the digestive tract are generated and organized during embryonic development .
the process that determines the orientation of an anatomical structure with reference to an axis .
the process that determines the orientation of an animal organ or tissue with reference to an axis .
morphogenesis ,  during the embryonic phase ,  of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the digestive tract over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the gut over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure during embryonic development .
development ,  taking place during the embryonic phase ,  of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
development ,  taking place during the post - embryonic phase of an animal tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the notochord are generated and organized .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of post - embryonic development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of post - embryonic development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of post - embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the growth of a cell ,  where growth contributes to the progression of the cell over time from one condition to another .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell ,  where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the eye are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the eye are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the eye are generated and organized during embryonic development .
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which the structures of an oocyte are generated and organized .
the reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of structures that will be used in the process of creating new individuals from one or more parents ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the process ,  occurring above the cellular level ,  that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of muscle development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of developmental growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle tissue development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle tissue development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of skeletal muscle tissue development .
the process in which the anatomical structures of muscle are generated and organized .
the process pertaining to the initial formation of an animal organ from unspecified parts .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
the process in which the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a neuron .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a neuron regardless of its environment ;  upon determination ,  the cell fate cannot be reversed .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a neuron in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which the structures of a neuron are generated and organized .
the process in which outgrowths develop from the shafts of existing axons .
the process in which outgrowths develop from the axons of intact undamaged neurons .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of collateral sprouting .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of collateral sprouting .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of collateral sprouting .
long distance growth of a single axon process involved in cellular development .
long distance growth of a single axon process involved in regeneration of the neuron .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon regeneration .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of axon regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon regeneration .
the process involved in sprouting of an injured axon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sprouting of an injured axon .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of sprouting of an injured axon .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sprouting of an injured axon .
the formation of a growth cone in an injured axon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in regeneration .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of axon extension involved in regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in regeneration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of collateral sprouting in the absence of injury .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of collateral sprouting in the absence of injury .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of collateral sprouting in the absence of injury .
the process in which nerve cells are generated .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the cranial skeleton are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the neurocranium are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the viscerocranium are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the skeleton are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the skeleton are generated and organized .
the process ,  occurring during the embryonic phase ,  whose specific outcome is the progression of the skeleton over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an astrocyte .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an oligodendrocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of astrocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of astrocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of astrocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligodendrocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligodendrocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligodendrocyte differentiation .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tissue are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the epidermis are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a gland over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an appendage over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of cardiac muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of cardiac muscle fiber over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skeletal muscle fiber over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle fiber development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of skeletal muscle fiber development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle fiber development .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of smooth muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the muscle fiber over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the compound eye over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the semicircular canals are generated and organized .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a pigment granule .
the process in which the anatomical structures of branches in an epithelial tube are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of branches in a nerve are generated and organized .
steps required to form a membrane - bounded organelle into a pigment granule containing pigment .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a mesenchymal cell .
the process in which sarcomeres are added in series within a fiber .
a small ,  subcellular membrane - bounded vesicle containing pigment and / or pigment precursor molecules .
the reorganization or renovation of existing tissues .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pigment ,  contributing to the process in which a membrane - bounded organelle develops into a pigment granule .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the hatching gland over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a specialized region of the plasma membrane and cell cortex of a presynaptic neuron ;  encompasses a region of the plasma membrane where synaptic vesicles dock and fuse ,  and a specialized cortical cytoskeletal matrix .
the membrane portion of the presynaptic active zone ;  it is the site where docking and fusion of synaptic vesicles occurs for the release of neurotransmitters .
the specialized cytoskeletal matrix of the presynaptic active zone .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pronephros over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the swim bladder over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the swim bladder is generated and organized .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a swim bladder to attain its fully functional state .
the process that gives rise to the swim bladder .
the expansion of the swim bladder by trapped gases .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an animal organ to attain its fully functional state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a neuron projection are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a dendrite are generated and organized .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite morphogenesis .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an erythrocyte over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process aimed at the progression of a nucleate erythrocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the inner ear over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the otolith over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
the process in which the anatomical structures of arterial blood vessels are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of venous blood vessels are generated and organized .
the long distance growth of a single cell process ,  that is involved in the migration of an axon growth cone ,  where the migration is directed to a specific target site by a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process that gives rise to adenohypophysis .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the hypophysis are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the hypophysis are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the diencephalon are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the forebrain are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the brain are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the adenohypophysis are generated and organized .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neural nucleus from its initial condition to its mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a cell projection are generated and organized .
the process in which the limits of an anatomical structure are generated .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a stem cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the stem cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a stem cell .
the process in which a cell becomes capable of differentiating autonomously into a stem cell in an environment that is neutral with respect to the developmental pathway .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the multicellular organism .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a population of cells .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a population of cells in a tissue .
any process involved in the maintenance of the internal steady state of the amount of a chemical at the level of the tissue .
any process involved in the maintenance of the internal steady state of the amount of a chemical at the level of the retina .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a sensory system over time from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mechanosensory lateral line system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lateral line over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the migration of a cluster of a relatively undifferentiated cell originating at specific cephalic placodes and depositing proneuromasts along a developing lateral line ,  from which the neuromasts will develop .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the neuromast over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a migrating neuromast primordium deposits clusters of undifferentiated cells  ( proneuromasts )  along its migratory path in a developing lateral line .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuromast hair cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lateral line nerve over time ,  form its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an afferent axon in a lateral line nerve over time from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an efferent axon in a lateral line nerve over time from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a glial cell in a lateral line nerve .
the movement of a glial cell along the axons in a lateral line nerve .
the formation of compact myelin sheaths around the axons of a lateral line nerve .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the anterior lateral line system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the anterior lateral line over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the anterior lateral line neuromast over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an anterior lateral line neuromast hair cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the anterior lateral line nerve over time ,  form its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a glial cell in the anterior lateral line nerve .
the formation of compact myelin sheaths around the axons of the anterior lateral line nerve .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the posterior lateral line system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the posterior lateral line over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the posterior lateral line nerve over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the posterior lateral line neuromast over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the migration of a relatively undifferentiated cell along the developing posterior lateral line ,  originating from cranial ectodermal placodes situated behind the ear .
the process in which a migrating neuromast primordium deposits clusters of undifferentiated cells  ( proneuromasts )  along its migratory path in the developing posterior lateral line .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a posterior lateral line neuromast hair cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lateral line system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an efferent axon in the posterior lateral line nerve over time from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a glial cell in the posterior lateral line nerve .
the formation of compact myelin sheaths around the axons of the posterior lateral line nerve .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an afferent axon in the posterior lateral line nerve over time from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron whose cell body resides in the peripheral nervous system .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron whose cell body is located in the peripheral nervous system ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a neuronal fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated neuron .
generation of a long process from a neuron whose cell body resides in the peripheral nervous system .
the process aimed at the progression of a lateral line glial cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which the structure of a glial cell in a lateral line nerve is generated and organized .
the process aimed at the progression of a glial cell in the anterior lateral line nerve over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which the structures of a glial cell in the anterior lateral line nerve are generated and organized .
the process aimed at the progression of a glial cell in the posterior lateral line nerve over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which the structures of a glial cell in the posterior lateral line nerve are generated and organized .
any process in which a chromosome is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
catalysis of the reaction: nadh  +  h +   +  a quinone = nad +   +  a quinol .
catalysis of the reaction: prostaglandin h ( 2 )  = prostaglandin e ( 2 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: sugar phosphate  +  h2o = sugar  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: h2o  +  sugar phosphorylated on the terminal carbon = a sugar  +  phosphate .
the regulated release of catecholamines by a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of catecholamines .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan ,  any glycoprotein whose glycosaminoglycan units are chondroitin sulfate .
the elongation of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan chains by alternate addition of n - acetylhexosamine and glcua residues to the gag - protein linkage region tetrasaccharide of chondroitin sulfate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan ,  any glycoprotein whose glycosaminoglycan units are chondroitin sulfate .
the directed movement of nucleic acids ,  single or double - stranded polynucleotides involved in the storage ,  transmission and transfer of genetic information ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of rna ,  ribonucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  a potentially harmful byproduct of aerobic cellular respiration which can cause damage to dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
the multiplication or reproduction of epithelial cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna processing ,  those processes involved in the conversion of a primary mrna transcript into a mature mrna prior to its translation into polypeptide .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of antiviral mechanisms ,  thereby facilitating viral replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the antiviral response of a cell or organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response ,  the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - tyrosine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - tyrosine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - tyrosine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipoproteins ,  any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipoproteins ,  any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipoproteins ,  any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis ,  the process in which phagocytes engulf external particulate material .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells in the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis ,  the generation of an axon ,  the long process of a neuron .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that decreases the stability of an rna molecule ,  making it more vulnerable to degradative processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of the viral life cycle ,  the set of processes by which a virus reproduces and spreads among hosts .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions within an organism or cell .
the part of the circadian sleep / wake cycle where the organism is asleep .
any process that modulates the physical form or the activity of a synapse ,  the junction between a neuron and a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  .
any process that modulates the frequency or amplitude of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that modulates the physical form of a synapse ,  the junction between a neuron and a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a synapse ,  the junction between a neuron and a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the process in which a fluid solution ,  or part of it ,  changes into a solid or semisolid mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation ,  the process in which a fluid solution ,  or part of it ,  changes into a solid or semisolid mass .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a gram - negative bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a gram - positive bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a fungus that act to protect the cell or organism .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cell adhesion molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a component of the extracellular matrix .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium - mediated signaling ,  the process in which a cell uses calcium ions to convert an extracellular signal into a response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium - mediated signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium - mediated signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation ,  the change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
any process that modulates the levels of body fluids .
any physiological process involved in changing the position of a multicellular organism or an anatomical part of a multicellular organism .
the movement of an organism or part of an organism using mechanoreceptors ,  the nervous system ,  striated muscle and / or the skeletal system .
the movement of an organism or part of an organism using mechanoreceptors ,  the nervous system ,  striated muscle and / or the skeletal system that can be controlled at will .
involuntary movement caused by the application of a stimulus to an organism and a subsequent movement .
any process in which an organism voluntarily modulates its posture ,  the alignment of its anatomical parts .
any process that an organism uses to control its balance ,  the orientation of the organism  ( or the head of the organism )  in relation to the source of gravity .
the process that involves the secretion of or response to endocrine hormones .
the operation of the mind by which an organism becomes aware of objects of thought or perception ;  it includes the mental activities associated with thinking ,  learning ,  and memory .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of water within a tissue ,  organ ,  or a multicellular organism .
any process in which nutrients are taken up from the contents of the intestine .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the movement of a leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
any process pertaining to the functions of the nervous and muscular systems of an organism .
the series of events involved in sensory perception in which a sensory stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a chemical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal as part of sensory perception .
the series of events involved in visual perception in which a light stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a gustatory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of sound vibration in which the vibration is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of smell in which an olfactory chemical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of taste in which a gustatory chemical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration of a chemical .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration in a concentration gradient of a specific chemical .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a pigmented cell ,  such as a melanocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pigmented cell differentiation .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an iridophore .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a xanthophore cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of iridophore differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of xanthophore differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pigment cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pigment cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of iridophore differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of xanthophore differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of iridophore differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of xanthophore differentiation .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory light stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory mechanical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an orientational stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events in which a light stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal as part of the sensory perception of light .
the series of events involved in equilibrioception in which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal as part of sensory perception .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a touch stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of touch in which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events by which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids .
any process that modulates the activity of the enzyme nitric - oxide synthase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of the enzyme nitric - oxide synthase .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of the enzyme nitric - oxide synthase .
any process that modulates the activity of the enzyme lipoprotein lipase .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of the enzyme lipoprotein lipase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of the enzyme lipoprotein lipase .
the process in which a microtubule is broken down into smaller segments .
the cell cycle process in which a connection between chromatids assembles ,  indicating where an exchange of homologous segments has taken place by the crossing - over of non - sister chromatids .
the directed movement of mrna ,  messenger ribonucleic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription involved in the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules that do not require the presence of calcium for the interaction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium - independent cell - cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium - independent cell - cell adhesion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
the cell cycle process in which the controlled breakdown of the nuclear envelope during meiotic cell division occurs .
the controlled breakdown of the nuclear envelope during the first division of meiosis .
the controlled breakdown of the nuclear envelope during the second division of meiosis .
the controlled breakdown of the nuclear envelope in the context of a normal process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activity of the transcription factor nf - kappab .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
the growth of a synapse at a neuromuscular junction ,  the site of apposition of a motor end plate and the subneural cleft of the skeletal muscle fiber that it innervates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a smooth muscle cell ;  smooth muscle lacks transverse striations in its constituent fibers and are almost always involuntary .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a striated muscle cell ;  striated muscle fibers are divided by transverse bands into striations ,  and cardiac and voluntary muscle are types of striated muscle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
the directed movement of substances out of the nucleus .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of ,  or within the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome are joined along the entire length of the chromosome during meiosis .
the cell cycle process in which chromosome structure is altered from the condensed form held during meiosis to the relaxed dispersed form held in resting cells .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a prosthetic group ,  the non - amino acid portion of certain protein molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a prosthetic group .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a prosthetic group .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a prosthetic group .
the process of binding or confining calcium ions such that they are separated from other components of a biological system .
the process in which calcium ions sequestered in the endoplasmic reticulum ,  golgi apparatus or mitochondria are released into the cytosolic compartment .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which both atoms of oxygen from one molecule of o2 are incorporated into the  ( reduced )  product ( s )  of the reaction .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cartilage element over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that serves to move duplicated chromosomes apart .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the spindle .
the lengthening of the distance between poles of the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process in which a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere .
the directed movement of rna to a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
the cell cycle process in which aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle midzone .
the cell cycle process in which the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components forms the spindle midzone .
the formation of the spindle midzone ,  the area in the center of the spindle where the spindle microtubules from opposite poles overlap ,  as a part of the process of meiosis .
the process of creating protein polymers ,  compounds composed of a large number of component monomers ;  polymeric proteins may be made up of different or identical monomers .
the process in which protein polymers ,  compounds composed of a large number of component monomers ,  are broken down .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the release into the cytosolic compartment of calcium ions sequestered in the endoplasmic reticulum or mitochondria .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the release into the cytosolic compartment of calcium ions sequestered in the endoplasmic reticulum or mitochondria .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the release into the cytosolic compartment of calcium ions sequestered in the endoplasmic reticulum or mitochondria .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the binding or confining calcium ions such that they are separated from other components of a biological system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the binding or confining calcium ions such that they are separated from other components of a biological system .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the binding or confining calcium ions such that they are separated from other components of a biological system .
the directed movement of the spindle to a specific location in the cell .
any process that set the alignment of spindle relative to other cellular structures .
the cell cycle process in which the directed movement of the meiotic spindle to a specific location in the cell occurs .
any process that set the alignment of meiotic spindle relative to other cellular structures .
the replication of a centrosome ,  a structure comprised of a pair of centrioles and peri - centriolar material from which a microtubule spindle apparatus is organized .
the process in which duplicated centrosome components move away from each other .
the process resulting in division and partitioning of components of a cell to form more cells ;  may or may not be accompanied by the physical separation of a cell into distinct ,  individually membrane - bounded daughter cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
the directed movement of a chromosome to a specific location .
the cell cycle process in which paired chromosomes are detached from each other .
the directed movement of chromosomes in the center of the spindle towards the spindle poles ,  mediated by the shortening of microtubules attached to the chromosomes .
the process in which sister chromatids are physically detached from each other during mitosis .
the process in which chromosomes are physically detached from each other during meiosis .
the process in which paired chromosomes are physically detached from each other during male meiosis .
the process in which paired chromosomes are physically detached from each other during female meiosis .
the alignment of chromosomes at the metaphase plate  ( spindle equator )  ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the spindle .
the cell cycle process in which chromosomes are aligned at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the meiotic spindle ,  during meiosis .
the alteration of chromosome structure from the condensed form to a relaxed disperse form .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna segregation  ( usually by mitosis or meiosis )  and the beginning of dna synthesis .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of dna segregation  ( usually by mitosis or meiosis )  .
the cell cycle phase ,  following g1 ,  during which dna synthesis takes place .
progression through the phases of the meiotic cell cycle ,  in which canonically a cell replicates to produce four offspring with half the chromosomal content of the progenitor cell via two nuclear divisions .
the cell cycle phase ,  following metaphase ,  during which the chromosomes separate and migrate towards the poles of the spindle .
the cell cycle phase ,  following prophase or prometaphase in higher eukaryotes ,  during which chromosomes become aligned on the equatorial plate of the cell .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of m phase of meiosis and mitosis and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when prophase of meiosis or mitosis begins .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase during m phase of mitosis and meiosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase and occurs as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase which begins after cytokinesis and ends when meiotic prophase begins .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when mitotic prophase begins .
the cell cycle process in which the reformation of the nuclear envelope during meiosis occurs .
the reformation of the nuclear envelope during meiosis i .
the reformation of the nuclear envelope during meiosis ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
the series of events during equilibrioception required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any apoptotic process in a neuron ,  the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a series of molecular signals in which a stress - activated map kinase cascade relays one or more of the signals ;  map kinase cascades involve at least three protein kinase activities and culminate in the phosphorylation and activation of a map kinase .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a receptor for hormones .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
the multiplication or reproduction of myoblasts ,  resulting in the expansion of a myoblast cell population .
any process that reduces the internal ph of a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process that modulates the internal ph of a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process that increases the internal ph of a cell ,  measured by the concentration of the hydrogen ion .
any process in which a protein is maintained in the nucleus and prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of cortisol from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of cortisol from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of cortisol from a cell .
the joining of the lipid bilayer membrane around a vesicle with the lipid bilayer membrane around the vacuole .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the cytosol of a cell or between the cytosol and its surroundings .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of a filopodium ,  a thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast or amoeba ,  or an axonal growth cone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of a filopodium ,  a thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast or amoeba ,  or an axonal growth cone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of a filopodium ,  a thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast or amoeba ,  or an axonal growth cone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of unidimensional cell growth ,  the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size in one  [ spatial ]  dimension or along one axis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of unidimensional cell growth ,  the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size in one  [ spatial ]  dimension or along one axis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of unidimensional cell growth ,  the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size in one  [ spatial ]  dimension or along one axis .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the cytoplasm of a cell or between mitochondria and their surroundings .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the smooth endoplasmic reticulum of a cell or between the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and its surroundings .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of one or more methyl groups to lysine at position 9 of the histone .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of one or more methyl groups to lysine at position 4 of the histone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 4 of histone h3 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 9 of histone h3 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 4 of histone h3 .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 4 of histone h3 .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 9 of histone h3 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 9 of histone h3 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein as part of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by individual cells .
any process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
the series of events in which a stimulus is received by a cell or organism and converted into a molecular signal .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a virus that act to protect the cell or organism .
the directed movement of acetylcholine into a cell ,  typically presynaptic neurons or glial cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine into a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of acetylcholine into a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of acetylcholine into a cell .
any process in which an organelle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process in which the golgi is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
any process in which a mitochondrion or mitochondria are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
any process in which the nucleus is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
any process in which a vesicle or vesicles are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
the directed movement of a vesicle to a specific location .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is maintained in a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process in which is the spindle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the directed movement of the mitochondrion to a specific location .
the directed movement of an organelle to a specific location .
any process in which an organelle is maintained in a specific location within a cell and prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process in which nuclear pores are transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in which membrane rafts are transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a membrane .
any process in which a cell is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in which the golgi is maintained in a specific location within a cell and prevented from moving elsewhere .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
obsolete .any process in which an organism has a behavioral effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
the directed movement of sister chromosomes from the center of the spindle towards the spindle poles ,  mediated by the shortening of microtubules attached to the chromosomes ,  during meiosis ii .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of a symbiont organism .
any process mediated by an organism that results in the death of cells in the symbiont organism .
any process in which a pigment granule is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
the directed movement of pigment granules within a cell towards the cell periphery .
the directed movement of dispersed pigment granules towards the center of the cell .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of the mitochondrial membrane potential ,  the electric potential existing across the mitochondrial membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane .
the process in which the potential difference across the mitochondrial membrane is reduced from its steady state level .
any process mediated by an organism that results in the death of cells in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardioblast differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized mesodermal cell acquires the specialized structural and / or functional features of a cardioblast .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardioblast differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized mesodermal cell acquires the specialized structural and / or functional features of a cardioblast .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardioblast differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized mesodermal cell acquires the specialized structural and / or functional features of a cardioblast .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase b signaling ,  a series of reactions mediated by the intracellular serine / threonine kinase protein kinase b .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase b signaling ,  a series of reactions mediated by the intracellular serine / threonine kinase protein kinase b .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase b signaling ,  a series of reactions mediated by the intracellular serine / threonine kinase protein kinase b .
the process in which membrane potential decreases with respect to its steady - state potential ,  usually from negative potential to a more positive potential .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the change in the membrane potential of the mitochondria from negative to positive .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the change in the membrane potential of the mitochondria from negative to positive .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the change in the membrane potential of the mitochondria from negative to positive .
the directed movement of pigment granules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a pigment granule to a specific location .
the addition of a sulfate group to a molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the directed movement of catecholamines ,  a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
the directed movement of l - glutamate ,  the l - enantiomer of the anion of 2 - aminopentanedioic acid ,  into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a light intermediate chain of the dynein complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synapse assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a synapse .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synapse assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a synapse .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synapse assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a synapse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter glutamate .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter glutamate .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter glutamate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomerase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomerase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of the enzyme telomerase ,  which catalyzes of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the directed movement of an organism or motile cell on ,  within or near its host organism .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher level of a physical stimulus involved in energy generation ,  such as light ,  oxygen ,  and oxidizable substrates .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent to which it enters into the host organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cyclic nucleotide ,  a nucleotide in which the phosphate group is in diester linkage to two positions on the sugar residue and the base is a purine .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a carboxylic ester bond .
catalysis of the reaction: phosphatidylinositol phosphate ( n )   +  h2o = phosphatidylinositol phosphate ( n - 1 )   +  phosphate .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a muscle cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a striated muscle cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cardiac myofibril over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ventricular cardiac myofibril over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cardiac cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature state .
the process in which a cardiac muscle precursor cell acquires specialized features of a cardiac muscle cell .
the process in which the anatomical structures of cardiac muscle tissue are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structure of cardiac atrium muscle is generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of cardiac ventricle muscle is generated and organized .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a cardiac muscle cell in the atrium .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a ventricular cardiac muscle cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cardiac muscle cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an atrial cardiac muscle cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a ventricular cardiac muscle cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the hypochord over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the increase in size or mass of a cardiac muscle ,  where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle fiber development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle fiber development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle fiber development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle growth .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle growth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue development .
an organelle consisting of a network of tubules that functions in targeting molecules ,  such as receptors transporters and lipids ,  to the plasma membrane .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a recycling endosome .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that serves to move duplicated chromosomes apart ,  in the presence of centrosomes .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the astral spindle in male meiotic cells .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of phosphate ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of zinc ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of manganese ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of iron ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cadmium ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of transition metal ions within an organism or cell .
a wide pore channel activity that enables the transport of a solute across a membrane via a gap junction hemi - channel .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of sodium ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of anions within an organism or cell .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical at the level of the cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
the process in which a solute is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase - containing small molecule: a nucleobase ,  a nucleoside ,  or a nucleotide .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of lipid within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of acylglycerol within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of sterol within an organism or cell .
the infolding of the epithelial sheet into the embryo involved in deuterostomic gastrulation .
the inturning of an epithelial sheet over the basal surface of an outer layer involved in deuterostomic gastrulation .
the migration of individual cells into the embryo involved in deuterostomic gastrulation .
the splitting or migration of one epithelial sheet into two involved in the process of deuterostomic gastrulation .
the expansion of one cell sheet over other cells involved in deuterostomic gastrulation .
a metabolic process that results in the removal or addition of one or more electrons to or from a substance ,  with or without the concomitant removal or addition of a proton or protons .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle contraction .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the digestive system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
an automatic response to a stimulus beginning with a nerve impulse from a receptor and ending with the action of an effector such as a gland or a muscle .
a reflex process in which a response to an angular or linear acceleration stimulus begins with an afferent nerve impulse from a receptor in the inner ear and ends with the compensatory action of eye muscles .
a vestibular reflex by which a response to an angular acceleration stimulus begins with an afferent nerve impulse from a receptor in the semi - circular canal and ends with the compensatory action of eye muscles .
the vesicular release of glycine from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of glycine receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of the roof of the mouth from an initial condition to its mature state .
the morphogenetic process in which an epithelium narrows along one axis and lengthens in a perpendicular axis .
the morphogenetic process in which an epithelium narrows along one axis and lengthens in a perpendicular axis usually resulting in the formation of the three primary germ layers ,  ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
the morphogenetic process in which an epithelium narrows along one axis and lengthens in a perpendicular axis contributing to the lengthening of the axis of an organism .
the morphogenetic process in which an epithelium narrows along one axis and lengthens in a perpendicular axis contribution to the shaping of an organ .
the directed migration of individual cells and small groups of cells toward the dorsal midline during gastrulation .
the interdigitation of cells along the mediolateral axis during gastrulation .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features cells that make up the notochord .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a notochord cell over time ,  from its formation to its mature structure .
the assembly and arrangement of a vacuole within a cell of the notochord .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pharyngeal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the expansion of a cardiac muscle cell population by cell division .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a bipolar cell ,  the last neuron to be generated in the retina .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the retina over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the retina is generated and organized .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
the multicellular organismal process in which the heart decreases in volume in a characteristic way to propel blood through the body .
muscle contraction of cardiac muscle tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein glycosylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation ,  contributing to the restoration of integrity to a damaged tissue following an injury .
blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels and contribute to the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the process in which the anatomical structure of the retina is generated and organized in a camera - type eye during the embryonic life stage .
formation of the specialized region on the dorsalmost side of the embryo that acts as the main signaling center establishing the vertebrate body plan .
formation of the specialized region of the embryonic shield of the embryo that acts as the main signaling center establishing the teleost body plan .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell and ending with the positioning of the mitotic spindle .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors signal via downstream effectors including c - jun n - terminal kinase  ( jnk )  to modulate cytoskeletal elements and control cell polarity .
the process that organizes a synapse so that it attains its fully functional state .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a resting potential ,  the electrical charge across the plasma membrane ,  with the interior of the cell negative with respect to the exterior .
a synapse in which an action potential in the presynaptic cell increases the probability of an action potential occurring in the postsynaptic cell .
a synapse in which an action potential in the presynaptic cell reduces the probability of an action potential occurring in the postsynaptic cell .
any process that modulates the potential difference across a post - synaptic membrane .
a process that leads to a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
a process that causes a temporary decrease in postsynaptic membrane potential due to the flow of negatively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
a compound molecular function in which an effector function is controlled by one or more regulatory components .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together two or more molecules through a selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric interaction ,  permitting those molecules to function in a coordinated way .
a nonmotile primary cilium that is found at the apical surface of auditory receptor cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycinergic synaptic transmission .
any process that stops or decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycinergic synaptic transmission .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycinergic synaptic transmission .
the assembly ,  arrangement ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures that is involved in the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the internalization of bacteria ,  immune complexes and other particulate matter or of an apoptotic cell by phagocytosis .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of inner ear receptor cells .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a vestibular hair cell .
any process that alters the size or shape of a vestibular receptor cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a vestibular receptor cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an inner ear receptor cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a cell becomes committed to become an inner ear receptor cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a stereocilium .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a stereocilium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
any process that decreases or stops the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a somatotropin secreting cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a prolactin secreting cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a corticotropic hormone secreting cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a thyroid - stimulating hormone - secreting cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a prolactin secreting cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a startle magnitude is reduced when the startling stimulus is preceded by a low - intensity prepulse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane ,  by the fusion of the plasma membranes of two or more individual cells .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane ,  by the fusion of the plasma membranes of two or more individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inactivation of gene expression by a posttranscriptional mechanism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a dopamine receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopamine receptor protein signaling pathway activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the dopamine receptor protein signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the adenosine receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the adenosine receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the adenosine receptor signaling pathway .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding a cilium .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a limb over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the specific behavior of a male organism that is associated with reproduction .
the specific behavior of a female organism that is associated with reproduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipase activity ,  the hydrolysis of a lipid or phospholipid .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipase activity ,  the hydrolysis of a lipid or phospholipid .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipase activity ,  the hydrolysis of a lipid or phospholipid .
the separation of the single opening of the digestive ,  urinary ,  and reproductive tracts ,  the cloaca ,  into multiple isolated openings during development .
a clathrin - sculpted lipid bilayer membrane - enclosed vesicle after clathrin release .
a clathrin - sculpted lipid bilayer membrane - enclosed vesicle after clathrin release and containing acetylcholine .
the volume enclosed by a cytoplasmic vesicle .
formation of the endocardium of the heart .
a first transient wave of blood cell production that ,  in vertebrates ,  gives rise to erythrocytes  ( red blood cells )  and myeloid cells .
a second wave of blood cell production that ,  in vertebrates ,  generates long - term hemopoietic stem cells that continously provide erythroid ,  myeloid and lymphoid lineages throughout adulthood .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the characteristics of a mature hemangioblast .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a hematopoietic stem cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a photoreceptor cell in a camera - type eye .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a retinal rod cell .
a transition where a mesenchymal cell establishes apical / basolateral polarity ,  forms intercellular adhesive junctions ,  synthesizes basement membrane components and becomes an epithelial cell .
the process of negative regulation of cell adhesion that results in a cell or sheet of cells splitting off from an existing epithelial sheet .
the negative regulation of cell adhesion process in which a neuroblast splits off of a neurectodermal sheet .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
the series of events in which information about the density of cells in a population is received by direct cell - cell contact and is converted into a molecular signal ,  resulting in the cessation of cell growth or proliferation .
the negative regulation of cell growth in response to increased cell density .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation in response to cell density .
the series of events in which information about the density of cells in a population is received and converted into a molecular signal .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined anatomical structure of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glial cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of glial cell proliferation .
any process that stops or decreases the rate or extent of glial cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which a multicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the behavior associated with the intake of food .
any process that modulates the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that increases the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that decreases the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
the assembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
the process in which the anatomical structures of skeletal joints are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovulation ,  the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovulation ,  the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovulation ,  the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that increases the rate or extent of the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that decreases the rate or extent of the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
cell motility due to the motion of one or more eukaryotic cilia .
the movement of cilia of epithelial cells of the left right organizer  ( lro )  ,  also referred to as the node in mouse or the kupffer's vesicle in zebrafish ,  resulting in the leftward fluid flow across the lro and generation or transport of a signal which determines asymmetry in an organism's body plan with respect to the left and right halves .
a process that modulates synaptic plasticity such that synapses are changed resulting in the increase in the rate ,  or frequency of synaptic transmission at the synapse .
differentiated cytoplasm associated with a pole of an oocyte ,  egg or early embryo that will be inherited by the cells that will give rise to the germ line .
movement of cilia mediated by motor proteins that contributes to the movement of a cell .
any process that modulates the rate frequency or extent of cilium movement involved in ciliary motility .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of myofibril assembly by organization of muscle actomyosin into sarcomeres .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of myofibril assembly by organization of muscle actomyosin into sarcomeres .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of myofibril assembly by organization of muscle actomyosin into sarcomeres .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the activity of a molecule that controls the survival ,  growth ,  differentiation and effector function of tissues and cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the activity of a molecule that controls the survival ,  growth ,  differentiation and effector function of tissues and cells .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the activity of a molecule that controls the survival ,  growth ,  differentiation and effector function of tissues and cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reaction involving the removal of one or more phosphate groups from a phosphatidylinositol .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential in the polarizing direction towards the resting potential ,  usually from positive to negative .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential in the polarizing direction towards the resting potential in a ventricular cardiomyocyte .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of blood vessel remodeling ,  the reorganization or renovation of existing blood vessels .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of blood vessel remodeling ,  the reorganization or renovation of existing blood vessels .
any process that modulates the activity of a ryanodine - sensitive calcium - release channel .
any process that decreases the activity of a ryanodine - sensitive calcium - release channel .
any process that increases the activity of a ryanodine - sensitive calcium - release channel .
a transition where a cardiac epithelial cell loses apical / basolateral polarity ,  severs intercellular adhesive junctions ,  degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell .
erythrocyte differentiation which occurs as part of the process of definitive hemopoiesis .
erythrocyte differentiation which occurs as part of the process of primitive hemopoiesis .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a head from an initial condition to its mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the head are generated and organized .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a face from an initial condition to its mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the face are generated and organized .
the directed movement of a motile cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
the actin filament - based movement by which cytoplasmic actin filaments slide past one another resulting in a contraction that propels the cell from one place to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the membrane surrounding the inner segment of a vertebrate photoreceptor .
the process of creating a trabecula in an organ .
the process of creating a trabecula in the heart .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of bone over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which bones are generated and organized .
the process in which bones are generated and organized as a result of the conversion of initial cartilaginous anlage into bone .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage that will provide a scaffold for mineralization of endochondral bones .
the process in which any suture between cranial bones is generated and organized .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential in the polarizing direction towards the resting potential in an atrial cardiomyocyte .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a cardiac myoblast .
the process in which a nerve invades a tissue and makes functional synaptic connection within the tissue .
the neurite development process that generates a long process of a neuron ,  as it invades a target tissue .
the assembly of a synapse within a target tissue in which a nerve is invading .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a pathway restricted smad protein .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of smad protein signal transduction .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of smad protein signal transduction .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the smad protein signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of pathway - restricted smad protein phosphorylation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of pathway - restricted smad protein phosphorylation .
the cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor ,  causing a change in the activity of a smad protein ,  and ultimately effecting a change in the functioning of the cell .
the directed movement of calcium ions  ( ca2 +  )  into ,  out of or within the cytosol .
the directed movement of calcium ions  ( ca2 +  )  into the cytosol .
the removal of tubulin heterodimers from one or both ends of an axonemal microtubule .
the process in which the anatomical structures of muscle tissue are generated and organized .
giant syncytial uncleaved cell containing nutrient store for embryonic development in the form of semicrystalline phospholipoprotein and contained within yolk granules .
the increase in size or mass of the heart .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of heart growth .
any process that increases the rate or extent of heart growth .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of branches in the open tracheal system are generated and organized .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction of the hindgut ,  the posterior part of the alimentary canal ,  including the rectum ,  and the large intestine .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction of the hindgut ,  the posterior part of the alimentary canal ,  including the rectum ,  and the large intestine .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle contraction .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a pharynx from an initial condition to its mature state .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
the negative regulation of fertilization process that takes place as part of egg activation ,  ensuring that only a single sperm fertilizes the egg .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of transcription as a part of the process of egg activation .
the process that increases the concentration of calcium ions in the cytosol after fertilization or the physiological activation of an egg .
the process of secretion by a cell that results in the release of intracellular molecules contained within a cortical granule by fusion of the vesicle with the plasma membrane of a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cortical granule exocytosis by directing movement of calcium ions  ( ca2 +  )  into the cytosol .
a secretory vesicle that is stored under the cell membrane of an egg .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a mesenchymal tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell projection assembly .
the process in which the anatomical structures of cartilage are generated and organized .
the progression of muscle tissue over time ,  from its initial formation to its mature state .
the progression of a skeletal muscle organ over time from its initial formation to its mature state .
the progression of the respiratory system over time from its formation to its mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a necroptotic process ,  a necrotic cell death process that results from the activation of endogenous cellular processes ,  such as signaling involving death domain receptors or toll - like receptors .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a necroptotic process ,  a necrotic cell death process that results from the activation of endogenous cellular processes ,  such as signaling involving death domain receptors or toll - like receptors .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a necroptotic process ,  a necrotic cell death process that results from the activation of endogenous cellular processes ,  such as signaling involving death domain receptors or toll - like receptors .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of necrotic cell death .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of cell death .
the increase in size or mass of an anatomical structure that contributes to the structure attaining its shape .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of an anatomical structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized from an epithelium .
the process in which epiblast cells acquire specialized features of neuroepithelial cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of dna - templated transcription termination ,  the process in which transcription is completed ;  the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases ,  the rna - dna hybrid dissociates ,  and rna polymerase releases the dna .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of dna - dependent transcription termination ,  the process in which transcription is completed ;  the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases ,  the rna - dna hybrid dissociates ,  and rna polymerase releases the dna .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of peptide hormone processing .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of peptide hormone processing .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of peptide hormone processing .
the morphogenetic process in which an epithelial sheet bends along a linear axis .
the process involved in the specification of the identity of a cell in a field of cells that is being instructed as to how to differentiate .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell of the intestine .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell of the intestine over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a ventral spinal cord interneuron .
the commitment of cells to specific cell fates and their capacity to differentiate into particular kinds of cells within a field of cells that will exhibit a certain pattern of differentiation .
a process involved in commitment of a cell to a fate in a developmental field .
modulates the rate of ntp hydrolysis by a ntpase .
creation of the central hole of a tube in an anatomical structure by sealing the edges of an epithelial fold .
the attachment of one cell to another cell along the edges of two epithelial folds ,  giving rise to the lumen of an epithelial tube .
the attachment of one cell to another cell along the edges of two epithelial folds ,  giving rise to the lumen of the neural tube .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of adipose tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of chromosome condensation ,  the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of vesicle - mediated transport ,  the directed movement of substances ,  either within a vesicle or in the vesicle membrane ,  into ,  out of or within a cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of er to golgi vesicle - mediated transport ,  the directed movement of substances from the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  to the golgi ,  mediated by cop ii vesicles .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of homologous chromosome segregation ,  the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the first division of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of meiosis i ,  a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the first phase of meiosis ,  in which cells divide and homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two daughter cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of microtubule - based movement ,  the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules and other particles along microtubules ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of branching morphogenesis ,  the process in which the anatomical structures of branches are generated and organized .
a tissue homeostatic process required for the maintenance of the structure of the intestinal epithelium .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of intestinal epithelial structure maintenance ,  a tissue homeostatic process required for the maintenance of the structure of the intestinal epithelium .
any process the increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of intestinal epithelial structure maintenance ,  a tissue homeostatic process required for the maintenance of the structure of the intestinal epithelium .
behavior by which an organism locates food .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation resulting in the maintenance of a steady - state number of cells within a tissue .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptosis that results in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation that contributes to the maintenance of a steady state of a cell type within a tissue .
the developmental process in which an ectodermal placode forms .
the commitment of cells to specific cell fates of the endoderm ,  ectoderm ,  or mesoderm as a part of gastrulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that results in cells adopting an endoderm ,  ectoderm or mesoderm cell fate .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a transforming growth factor beta receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to an unspecified cell adopting a mesoderm fate .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transforming growth factor beta receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands and ultimately resulting in the specification of a mesodermal fate .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transforming growth factor beta receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands and ultimately resulting in the commitment of an unspecified fate to adopt an endoderm fate .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to a cell becoming specified to adopt a mesodermal fate .
a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of any member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family binding to a cell surface receptor that results in an increase in the rate ,  frequency or extent of a wnt signaling pathway .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
the epithelial to mesenchymal transition process in which a mesodermal cell loses apical / basolateral polarity ,  severs intercellular adhesive junctions ,  degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell as part of the process of gastrulation .
any process in which mrna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location within an oocyte that results in a pattern being established in the embryo .
any process in which mrna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location within the oocyte and / or syncytial embryo that contributes to the specification of the anterior / posterior axis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of translation of mrnas that contribute to the specification of the anterior / posterior axis .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transforming growth factor beta receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands and ultimately resulting in the specification of an axial mesodermal fate .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes that contributes to the formation of the neural plate anterior / posterior pattern .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a retinoic acid receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands that contributes to the formation of the anterior / posterior pattern of the neural plate .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands contributing to the anterior / posterior pattern of the neural plate .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a transforming growth factor beta receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the formation of the neural plate anterior / posterior pattern .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of wnt signaling through beta - catenin that results in the formation of the neural plate anterior / posterior pattern .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the wnt signaling pathway through beta - catenin ,  the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the wnt signaling pathway through beta - catenin in the anterior end of the neural plate .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of activation of the transmembrane protein smoothened contributing to the dorsal / ventral pattern of the neural tube .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of the animal / vegetal axis in the oocyte .
the process in which a venous blood vessel endothelial cell acquires specialized features of a lymphatic vessel endothelial cell ,  a thin flattened cell that lines the inside surfaces of lymph vessels .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a blood vessel endothelial cell ,  a thin flattened cell that lines the inside surfaces of blood vessels .
the commitment of a cell to an endothelial cell fate and its capacity to differentiate into an endothelial cell .
the progression of the artery over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the venous blood vessel over time from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized endothelial cell acquires specialized features of an arterial endothelial cell ,  a thin flattened cell that lines the inside surfaces of arteries .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized endothelial cell acquires specialized features of a venous endothelial cell ,  a thin flattened cell that lines the inside surfaces of veins .
the commitment of a cell to an arterial endothelial cell fate and its capacity to differentiate into an arterial endothelial cell .
the commitment of a cell to a venous endothelial cell fate and its capacity to differentiate into an venous endothelial cell .
the commitment of a cell to a blood vessel endothelial cell fate and its capacity to differentiate into a blood vessel endothelial cell .
the process involved in the specification of identity of an endothelial cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the commitment of a cell to a specific fate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the commitment of a cell to a specific fate and contributes to a cell adopting a venous endothelial cell fate .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of an extracellular ligand to a notch receptor on the surface of the target cell and contributing to the commitment of a cell to an arterial endothelial cell fate .
the process of the coordinated growth and sprouting of lymph vessels giving rise to the organized lymphatic system .
the orderly movement of venous endothelial cells out of the veins giving rise to the precursors of lymphatic endothelial cells .
establishment of the barrier between the blood and the brain .
the progression of the semicircular canal from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the progession of the lateral semicircular canal from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of the semicircular canal from the otic vesicle .
the pattern specification process that results in the subdivision of the otic epithelium in space to define an area or volume in which cells will differentiate to give rise to the semicircular canals .
the morphogenetic process in which an epithelial sheet bends along a linear axis and gives rise to a pouch that will form a semicircular canal .
creation of the central hole of the semicircular canal by sealing the edges of the pouch that forms during the process of semicircular canal formation .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs when a semicircular canal epithelial cell acquires the structural features that allow it to contribute to the process of semicircular canal fusion .
a process that results in the breakdown of the basement membrane that contributes to the process of semicircular canal fusion .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a retinoic acid receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands that contributes to the dorsal ventral patterning of the spinal cord .
the developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within the neural plate to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate .
the pattern specification process that results in the subdivision of an axis or axes of the neural plate in space to define an area or volume in which specific patterns of cell differentiation will take place or in which cells interpret a specific environment .
the commitment of neurectodermal cells to cells of the eye field and their capacity to differentiate into eye field cells .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of a camera - type eye from unspecified neurectoderm .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of meiosis i ,  a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the first phase of meiosis ,  in which cells divide and homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two daughter cells .
the commitment of cells to specific cardiac cell fates and their capacity to differentiate into cardiac cells .
the process involved in the specification of cardiac cell identity .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of the heart from unspecified parts .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized structural and / or functional features of an endocardial cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the downregulation of gene expression through the action of micrornas  ( mirnas )  ,  endogenous 21 - 24 nucleotide small rnas processed from stem - loop rna precursors  ( pre - mirnas )  .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing by mirna .
any process that regulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing by rna .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing by rna .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing ,  the transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing ,  the transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
the pattern specification process that results in the subdivision of the left / right axis of the embryonic heart tube in space to define an area or volume in which specific patterns of cell differentiation will take place .
the pattern specification process that results in the subdivision of the left / right axis in space to define an area or volume in which specific patterns of cell differentiation will take place or in which cells interpret a specific environment .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another that will contribute to the progression of the heart over time ,  from its initial formation ,  to the mature organ .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another that contribute to the formation of the heart .
the orderly movement of a cardioblast toward the midline to form the heart field .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the blood vessels of the heart over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of blood vessels of the heart are generated and organized .
blood vessel formation in the heart when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels .
the differentiation of endothelial cells from progenitor cells that contributes to blood vessel development in the heart ,  and the de novo formation of blood vessels and tubes .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another that will contribute to the differentiation of an endothelial cell that will form the blood vessels of the heart .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another that will contribute to the formation of new blood vessels in the heart from pre - existing blood vessels .
the regulated release of a hormone into the circulatory system .
morphogenesis of a kidney .a kidney is an organ that filters the blood and excretes the end products of body metabolism in the form of urine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the branching morphogenesis by which the kidney progresses from its initial formation to the mature state .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another and contributes to the progression of the kidney over time ,  from its formation to the mature organ .
any developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within the kidney to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the cells of the kidney as it progresses from its formation to the mature state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation that contributes to the shaping of the kidney .
an system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the hepaticobiliary system .
the progression of the hepaticobiliary system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the common bile duct over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the gall bladder over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the hepatic duct over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a mrna catabolic process ,  the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a mrna catabolic process ,  the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a hepatoblast .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
the membrane organization process that joins two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane .
the regrowth of cardiac muscle tissue to repair injured or damaged muscle fibers in the postnatal stage .
the establishment of a barrier between endothelial cell layers ,  such as those in the brain ,  lung or intestine ,  to exert specific and selective control over the passage of water and solutes ,  thus allowing formation and maintenance of compartments that differ in fluid and solute composition .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the endodermal digestive tract are generated and organized .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cartilage development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cartilage development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cartilage development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the growth of a cardiac muscle cell ,  where growth contributes to the progression of the cell over time from its initial formation to its mature state .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the growth of a cardiac muscle cell ,  where growth contributes to the progression of the cell over time from its initial formation to its mature state .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the growth of a cardiac muscle cell ,  where growth contributes to the progression of the cell over time from its initial formation to its mature state .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the growth of a cardiac muscle cell ,  where growth contributes to the progression of the cell over time from its initial formation to its mature state .
the progression of a somite from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the myotome over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the sclerotome over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the progression of a muscle structure over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of neural retina development ,  the progression of the neural retina over time from its initial formation to the mature structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of neural retina development ,  the progression of the neural retina over time from its initial formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of neural retina development ,  the progression of the neural retina over time from its initial formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of histone h3 - k27 methylation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of histone h3 - k27 methylation .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of histone h3 - k27 methylation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of turning behavior involved in mating .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of turning behavior involved in mating .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of turning behavior involved in mating .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein tyrosine kinase activity .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein tyrosine kinase activity .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein tyrosine kinase activity .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a neuroendocrine cell .
morphogenesis of the pancreas .morphogenesis is the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
the process in which the branches of the pancreas are generated and organized .
any process that decreases the rate or extent of heart growth .
the morphogenetic process in which the foregut region specified to become the pancreas forms a bud .
the process in which a specific region of the gut is delineated into the area in which the pancreas will develop .
the close range interaction of two or more cells or tissues that causes the cells of the gut to change their fates and specify the development of the pancreas .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds that is mediated by the proteasome .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a branched epithelium are generated and organized .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an extracellular matrix of the endocardium .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized from an endothelium .
any process that decreases the stability of an mrna molecule ,  making it more vulnerable to degradative processes .
the specification and formation of monopolar intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a chondrocyte over time ,  from its commitment to its mature state .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a chondrocyte over time ,  from its commitment to its mature state .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the progression of the sclerotome over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the progression of the sclerotome over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the taste bud over time ,  from its formation to the mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the taste bud are generated and organized .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of the taste bud from unspecified parts .
the process in which force is generated within striated embryonic muscle tissue ,  resulting in a contraction of the muscle that contributes to the formation of an embryo's characteristic body morphology .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the mesonephros are generated and organized .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the cells of the mesonephros as it progresses from its formation to the mature state .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of the population in the mesonephros .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another and contributes to the progression of the mesonephros over time ,  from its formation to the mature organ .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mesonephros development .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a nephron in the mesonephros over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the mesonephros progressing from its initial formation to the mature state .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of mesonephros development .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mesonephros development .
any developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within the mesonephros to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the mesonephric nephron are generated and organized .
the morphogenetic process in which the renal epithelium narrows along one axis and lengthens in a perpendicular axis that contributes to the shaping of a nephron in the mesonephros .
coordinated organization of groups of cells in the plane of an epithelium that contributes to the shaping of a nephron in the mesonephros .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of a bipolar intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
a transition where a mesenchymal cell establishes apical / basolateral polarity ,  forms intercellular adhesive junctions ,  synthesizes basement membrane components and becomes an epithelial cell that will contribute to the shaping of the mesonephros .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  resulting a change in cell state that contributes to the progression of the kidney over time .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes that contributes to the progression of the mesonephros over time .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes that contribute to the progression of the mesonephric nephron over time .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vasculature of the retina over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the vasculature of the retina is generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vasculature of the cerebellum over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the cornea over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a blood vessel of the retina over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a cardiac neural crest cell that will migrate to the heart and contribute to its development .
the process aimed at the progression of a cardiac neural crest cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell that contributes to the development of the heart .
the process aimed at the progression of a cardiac neural crest cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell that contributes to the shaping of the outflow tract .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in cardiac neural crest cell differentiation .
any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a receptor on the surface of a cell to a physiological ligand ,  which contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands and contributing to the progression of the heart over time .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of an extracellular ligand to a notch receptor on the surface of the target cell and contributing to the progression of the heart over time .
the canonical wnt signaling pathway that contributes to an expansion of the population of cardiac muscle cells .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes that contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a renal filtration cell .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population that contributes to the shaping of the heart .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population that contributes to the shaping of the outflow tract .
the progression of the renal tubule over time from its formation to the mature form .
the process in which the renal tubule is generated by specification of cell fate ,  through the maintenance of cell polarity ,  regulated cell proliferation and morphogenetic cell rearrangements ,  shape changes and growth .
transfer of an organized electrical impulse across the heart to coordinate the contraction of cardiac muscles .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of monopolar intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via effectors other than beta - catenin and contributing to the progression of the heart over time .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules that contributes to the shaping of the heart .
any process that modulates the extent of cell adhesion contributing to the shaping of the heart .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors signal via downstream effectors including c - jun n - terminal kinase  ( jnk )  to modulate cytoskeletal elements and control cell polarity that contributes to the shaping of the heart .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors signal via downstream effectors including c - jun n - terminal kinase  ( jnk )  to modulate cytoskeletal elements and control cell polarity that contributes to the shaping of the outflow tract .
the multiplication or reproduction of neural precursor cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
the controlled release of a wnt protein from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a wnt protein from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a wnt protein from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a wnt protein from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the wnt signaling pathway by the controlled release of a wnt protein from a cell .
the developmental process pertaining to the progression of the optic chiasm from its initial formation to the mature structure .
any process that increases the activity of triglyceride lipase .
determination of the asymmetric location of the heart with respect to the left and right halves of the organism .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the activin family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and contributing to the process of heart jogging .
the orderly movement of a cell that will reside in the diencephalon .
the process of shaping a trabecula in an organ .
the process of shaping a trabecula in the heart .
the closure of the temporary ventral gap in the optic cup that contributes to its shaping .
any process that modulates the extent of cell growth .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter resulting in the increased frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sodium ions  ( na +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of vasculature of the renal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the renal system vasculature is generated and organized .
the process in which the kidney vasculature is generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vasculature of the kidney over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of a connective tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an interstitial cell of cajal .
the progression of the reproductive system over time from its formation to the mature structure .
obsolete .the part of the plasma membrane that contributes to the structure of a cell junction .
a membrane - bound intermediate cleavage - stage structure of individual or groups of chromosomes that coalesces and fuses with other karyomeres to form a nucleus during interphase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of type b pancreatic cell proliferation .
process whereby karyomere membranes fuse during interphase to form a single lobed nucleus .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady - state number of hematopoietic stem cells within a population of cells .
the directed movement of substances ,  in membrane - bounded vesicles ,  from the early sorting endosomes to the recycling endosomes .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a cilium .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a myeloid cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cilium .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a ganglion over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a sympathetic ganglion over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cranial ganglion over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a trigeminal ganglion over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of ganglion are generated and organized .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for ganglion to attain its fully functional state .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a cranial ganglion to attain its fully functional state .
the progression of an axon over time .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an actin filament bundle .
catalysis of the reaction adenylyl - molybdopterin  +  molybdate = molybdenum cofactor  +  amp .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a pharyngeal arch artery is generated and organized .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a sequence - specific dna binding rna polymerase ii transcription factor ,  any of the factors that interact selectively and non - covalently with a specific dna sequence in order to modulate transcription .
a cytokinesis that involves the function of a set of proteins that are part of the microfilament or microtubule cytoskeleton .
the process in which a neuron growth cone is directed to a specific target site in response to an attractive chemical signal .
the modification of histone h3 at a lysine in position 9 of the histone .
the process whose specific outcome is the replacement of an existing tooth with another tooth .
isoenergetic transfer of a ubiquitin - like protein  ( ulp )  from one protein to another via the reaction x - scp  +  y  -  >  y - scp  +  x ,  where both the x - scp and y - scp linkages are thioester bonds between the c - terminal amino acid of scp and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue .
isoenergetic transfer of atg12 from one protein to another via the reaction x - atg12  +  y  -  >  y - atg12  +  x ,  where both the x - atg12 and y - atg12 linkages are thioester bonds between the c - terminal amino acid of atg12 and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue .
catalysis of the transfer of a ubiquitin - like protein  ( ulp )  to a substrate protein via the reaction x - ulp  +  s  -  -  >  x  +  s - ulp ,  where x is either an e2 or e3 enzyme ,  the x - ulp linkage is a thioester bond ,  and the s - ulp linkage is an isopeptide bond between the c - terminal glycine of ulp and the epsilon - amino group of lysine residues in the substrate .
catalysis of the transfer of atg12 to a substrate protein via the reaction x - atg12  +  s  -  -  >  x  +  s - atg12 ,  where x is either an e2 or e3 enzyme ,  the x - atg12 linkage is a thioester bond ,  and the s - atg12 linkage is an isopeptide bond between the c - terminal amino acid of atg12 and the epsilon - amino group of lysine residues in the substrate .
neurotransmitter secretion that occurs in the absence of the action of a secretagogue or a presynaptic action potential .
neurotransmitter secretion that occurs in the presence of the action of a secretagogue or a presynaptic action potential .
any of the mitotic spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles and are thought to contribute to the forces that separate the poles and position them in relation to the rest of the cell .
the disaggregation of a mitochondrion into its constituent components .
catalysis of the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  lysine in peptide = coa  +  n - acetyl - lysine - peptide .
the membrane invagination process by which an autophagosomal membrane surrounds an object that will be degraded by macroautophagy .
the specific neuromuscular movement of a single organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
an defense response against a fungus mediated through an innate immune response .
catalysis of the reaction: gtp= ( 8s )  - 3' , 8 - cyclo - 7 , 8 - dihydroguanosine 5' - triphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction:   ( 8s )  - 3' , 8 - cyclo - 7 , 8 - dihydroguanosine 5' - triphosphate = cyclic pyranopterin phosphate  +  diphosphate .
a supramolecular fiber formed from fibronectin molecules .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase .
the part of the late spermatid or spermatozoon that contains the nucleus and acrosome .
any process in which the microtubule organizing center is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
the region of the neuronal cytoplasm located in dendritic spines .
that part of the lamellipodium which represents the distal part of the structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of mitochondria along microtubules in axons away from the cell body and towards the presynapse .
any process that activates or increasesthe frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of mitochondria along microtubules in axons away from the cell body and towards the presynapse .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of mitochondria along microtubules in axons away from the cell body and towards the presynapse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mini excitatory postsynaptic potential .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mini excitatory postsynaptic potential .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mini excitatory postsynaptic potential .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of astrocyte activation .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of astrocyte activation .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of astrocyte activation .
a change in morphology and behavior of a glial cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ampa glutamate receptor activity .
the process in which autophagosomes ,  double - membraned vesicles containing cytoplasmic material ,  fuse with a vacuole  ( yeast )  or lysosome  ( e .g .
the macroautophagy process in which specific structures are targeted by the autophagy process .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the multiplication or reproduction of chondrocytes in a growing endochondral bone ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the multiplication or reproduction of chondrocytes in a growing endochondral bone ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
a cellular process involving delivery of a portion of the cytoplasm to lysosomes or to the plant or fungal vacuole that does not involve direct transport through the endocytic or vacuolar protein sorting  ( vps )  pathways .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location in a plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  or rate of heme oxygenase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency or rate of heme oxygenase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency or rate of heme oxygenase activity .
the initial formation of the type asymmetry in an organism's body plan or part of an organism with respect to the left and right halves .
a process that contributes to the first meiotic division .
a process that coontributes to the second meiotic division .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
an extracellular matrix consisting mainly of proteins  ( especially collagen )  and glycosaminoglycans  ( mostly as proteoglycans )  that provides not only essential physical scaffolding for the cellular constituents but can also initiate crucial biochemical and biomechanical cues required for tissue morphogenesis ,  differentiation and homeostasis .
any process that modualtes the rate ,  frequency or extent of scf - dependent proteasomal ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process ,  the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  with ubiquitin - protein ligation catalyzed by an scf  ( skp1 / cul1 / f - box protein )  complex ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
any process that stops or decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of scf - dependent proteasomal ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process ,  the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  with ubiquitin - protein ligation catalyzed by an scf  ( skp1 / cul1 / f - box protein )  complex ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
any process that starts or increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of scf - dependent proteasomal ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process ,  the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  with ubiquitin - protein ligation catalyzed by an scf  ( skp1 / cul1 / f - box protein )  complex ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
any process that starts or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of cardiac epithelial to mesenchymal transition ,  a transition where a cardiac epithelial cell loses apical / basolateral polarity ,  severs intercellular adhesive junctions ,  degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell .
any process that starts or increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of cardiac epithelial to mesenchymal transition ,  a transition where a cardiac epithelial cell loses apical / basolateral polarity ,  severs intercellular adhesive junctions ,  degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell .
any process that stops or decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of cardiac epithelial to mesenchymal transition ,  a transition where a cardiac epithelial cell loses apical / basolateral polarity ,  severs intercellular adhesive junctions ,  degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the stomach over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed necrotic cell death .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed necrotic cell death .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed necrotic cell death .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial gene expression .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a pattern recognition receptor signaling pathway .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a pattern recognition receptor signaling pathway .
any process that regulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of somatic muscle development .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of somatic muscle development .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of somatic muscle development .
the pattern specification process in which the polarity of a body or organ axis is established and maintained .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a protein - containing complex .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and dna molecules to form a protein - dna complex .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
an organelle lumen that is part of an intracellular organelle .
the cellular homeostatic process that preserves a neuron in a stable ,  differentiated functional and structural state .
splicing of mrna substrates via recognition of the folded rna structure that brings the 5' and 3' splice sites into proximity and cleavage of the rna at both the 3' and 5' splice sites by an endonucleolytic mechanism ,  followed by ligation of the exons .
a series of molecular signals in which an intracellular signal is conveyed to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell .
the process in which voltage - gated calcium channels become localized together in high densities .
the protein modification process in which the translation - initiating methionine or formylmethionine residue is removed from a protein .
the covalent attachment and further modification of carbohydrate residues to a substrate molecule .
the intracellular plane ,  located halfway between the poles of the spindle ,  where chromosomes align during metaphase of mitotic or meiotic nuclear division .
the regulated release of glucagon from secretory granules in the a  ( alpha )  cells of the pancreas  ( islets of langerhans )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of glucagon .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of glucagon .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of glucagon .
the progression of the kupffer's vesicle over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis in a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
a cell - cell junction that seals cells together in an epithelium in a way that prevents even small molecules from leaking from one side of the sheet to the other .
a cell junction that mechanically attaches a cell  ( and its cytoskeleton )  to neighboring cells or to the extracellular matrix .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineral tissue development ,  the formation of hard tissues that consist mainly of inorganic compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineral tissue development ,  the formation of hard tissues that consist mainly of inorganic compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineral tissue development ,  the formation of hard tissues that consist mainly of inorganic compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tooth mineralization ,  the deposition of calcium salts in tooth structures .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tooth mineralization ,  the deposition of calcium salts in tooth structures .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tooth mineralization ,  the deposition of calcium salts in tooth structures .
a process of chromosome organization that is involved in a meiotic cell cycle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a synaptonemal complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
the transfer of multiple adp - ribose residues from nad to a protein amino acid ,  forming a poly ( adp - ribose )  chain .
any apoptotic process in a lymphocyte ,  a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of lymphocyte death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte death by apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte death by apoptotic process .
any apoptotic process in a t cell ,  a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of t cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell death by apoptotic process .
the actin filament - based process in which cytoplasmic actin filaments slide past one another resulting in contraction of all or part of the cell body .
the regulated release of mucus by the mucosa .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of mucus from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of mucus from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of mucus from a cell or a tissue .
a type of cell death that is morphologically characterized by an increasingly translucent cytoplasm ,  swelling of organelles ,  minor ultrastructural modifications of the nucleus  ( specifically ,  dilatation of the nuclear membrane and condensation of chromatin into small ,  irregular ,  circumscribed patches )  and increased cell volume  ( oncosis )  ,  culminating in the disruption of the plasma membrane and subsequent loss of intracellular contents .
a programmed necrotic cell death process which begins when a cell receives a signal  ( e .g .
a cellular process that results in swelling of the cell body ,  and that is morphologically characteristic of necrotic cell death .
the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a pigment cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an axonemal dynein complex ,  a dynein complex found in eukaryotic cilia and flagella ,  in which the motor domain heads interact with adjacent microtubules to generate a sliding force which is converted to a bending motion .
a renal system process in which water ,  ions ,  glucose and proteins are taken up from the collecting ducts ,  glomerulus and proximal and distal loops of the nephron .
the directed movement of calcium ions  ( ca2 +  )  into ,  out of or within the sarcoplasmic reticulum .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via a stress - activated protein kinase signaling cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the stress - activated protein kinase signaling cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the stress - activated protein kinase signaling cascade .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a lens fiber cell ,  any of the elongated ,  tightly packed cells that make up the bulk of the mature lens in the camera - type eye .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a lens fiber cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into a lens fiber cell .
the process in which the structures of a lens fiber cell are generated and organized .
a cell cycle arrest process that results in arrest during g1 phase ,  whereupon the cell enters a specialized resting state known as g0 or quiescence .
a cell cycle arrest process that results in arrest during g1 phase ,  whereupon the cell enters g0 phase ,  in the context of cell differentiation .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of triglyceride within an organism or cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a hepatocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hepatocyte differentiation .
any process that stops or decreases the rate or extent of hepatocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of hepatocyte differentiation .
an intracellular protein kinase cascade containing at least erk1 or erk2  ( mapks )  ,  a mek  ( a mapkk )  and a map3k .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the erk1 and erk2 cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the erk1 and erk2 cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the erk1 and erk2 cascade .
a transport vesicle that mediates transport from an intracellular compartment to the plasma membrane ,  and fuses with the plasma membrane to release various cargo molecules ,  such as proteins or hormones ,  by exocytosis .
the multiplication or reproduction of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells by cell division ,  resulting in the expansion of their population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation .
any process that stops or decreases the rate or extent of oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heme .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heme .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heme .
the protein complexes that form the electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with a cell membrane ,  usually the plasma membrane  ( in prokaryotes )  or the inner mitochondrial membrane  ( on eukaryotes )  .
a respiratory chain located in the plasma membrane of a cell ;  made up of the protein complexes that form the electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with the plasma membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the adhesion of one leukocyte to one or more other leukocytes via adhesion molecules .
the adhesion of one neutrophil to one or more other neutrophils via adhesion molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
the directed movement of calcium ions into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 20 of histone h4 .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 20 of histone h4 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 20 of histone h4 .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving trna threonylcarbamoyladenosine ,  a modified nucleoside found in some trna molecules .
the adhesion of one platelet to one or more other platelets via adhesion molecules .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a vitamin d receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitamin d receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the vitamin d receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitamin d receptor signaling pathway activity .
catalysis of the transfer of an uridylyl group to an acceptor .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection regeneration ,  the regrowth of neuronal processes such as axons or dendrites following their loss or damage .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron projection regeneration ,  the regrowth of neuronal processes such as axons or dendrites following their loss or damage .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron projection regeneration ,  the regrowth of neuronal processes such as axons or dendrites following their loss or damage .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a mitochondrion are generated and organized .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the mitochondrion .
the attachment of one cell to another cell affecting gastrulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell affecting gastrulation .
a process in which a calcium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein processing ,  any protein maturation process achieved by the cleavage of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
a protein modification process in which one or more groups of a small protein ,  such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin - like protein ,  are covalently attached to or removed from a target protein .
any cellular process that establishes the spatial arrangement of actin filament bundles within the cell .
the regrowth of a sensory epithelium following its loss or destruction .
the regrowth of lost or destroyed mechanosensory epithelia .
differentiation of new mechanoreceptors to replace those lost or destroyed by injury .
the regrowth of a neuromast following its loss or destruction .
differentiation of new neuromast sensory hair cells to replace those lost or destroyed by injury .
the expansion of a leukocyte population by cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte proliferation .
an extracellular region part that consists of a protective layer of mucus secreted by epithelial cells lining tubular organs of the body such as the colon or secreted into fluids such as saliva .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of one or more methyl groups to lysine at position 27 of the histone .
catalysis of the posttranslational transfer of one or more glycine residues to a specific glutamate residue on a target protein .
catalysis of the posttranslational transfer of one or more glycine residues to a specific glutamate residue on a target tubulin molecule ;  acts on alpha or beta tubulin .
catalysis of the posttranslational transfer of one or more glutamate residues to a specific residue on a target protein .
catalysis of the posttranslational transfer of one or more glutamate residues to the gamma - carboxyl group ( s )  of one or more specific glutamate residues on a tubulin molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: protein l - lysine  +  2 - oxoglutarate  +  o2 = protein 5 - hydroxy - l - lysine  +  succinate  +  co2 .
an external encapsulating structure part of the chorion .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a basement membrane ,  a part of the extracellular region that consists of a thin layer of dense material found in various animal tissues interposed between the cells and the adjacent connective tissue .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a caveola .
the directed movement of divalent metal cations ,  any metal ion with a  + 2 electric charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycogen .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within a mitochondrial trna molecule to produce a mitochondrial trna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
the addition a sulfur atom to a nucleotide in a mitochondrial trna molecule .
the process in which a double - stranded rna precursor is processed into short  ( 20 - 30 nt )  fragments .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the production of small rna involved in gene silencing by rna .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an organelle .
an mrna stabilization process in which one or more rna - binding proteins associate with the 3' - untranslated region  ( utr )  of an mrna .
a cytoskeletal structure composed of filamentous protein that forms beneath the membrane of many cells or organelles ,  in the plane of cell or organelle division .
the directed killing of a target cell by a neutrophil .
the directed killing of a symbiont target cell by a neutrophil .
the directed killing of a bacterium by a neutrophil .
the directed killing of a fungal cell by a neutrophil .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neutrophil mediated killing of a target cell ,  the directed killing of a target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neutrophil mediated killing of a symbiont cell ,  the directed killing of a symbiont target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neutrophil mediated killing of a bacterium ,  the directed killing of a bacterium by a neutrophil .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neutrophil mediated killing of a fungal cell ,  the directed killing of a fungal cell by a neutrophil .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a symbiont target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a bacterium by a neutrophil .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a fungal cell by a neutrophil .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a symbiont target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a bacterium by a neutrophil .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a fungal cell by a neutrophil .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the endoplasmic reticulum .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for bone to attain its fully functional state .
the process in which the migration of a dendrite is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of the left / right axis .
the process of removing one or more methyl groups from a molecule .
the process of removing one or more methyl groups from a molecule ,  involving the oxidation  ( i .e .
the process of cell death in a neuron .
the enzymatic addition of a sequence of uridylyl residues at the 3' end of an rna molecule .
a cellular process that results in a change in the spatial configuration of a dna molecule .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell cycle arrest ,  the process in which the cell cycle is halted during one of the normal phases .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell cycle arrest ,  the process in which the cell cycle is halted during one of the normal phases .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell cycle arrest ,  the process in which the cell cycle is halted during one of the normal phases .
any process in which a ribonucleoprotein complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that originates from the spindle and delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  the completion of anaphase until chromosomes are attached to the spindle ,  or mitotic exit and cytokinesis when the spindle does not form .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the accumulation of acetylcholine - gated cation channels in a narrow ,  central region of muscle fibers ,  in apposition to nerve terminals .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the expansion of a hematopoietic stem cell population by cell division .
the directed movement of a ribonucleoprotein complex from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the directed movement of a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains messenger rna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
a process of cell wall organization that results in the restoration of the cell wall following damage .
a cell projection that emerges from the ecm - facing surface of a cell ,  is enriched in actin and associated cytoskeletal proteins ,  and displays localized proteolytic activity toward the substrate .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  the centrosome .
the process in which a neuroblast acquires the specialized structural and functional features of a dopaminergic neuron ,  a neuron that secretes dopamine .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cell wall .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the cell wall ,  the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal and most prokaryotic cells ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the otic vesicle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the otic vesicle are generated and organized .
the movement of a granulocyte in response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of granulocyte chemotaxis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of granulocyte chemotaxis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of granulocyte chemotaxis .
the process of biting and mashing food with the teeth prior to swallowing .
eye ,  head or whole body movements that help to compensate movements of the environment in order to stabilize its image on the retina .
the movement of a mononuclear cell within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of mononuclear cell migration .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mononuclear cell migration .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mononuclear cell migration .
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of a neuron in the olfactory bulb is directed to its target in the brain in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of a commissural neuron is directed to its target in the brain in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the volume enclosed by the membrane of an endocytic vesicle .
the developmental process in which an organism emerges from a surrounding protective structure such as an egg or pupa case .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins to form the myosin - based thick filaments of myofibrils in striated muscle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins to form the actin - based thin filaments of myofibrils in striated muscle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins to form the myosin - based thick filaments of myofibrils in cardiac muscle .
any process in which a protein is transported from one specific location in the extracellular region to another ,  or maintained in a specific extracellular location .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an anatomical structure to attain its fully functional state .
the progression of an ectodermal placode over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of an ectodermal placode are generated and organized .
the progression of the olfactory placode over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the olfactory placode are generated and organized .
the directed movement of organic substances into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the directed movement of nitrogen - containing compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which immunoglobulin heavy chain v ,  d ,  and j gene segments are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the basement membrane .
the formation and maintenance of dna loops that juxtapose the promoter and enhancer regions of rna polymerase ii - transcribed genes and activate transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igd isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igm isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and in its circulating form complexed with j chain in polymeric forms .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igz isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nuclear inner or outer membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a subcompartment of the endoplasmic reticulum consisting of flattened ,  disc - shaped domains known as cisternae .
a process in which a potassium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a protein - dna complex .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a ribonucleoprotein complex .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the process in which the mitotic cell cycle is halted during one of the normal phases  ( g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  m )  .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any apoptotic process in a leukocyte ,  an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
a cell activation process that occurs in thrombocytes and consists of a series of progressive ,  overlapping events including shape change ,  adhesiveness ,  and aggregation ,  which ,  when carried through to completion ,  lead to the formation of a stable hemostatic plug .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to nephric duct formation .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained at the adherens junction .
the cellular dna metabolic process resulting in the formation of dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long unbranched macromolecule formed from one or two strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides ,  the 3' - phosphate group of each constituent deoxyribonucleotide being joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage to the 5' - hydroxyl group of the deoxyribose moiety of the next one .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
determination of the asymmetric location of various parts of the digestive tract with respect to the left and right halves of the organism .
determination of the asymmetric location of the intestine loops with respect to the left and right halves of the organism .
determination of the asymmetric location of the stomach with respect to the left and right halves of the organism .
determination of the asymmetric location of the liver with respect to the left and right halves of the organism .
release of neurotransmitter at the synapse that lasts for just a few milliseconds after action potential invasion .
a dna metabolic process that results in the formation of g - quadruplex dna structures ,  in which groups of four guanines adopt a flat ,  cyclic hoogsteen hydrogen - bonding arrangement known as a guanine tetrad or g - quartet .
the addition of an acetyl group to the lysine 40 residue of alpha - tubulin .
any process that stop ,  prevents or decreases transcription as part of the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases transcription as part of the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
a nitrogen compound metabolic process that contributes to the nitrogen cycle .
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
an supramolecular fiber that consists of an insoluble core of polymerized tropoelastin monomers and a surrounding mantle of microfibrils .
locomotion in a multicellular organism ,  i .e .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the renal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the nephron over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the nephron epithelium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the glomerular epithelium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a glomerulus vasculature from an initial condition to its mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the proximal tubule over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a glomerular visceral epithelial cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the distal tubule over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the proximal convoluted tubule over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the distal convoluted tubule over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the nephron are generated and organized .
the morphogenetic process in which the renal epithelium narrows along one axis and lengthens in a perpendicular axis that contributes to the shaping of a nephron .
coordinated organization of groups of cells in the plane of an epithelium that contributes to the shaping of a nephron .
the regionalization process in which specific areas of cell differentiation are determined along a proximal / distal axis of a nephron .
any developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within an organism to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate into the anatomical structures of the renal system .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the early distal convoluted tubule over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelium in the kidney over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a kidney mesenchyme from an initial condition to its mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a nephron tubule are generated and organized .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of a nephron tubule from unspecified parts .
the progression of a nephron tubule over time ,  from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the tubules arranged along the proximal / distal axis of the nephron acquire their identity .
the process in which the proximal tubule of the kidney nephron acquires its identity .
the process in which the distal tubule of the kidney nephron acquires its identity .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the nephron epithelium are generated and organized .
the multiplication or reproduction of stem cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a stem cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell proliferation .
the developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within the kidney along the anterior / posterior axis to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the glomerulus are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the glomerulus vasculature are generated and organized .
the process that gives rise to a glomerular capillary .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of the population in the kidney .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a glomerular visceral epithelial cell .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the pronephros are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a mesenchymal tissue are generated and organized .
the process in which the developmental fate of a cell becomes restricted such that it will develop into an epithelial cell .
the orderly movement of epithelial cells within a renal tubule that contributes to nephron tubule morphogenesis .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a distal tubule are generated and organized .
the orderly movement of epithelial cells within a renal tubule that contributes to distal tubule morphogenesis .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a proximal tubule are generated and organized .
the orderly movement of epithelial cells within a renal tubule that contributes to proximal tubule morphogenesis .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the cells of the nephron tubule as it progresses from its formation to the mature state .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the mesenchymal cells of the kidney as it progresses from its formation to the mature state .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an epithelial tube .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a nephric duct over time ,  from its initial formation to a mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the nephric duct are generated and organized .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of a nephric duct .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
the regionalization process in which specific areas of cell differentiation are determined along a proximal / distal axis of the pronephros .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesenchymal cell proliferation .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a glomerular epithelial cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a glomerular epithelial cell .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a chloride ion by a volume - sensitive channel .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  (  - cooh )  group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  (  - cooh )  group .
an intracellular signaling process that is induced by the cell cycle regulator phosphoprotein p53 or an equivalent protein .
a series of molecular signals in which an intracellular signal is conveyed to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the wnt signaling pathway through beta - catenin involved in neural crest cell differentiation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the wnt signaling pathway through beta - catenin involved in neural crest cell differentiation .
the directed movement of modified amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the circulatory system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the vascular cord over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
a response to a stimulus that consists of a sequential series of modifications to a set of proteins where the product of one reaction acts catalytically in the following reaction .
a protein activation cascade that contributes to blood coagulation and consists of the cascade of enzymatic reactions initiated by physical damage to the wall of a blood vessel ,  leading to the formation of a formation of a fibrin clot at the site of the injury .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the wnt signaling pathway through beta - catenin involved in neural crest cell differentiation .
the directed movement of an organelle along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
the series of events in which information about a biological process or quality is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a cell cycle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cell cycle checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about the formation and integrity of cytokinetic structures ,  such as the contractile ring ,  is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a cytokinesis checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cytokinesis checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about dna integrity is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic dna integrity checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a dna integrity checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about a biological process or quality is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a meiotic cell cycle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a meiotic cell cycle checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about a biological process or quality is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about the assembly ,  orientation or integrity of the spindle is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a spindle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a spindle checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about damage to dna is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a dna damage checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a dna damage checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about damage to dna is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a g2 / m transition dna damage checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a g2 / m transition dna damage checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about damage to dna is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic cell cycle g1 / s transition dna damage checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle g1 / s transition dna damage checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about damage to dna is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic g2 / m transition dna damage checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic g2 / m transition dna damage checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about whether dna replication is complete is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a dna replication checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a dna replication checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about whether dna replication is complete is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a meiotic dna replication checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a meiotic dna replication checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about whether dna replication is complete is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic dna replication checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic dna replication checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about cell size is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic cell cycle g1 / s transition size control checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cell size control checkpoint during the g1 / s transition of mitosis .
the series of events in which information about cell size is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a g2 / m transition size control checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cell size control checkpoint during the g2 / m transition of mitosis .
the series of events in which information about whether spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a meiotic spindle assembly checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a meiotic spindle assembly checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about cell size is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a cell size control checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cell size control checkpoint during mitosis .
the series of events in which information about whether the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle ,  is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic cell cycle spindle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle spindle checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about whether the spindle is correctly assembled ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle ,  is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about spindle assembly is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a spindle assembly checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a spindle assembly checkpoint .
the process ,  occurring during the embryonic phase ,  whose specific outcome is the progression of the skeletal joints over time ,  from formation to mature structure .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of trivalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations within an organism or cell .
the directed movement of inorganic cations with a valency of two into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein = adp  +  a phosphoprotein .
the reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of the seminiferous tubule over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a fibroblast resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
the process in which a developing blood vessel forms an endothelial lumen through which blood will flow .
tolerance induction directed at lipopolysaccharide antigens .
the multiplication or reproduction of hepatocytes ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
the multiplication or reproduction of epithelial cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population that contributes to the shaping of the liver .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the liver are generated and organized .
any apoptotic process in an endothelial cell .
the receptor clustering process in which neurotransmitter - gated ion channels are localized to distinct domains in the cell membrane .
the receptor clustering process in which glycine receptors are localized to distinct domains in the cell membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving diatomic oxygen  ( o2 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a reactive oxygen species ,  any molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location a specific location on or in an organelle ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location in a mitochondrion ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location in a membrane .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location in the plasma membrane .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location in a peroxisome .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location in a peroxisome ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location in a vacuole .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location in a vacuole ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
the migration of a neutrophil from the blood vessels into the surrounding tissue .
the movement of a lymphocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
the movement of a t cell within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
the movement of a thymocyte through distinct intrathymic niches  ( e .g .
a spindle that forms as part of mitosis .
a spindle that forms as part of meiosis .
a cellular protein localization process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location within the microtubule cytoskeleton .
the process in which a symbiont structure that serves to infect the host is formed on its host organism .
the process in which an organized mass of hyphae is formed on or near the host organism ,  and numerous infective hyphae develop from the hyphae mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiont infection cushion formation on or near its host organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiont infection cushion formation on or near its host organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiont infection cushion formation on or near its host organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent to which it enters into the host organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any endocytosis that is involved in the uptake of a virus into a host cell .
the posttranscriptional addition of methyl groups to specific residues in an mrna molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the removal of a methyl group from one or more nucleotides within an dna molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular response to stress .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of amino acid within an organism or cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
the covalent alteration within the mitochondrion of one or more nucleotides within an mrna to produce an mrna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a lytic vacuole .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of the extracellular matrix .
an action potential that occurs in a cardiac muscle cell .
an action potential that occurs in a cardiac muscle cell and is involved in its contraction .
the actin filament - based process in which cytoplasmic actin filaments slide past one another resulting in contraction of a cardiac muscle cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell contraction .
an action potential that occurs in a ventricular cardiac muscle cell .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a sodium ion by a voltage - gated channel through the plasma membrane of a cardiac muscle cell contributing to the depolarization phase of an action potential .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ion by a voltage - gated channel across the plasma membrane of a cardiac muscle cell that contributes to the depolarization phase of an action potential .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a potassium ion by a voltage - gated channel through the plasma membrane of a cardiac muscle cell contributing to the repolarization phase of an action potential .
the process in which ions are transported across a membrane such that the membrane potential changes in the repolarizing direction ,  toward the steady state potential .
the process in which membrane potential changes in the depolarizing direction from the negative resting potential towards the positive membrane potential that will be the peak of the action potential .
the process in which ions are transported across a membrane such that the membrane potential changes in the direction from the positive membrane potential at the peak of the action potential towards the negative resting potential .
the process in which cardiac muscle cell membrane potential changes in the depolarizing direction from the negative resting potential towards the positive membrane potential that will be the peak of the action potential .
the process in which ions are transported across a membrane such that the cardiac muscle cell plasma membrane potential changes in the direction from the positive membrane potential at the peak of the action potential towards the negative resting potential .
an action potential that occurs in an atrial cardiac muscle cell .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another and contributes to the heart process that regulates cardiac muscle contraction ;  beginning with the generation of an action potential in the sinoatrial node and ending with regulation of contraction of the myocardium .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from an atrial cardiomyocyte to an av node cell .
the process that mediates signaling interactions between one cell and another cell by transfer of current between their adjacent cytoplasms via intercellular protein channels and contributes to the process of cardiac conduction .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings that contributes to the process of cardiac conduction .
the process that mediates interactions between an atrial cardiomyocyte and its surroundings that contributes to the process of the atrial cardiomyocyte communicating with an av node cell in cardiac conduction .
a wide pore channel activity that enables a direct cytoplasmic connection from one cardiomyocyte to an adjacent cardiomyocyte .
an g protein - coupled receptor signaling pathway which contributes to a circulatory system process carried out by the heart .
the formation of anterior end of the flat ,  thickened layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil chemotaxis .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil chemotaxis .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil chemotaxis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of monocyte chemotaxis .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of monocyte chemotaxis .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of monocyte chemotaxis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroid hormones , compounds with a 1 ,  2 ,  cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus that act as hormones .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroid hormones , compounds with a 1 ,  2 ,  cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus that act as hormones .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroid hormones , compounds with a 1 ,  2 ,  cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus that act as hormones .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which a multicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that modulates the size of an anatomical structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of ribosome biogenesis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of ribosome biogenesis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of ribosome biogenesis .
a process in which the extent of muscle contraction is reduced .
a process in which the extent of skeletal muscle tissue contraction is reduced .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands resulting in an increase in the rate or frequency of a mapkkk cascade .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway that regulates heart induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the wnt signaling pathway through beta - catenin ,  the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of extracellular matrix disassembly .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transmembrane receptor serine / threonine kinase binding to its physiological ligand .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transmembrane receptor serine / threonine kinase binding to its physiological ligand .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transmembrane receptor serine / threonine kinase binding to its physiological ligand .
a receptor - mediated endocytosis process involved in intracellular cholesterol transport .
the attachment of the pre - synaptic cell to the post - synaptic cell via adhesion molecules that contributes to synapse maturation .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a protein complex that contributes to synapse maturation .
any process that increases the extent of synaptic maturation as a result of the communication from a pre - synaptic cell to a post - synaptic cell across a synapse .
any process that modulates the extent of synapse maturation ,  the process that organizes a synapse so that it attains its fully functional state .
any process that increases the extent of synapse maturation ,  the process that organizes a synapse so that it attains its fully functional state .
the process in which the population of cells that make up a tissue undergo directed movement .
the process in which the population of cells that make up an epithelium undergo directed movement .
the process in which the population of cells that make up a mesendoderm undergo directed movement .
the orderly movement of epithelial cells from one site to another that contributes to the migration of mesendodermal tissue .
any cell - cell adhesion process that modulates the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
any process in which mitochondrial dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of mitochondrial fission .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mitochondrial fission .
the directed movement of mitochondria to the correct region of the cell that contributes to the process of mitochondrial fission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of mitochondria to the correct region of the cell that contributes to the process of mitochondrial fission .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the separation of a single continuous membrane into two membranes .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the separation of a single continuous mitochondrial membrane into two membranes and contributes to mitochondrial fission .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location in a membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of sphingolipid biosynthesis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of sphingolipid biosynthesis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of sphingolipid biosynthesis .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization of an epithelial cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of spindle assembly .
the process in which the structures of a chondrocyte are generated and organized .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins that contributes to chromosomal pairing and precedes synapsis .
the joining of two lipid bilayers to form a single organelle membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the establishment of planar polarity ,  the coordinated organization of groups of cells in a tissue ,  such that they all orient to similar coordinates .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins and contributes to the establishment of planar polarity .
coordinated organization of groups of cells in the plane of an epithelium that contributes to the closure of the neural tube .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the establishment of planar polarity involved in neural tube closure ,  the coordinated organization of groups of cells in the plane of an epithelium that contributes to the closure of the neural tube .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors signal via downstream effectors that modulates the establishment of planar polarity contributing to neural tube closure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of kidney development .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of kidney development .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of kidney development .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of glomerulus development ,  the progression of the glomerulus over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of glomerulus development ,  the progression of the glomerulus over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of glomerulus development ,  the progression of the glomerulus over time from its initial formation until its mature state .
the formation and maintenance of dna loops that juxtapose sequentially separated regions of rna polymerase ii - transcribed genes .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the establishment of the blood - brain barrier ,  a selectively permeable structural and functional barrier that exists between the capillaries and the brain .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the establishment of the blood - brain barrier ,  a selectively permeable structural and functional barrier that exists between the capillaries and the brain .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the establishment of the blood - brain barrier ,  a selectively permeable structural and functional barrier that exists between the capillaries and the brain .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 - phosphate = adp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 , 5 - bisphosphate .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 - phosphate = adp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 , 5 - bisphosphate .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 - phosphate = adp  +  1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 , 5 - bisphosphate .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a simple or complex lipid .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a simple or complex lipid .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the spindle checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the spindle checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the spindle checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of metaphase plate congression ,  the alignment of chromosomes at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the spindle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of histone h4 acetylation ,  the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of histone h4 acetylation ,  the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of histone h4 acetylation ,  the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a retinoic acid receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands that contributes to somitogenesis .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands that contributes to somitogenesis .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell and ending with a change in cell state that contributes to somitogenesis .
the developmental growth that results in the elongation of the rostral - caudal axis that contributes to somitogenesis .
the morphogenetic process in which a presomitic mesoderm narrows along the left - right axis and lengthens in the rostral - caudal axis contributing to somitogenesis .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that contributes to somitogenic axis elongation .
the orderly movement of a presomitic mesoderm cell that contributes to somitogenic axis elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that contributes to somitogenic axis elongation .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules that contributes to the establishment of planar cell polarity .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location in a cell that contributes to the establishment of planar polarity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a muscle system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in a muscle system .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mitochondrial fission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of retinal ganglion cell axon guidance ,  the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of a retinal ganglion cell  ( rgc )  is directed to its target in the brain in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of retinal ganglion cell axon guidance ,  the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of a retinal ganglion cell  ( rgc )  is directed to its target in the brain in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the wnt signaling pathway through beta - catenin ,  the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into a cell or organelle .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into a cell or organelle .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into a cell or organelle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription of target genes that are transcribed as part of the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of neural crest formation .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of neural crest formation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of neural crest formation .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids .
the nucleic acid metabolic process in which the phosphodiester bonds between nucleotides are cleaved by hydrolysis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle that contributes to the process of meiosis .
mitotic bipolar spindle assembly begins with spindle microtubule nucleation from the separated spindle pole body ,  includes spindle elongation during prometaphase ,  and is complete when all kinetochores are stably attached the spindle ,  and the spindle assembly checkpoint is satisfied .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of directing proteins towards a membrane ,  usually using signals contained within the protein .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of directing proteins towards a membrane ,  usually using signals contained within the protein .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of directing proteins towards a membrane ,  usually using signals contained within the protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of superoxide metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving superoxide ,  the superoxide anion o2 -   ( superoxide free radical )  ,  or any compound containing this species .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the phosphorylation of adp to atp that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of dna - dependent dna replication ,  the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized ,  using parental dna as a template for the dna - dependent dna polymerases that synthesize the new strands .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of platelet aggregation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of platelet aggregation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell aging .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell aging .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell aging .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within an mrna molecule to produce an mrna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within an mrna molecule to produce an mrna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within an mrna molecule to produce an mrna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of heart induction .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the arrangement of constituent parts of a phagosome within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the arrangement of constituent parts of a phagosome within a cell and contributes to apoptotic cell clearance .
the process in which a phagosome ,  a vesicle formed by phagocytosis ,  fuses with a lysosome as a part of apoptotic cell clearance .
any process that prevents the establishment or decreases the extent of the excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  which is a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
a cell aging process stimulated in response to cellular stress ,  whereby normal cells lose the ability to divide through irreversible cell cycle arrest .
a cellular senescence process associated with the dismantling of a cell as a response to oncogenic stress ,  such as the activation of the ras oncogenic family .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the biosynthesis of deoxyribose phosphate ,  the phosphorylated sugar 2 - deoxy - erythro - pentose .
any process that inhibits or decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription of target genes that are transcribed as part of the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
the series of events in which an endogenous biotic stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glutamate within an organism or cell .
the orderly movement of a mesenchymal cell from one site to another ,  often during the development of a multicellular organism .
a transition where an endocardial cushion cell loses apical / basolateral polarity ,  severs intercellular adhesive junctions ,  degrades basement membrane components and becomes a migratory mesenchymal cell .
the rna metabolic process in which the phosphodiester bonds between ribonucleotides are cleaved by hydrolysis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the hydrolysis of internal 3' , 5' - phosphodiester bonds in one or two strands of ribonucleotides .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the hydrolysis of terminal 3' , 5' - phosphodiester bonds in one or two strands of ribonucleotides .
the expansion of one cell sheet over other cells or yolk .
the expansion of one cell sheet over other cells involved in wound healing .
the orderly movement of a podocyte from one site to another ,  often during the development of a multicellular organism or multicellular structure .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in dynamic structural changes to the arrangement of actin filaments .
protein complex that carries out the reaction: atp  +  h2o  +  cation ( out )  = adp  +  phosphate  +  cation ( in )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the passage or uptake of molecules by a membrane .
the formation and maintenance of dna loops that juxtapose separated regions on the same dsdna molecule .
synthesis of dna that is a part of the process of duplicating one or more molecules of dna .
the immediate defensive reaction by vertebrate tissue to injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
morphogenesis of a sensory organ .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal ,  non - reducing alpha - linked alpha - d - glucose residue with release of alpha - d - glucose .
the process in which nucleated precursor cells lose their nucleus .
steps involved in processing precursor rnas arising from transcription of operons in the mitochondrial genome into mature mrnas .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an mrna molecule that derives from the mitochondrial genome .
the process in which a pre - trna molecule is converted to a mature trna ,  ready for addition of an aminoacyl group ,   in the mitochondrion .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the neurological system process driven by motile cilia on ependymal cells of the brain by which cerebrospinal fluid circulates from the sites of secretion to the sites of absorption .
a protein complex containing at least one glycosylated protein ,  may be held together by both covalent and noncovalent bonds .
a region of a chromosome at which dna damage has occurred .
the volume enclosed by the membrane of a phagocytic vesicle .
all of the contents of a cilium ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the cilium .
a renal system process in which proteins are taken up from the collecting ducts ,  glomerulus and proximal and distal loops of the nephron .
a renal system process in which albumin is taken up from the collecting ducts ,  glomerulus and proximal and distal loops of the nephron .
a specialized area of membrane on either the presynaptic or the postsynaptic side of a synapse ,  the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell .
the process aimed at the progression of a vascular smooth muscle cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a presynaptic membrane ,  including any proteins associated with the membrane ,  but excluding other cellular components .
the process that results in grouping synaptic vesicles in presynaptic structures .
the process in which any suture between cranial and / or facial bones is generated and organized .
the process in which the frontonasal suture ,  between frontal and nasal bones ,  is generated and organized .
the process involved in the specification of identity of a blood vessel endothelial cell .
the process involved in the specification of identity of an endothelial tip cell .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a presynaptic membrane ,  including any proteins associated with the membrane ,  but excluding other cellular components .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a postsynaptic density ,  a region that lies adjacent to the cytoplasmic face of the postsynaptic membrane at excitatory synapse .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a postsynaptic density ,  a region that lies adjacent to the cytoplasmic face of the postsynaptic membrane at excitatory synapse .
the glutamate receptor clustering process in which alpha - amino - 3 - hydroxy - 5 - methyl - 4 - isoxazole propionate  ( ampa )  receptors are localized to distinct domains in the cell membrane .
the receptor clustering process involved in assembly of the presynaptic membrane in which neurexins are localized to distinct domains in the cell membrane .
the clustering process in which gephyrin molecules are localized to distinct domains in the postsynaptic density as part of postsynaptic density assembly .
any process in by an organism or tissue maintains a population of neuronal stem cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of inhibitory postsynaptic potential  ( ipsp )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile ,  and contributing to the apoptotic process .
the process in which a neuroblast acquires the specialized structural and functional features of a gabaergic neuron .
the collection of sensory neuron axons into a bundle of rods ,  known as a fascicle .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic cyclic compound ,  any molecular entity that contains carbon arranged in a cyclic molecular structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the ammonium ion .
the multiplication or reproduction of lens epithelial cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna translation with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
the process whose specific outcome is the formation of dentin ,  the mineralized tissue that constitutes the major bulk of teeth .
a vesicle containing parts of a dying cell .
a series of molecular signals which triggers the apoptotic death of a cell .
a series of molecular signals in which an intracellular signal is conveyed to trigger the apoptotic death of a cell .
a stage of the apoptotic process that starts with the controlled breakdown of the cell through the action of effector caspases or other effector molecules  ( e .g .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of three methyl groups to lysine at position 36 of the histone .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile ,  and contributing to the apoptotic signaling pathway .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile ,  and contributing to the execution phase of apoptosis .
a renal system process in which fluid circulating through the body is filtered through a barrier system .
the enzymatic addition of a sequence of 40 - 60 adenylyl residues at the 3' end of a eukaryotic mitochondrial mrna primary transcript .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ammonium .
any apoptotic process in a hepatocyte ,  the main structural component of the liver .
any process that initiates the activity of an inactive cysteine - type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic signaling pathway .
a necrotic cell death process that results from the activation of endogenous cellular processes ,  such as signaling involving death domain receptors or toll - like receptors .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the orderly movement of melanocytes from one site to another ,  often during the development of a multicellular organism .
the multiplication or reproduction of melanocytes ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
removal of pi3p and atg8 / lc3 after the closure of the phagophore and before the fusion with the endosome / lysosome  ( e .g .
the covalent attachment of a prenyl group to a molecule ;  geranyl ,  farnesyl ,  or geranylgeranyl groups may be added .
the perinucleolar compartment  ( pnc )  is a subnuclear structure associated with ,  but structurally distinct from ,  the nucleolus .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a carbohydrate derivative .
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of a sensory neuron is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of a spinal sensory neuron is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of an interneuron is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of a spinal cord interneuron is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of a dorsal spinal cord interneuron is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process in which the migration of an axon growth cone of a dorsal spinal cord interneuron is directed to a specific target site in the anterior direction along the anterior - posterior body axis in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
stack of disc membranes located inside a photoreceptor outer segment ,  and containing densely packed molecules of photoreceptor proteins that traverse the lipid bilayer .
a prolongation or process extending from a glial cell .
the acidification of the synaptic vesicle lumen via transport of protons into the vesicle .
a series of molecular signals mediated by hypoxia - inducible factor  ( hif1 )  in response to lowered oxygen levels  ( hypoxia )  .
intracellular mass of paired ,  helically wound protein filaments  ( also called phf )  lying in the cytoplasm of neuronal cell bodies and neuritic cell processes .
the regrowth of lost or destroyed liver .
an intermediate filament composed of glial fibrillary acidic protein  ( gfap )  and found in astrocytes .
an arrangement of closely apposed microtubules running parallel to each other .
either of the ends of a mitotic spindle ,  a spindle that forms as part of mitosis ,  where spindle microtubules are organized ;  usually contains a microtubule organizing center and accessory molecules ,  spindle microtubules and astral microtubules .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a supramolecular fiber ,  a polymer consisting of an indefinite number of protein or protein complex subunits that have polymerised to form a fiber - shaped structure .
the entire complement of dendrites for a neuron ,  consisting of each primary dendrite and all its branches .
a prolongation or process extending from the soma of an astrocyte and wrapping around neurons .
terminal process of astrocyte abutting non - neuronal surfaces in the brain .
terminal process of astrocyte that extends to the surface of the central nervous system .
type of synapse characterized by an electron - dense ribbon ,  lamella  ( bar )  or spherical body in the presynaptic process cytoplasm .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of an amino acid residue in a protein ,  usually according to the reaction: a protein  +  atp = a phosphoprotein  +  adp .
the orderly movement of a motor neuron from one site to another .
any of the two layers of lipid molecules that constitute a membrane .
any process in which a synaptic vesicle or vesicles are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
long distance growth of a single dendrite involved in cellular development .
the process in which the migration of a neuron projection is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
a blood vessel lumenization process that occurs by blood vessel endothelial cells delaminating and aligning along the inner surface of an existing luminal space ,  extending the open ended lumen ,  and joining to other blood vessels to form a complete blood vessel .
the process of negative regulation of cell adhesion that results in blood vessel endothelial cells splitting off from an existing endothelial sheet .
any endothelial tube morphogenesis process by which the tube is increased in length .
a cardiac myofibril is a myofibril specific to cardiac muscle cells .
a bipolar filament composed of myosin ii molecules .
a parallel bundle of actin filaments at the core of a microvillus .
an actin filament bundle in which the filaments are tightly packed  ( approximately 10 - 20 nm apart )  and oriented with the same polarity .
a plasma membrane that is part of a sperm cell .
a ribonucleoprotein complex involved in formation of the spliceosome and composed of one or more snrna and multiple protein components .
the movement of a myeloid leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
the movement of a granulocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
the orderly movement of a lymphoid lineage cell from one site to another .
the movement of a lymphoid lineage cell  ( also called a lymphoid lineage restricted progenitor cell )  into the thymus .
the process in which the thymus epithelium is generated and organized .
a nine - bladed ,  propeller - like protein complex that links the distal end of the basal body and the cilium to the plasma membrane .
part of the axoneme consisting of the inner two microtubule doublets of the 9 + 2 axoneme occurring in most motile cilia .
part of the cilium where the axoneme ends .
the mid part of a cilium between the ciliary base and ciliary tip that extends into the extracellular space .
part of an axoneme consisting in a doublet microtubule .
area of the cilium  ( also called flagellum )  where the basal body and the axoneme are anchored to the plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription by chromatin organization .
a process in which a calcium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other into the cytosol by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the reaction: protein - s - s - glutathione  +  glutathione - sh = protein - sh  +  glutathione - s - s - glutathione .
merging of two or more vacuoles ,  or of vacuoles and vesicles within a cell to form a single larger vacuole .
catalysis of the reaction: rch2nhr'  +  h2o  +  o2 = rcho  +  r'nh2  +  h2o2 .
the component of the autophagosome membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the component of the autophagosome membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the autophagosome membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
a complete microtubule with 13 protofilaments that fuses with an incomplete microtubule called b tubule  ( containing 10 protofilaments only )  to form an axonemal outer doublet .
an incomplete microtubule containing 10 protofilaments that fuses with a complete microtubule called a tubule  ( containing 13 protofilaments )  to form an axonemal outer doublet .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of nucleic acid  ( dna or rna )  .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of two methyl groups to lysine at position 36 of the histone .
an instance of double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining that is independent of factors important for v ( d ) j recombination  ( as opposed to classical nonhomologous end joining )  .
the neurotransmitter - gated ion channel clustering process in which glutamate receptors are localized to distinct domains in the cell membrane .
an intracellular signal transduction process in which stat proteins  ( signal transducers and activators of transcription )  convey a signal to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
any vesicle that is part of the intracellular region .
the series of events leading to growth of connective tissue when loss of tissues that are incapable of regeneration occurs ,  or when fibrinous exudate cannot be adequately cleared .
the docking of a cytosolic centriole / basal body to the plasma membrane via the ciliary transition fibers .
the process in which vesicles formed at the trans - golgi network are directed to the plasma membrane surrounding the base of the cilium ,  including the ciliary pocket ,  mediated by molecules at the vesicle membrane and target membrane surfaces .
the regrowth of neural tissue following its loss or destruction .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a sperm cell .
a motile cilium where the axoneme has a ring of nine outer microtubule doublets plus two central microtubules  ( and is therefore called a 9 + 2 axoneme )  .
a cilium which may have a variable array of axonemal microtubules but does not contain molecular motors .
a non - motile cilium where the axoneme has a ring of nine outer microtubule doublets but no central microtubules  ( and is therefore called a 9 + 0 axoneme )  .
a non - motile cilium where the axoneme has a ring of nine outer microtubule doublets plus two central microtubules  ( and is therefore called a 9 + 2 axoneme )  .
a specialised 9 + 0 non - motile cilium found in photoreceptor cells .
any process that modulates the diameter of blood vessels .
any process that increases the diameter of blood vessels .
any process that decreases the diameter of blood vessels .
the generation of hematopoietic stem cells from hemogenic endothelial cells by a process that includes tight - junction dissolution and loss of cell polarity followed by delamination from the endothelium .
the junction between the axon of a motor neuron and a muscle fiber .
a neuromuscular junction in which the target muscle cell is a skeletal muscle fiber .
a neuromuscular junction in which the target muscle cell is a myotube .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a neuromuscular junction that targets a skeletal muscle fiber .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of three methyl groups to lysine at position 27 of the histone .
a transmembrane protein complex that functions in atpase dependent active transport across a membrane .
a cellular process that results in the assembly of one or more centrioles .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of another organism that act to protect the cell or organism from damage caused by that organism .
a cellular component consisting of one leaflet of a membrane bilayer and any proteins embedded or anchored in it or attached to its surface .
the side of a membrane that faces the cytoplasm .
the component of the mitochondrial membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the lipid bilayer that forms the outer - most layer of an organelle .
a membrane that is a part of a larger membrane .
a membrane that is a  ( regional )  part of the plasma membrane .
a secretory granule that contains mucin .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on a cell surface to an adhesion molecule on another cell surface ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to the external substrate or to another cell .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to another cell .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to the extracellular matrix .
any protein complex that is capable of carrying out some part of the process of cell adhesion to the cell matrix or to another cell .
any protein complex that is capable of carrying out some part of the process of cell - matrix adhesion .
any laminin protein binding that occurs as part of cell - matrix adhesion .
a collagen trimer that forms networks .
a supramolecular assembly of fibrillar collagen complexes in the form of a long fiber  ( fibril )  with transverse striations  ( bands )  .
a complex of collagen trimers such as a fibril or collagen network .
a supramolecular complex that consists of collagen triple helices associated to form a network .
a supramolecular assembly of collagen trimers with a 'beads on a string' - like structure .
any collagen timer that is part of a basement membrane .
the process in which a cation is transported across a membrane .
the process in which an anion is transported across a membrane .
the directed movement of some substance from outside of a cell into a cell .
the directed movement of inorganic cations from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the process in which an inorganic ion is transported across a membrane .
the process in which an inorganic anion is transported across a membrane .
a process in which an inorganic cation is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a non - membrane bound ,  electron dense structure associated that extends perpendicular to the presynaptic membrane in ribbon synapses .
a ribbon synpase of an auditory hair cell of the cochlear .
a ribbon synapse between a retinal photoreceptor cell  ( rod or cone )  and a retinal bipolar cell .
any subdivision of a chromosome along its length .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the synaptic vesicle cycle .
any ryanodine - sensitive calcium - release channel activity that is involved in regulation of postsynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentration .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a postsynaptic specialization ,  a region that lies adjacent to the cytoplasmic face of the postsynaptic membrane .
the directed movement of sodium ions from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
division of a stem cell during which it retains its identity and buds off a daughter cell with a new identity .
a myofibril of a skeletal muscle fiber .
any process by which the numbers of cells of a particular type or in a tissue are maintained .
the directed movement of some substance from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules that are at least partially embedded in the plasma membrane .
the clustering together and adhesion of initially separate cells to form an aggregate .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cerebellar neuron over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a bone cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the component of the plasma membrane consisting of the gene products that penetrate only the cytoplasmic side of the membrane .
any process that reduces or removes the toxicity of a toxic substance .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the meiotic cell cycle is divided .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the mitotic cell cycle is divided .
a meiotic cell cycle phase prior to a during which some part of meiosis i nuclear division or the proceeding cytokinesis occurs .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of inorganic ions within an organism or cell .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skin epidermis over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the transcription of non  ( protein )  coding rna from a dna template .
a compartment that consists of a lumen and an enclosing membrane ,  and is part of the golgi apparatus .
the part of a synapse that is part of the presynaptic cell .
the part of a synapse that is part of the post - synaptic cell .
any protein complex that is part of a membrane .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane .
a protein complex that is part of a mitochondrion .
any protein complex that is part of the outer mitochondrial membrane .
any protein complex that is part of the inner mitochondrial membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by the renal system .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane and which functions as a signaling receptor .
any protein complex that is part of a respiratory chain .
any lipid bilayer that completely encloses some structure ,  and all the proteins embedded in it or attached to it .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of nuclear chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the low level of synaptic transmission that occurs via spontaneous neurotransmitter release into the synaptic cleft in the absence of a presynaptic action potential .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  .
a process that leads to a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell ,  induced by the spontaneous release of a single vesicle of an excitatory neurotransmitter into the synapse .
a distinct region of the endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of inhibitory postsynaptic potential  ( ipsp )  .
a specialized region below the presynaptic membrane ,  characterized by electron - dense material ,  a specialized cytoskeletal matrix and accumulated  ( associated )  synaptic vesicles .
the portion of the cytoskeleton that lies within a dendritic spine .
a recycling endosome of the postsynapse .
the membrane component of the postsynaptic density .
the directed movement of a protein along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
an early endosome of the postsynapse .
an endosomal compartment that is part of the post - synapse .
a cell projection of a podocyte  ( glomerular visceral epithelial cell )  forming a foot - like structure projecting from a podocyte primary projection ,  that wraps around capillaries of a renal glomerulus .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a lytic vacuole and separating its contents from the cytoplasm of the cell .
any process in which lipids are taken up from the contents of the intestine .
a membrane region with a lipid composition that is distinct from that of the membrane regions that surround it .
a cell projection supported by an assembly of actin filaments ,  and which lacks microtubules .
a bundle of cross - linked actin filaments that is part of an actin - based cell protrusion ,  in which filaments are oriented such that the plus  ( barbed )  ends are at the tip of the protrusion ,  capped by a tip complex which stabilizes the filaments .
a bundle of hundreds of cross - linked actin filaments  ( an actin cable )  ,  that is the supporting structure of a stereocilium .
a parallel bundle of actin filaments that is part of filopodium .
a cell part consisting of multiple ,  closely packed actin - based cell projections .
the increase in size or mass of a bone that contributes to the shaping of that bone .
any process carried out at the cellular level that reduces or removes the toxicity superoxide radicals or hydrogen peroxide .
the actin cytoskeleton that is part of a postsynapse .
a series of sequential ,  propagated action potentials occurring in a single cell .
the directed movement of substances to the plasma membrane in transport vesicles that fuse with the plasma membrane by exocytosis .
any protein complex that is capable of functioning as a neurotransmitter receptor .
the component of the presynaptic membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the component of the presynaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the postsynaptic membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the component of the presynaptic active zone membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
the component of the postsynaptic specialization membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination in a cardiac muscle cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of membrane depolarization during an action potential .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of membrane repolarization during an action potential .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination in a neuron .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination in a cardiac muscle cell contributing to the regulation of its contraction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination in an atrial cardiac muscle cell contributing to the regulation of its contraction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination in a ventricular cardiac muscle cell contributing to the regulation of its contraction .
the process in which atrial cardiac muscle cell membrane potential changes in the depolarizing direction from the negative resting potential towards the positive membrane potential that will be the peak of the action potential .
the process in which ventricular cardiac muscle cell membrane potential changes in the depolarizing direction from the negative resting potential towards the positive membrane potential that will be the peak of the action potential .
the process in which ions are transported across a membrane such that the atrial cardiomyocyte membrane potential changes in the direction from the positive membrane potential at the peak of the action potential towards the negative resting potential .
the process in which ions are transported across a membrane such that the ventricular cardiomyocyte membrane potential changes in the direction from the positive membrane potential at the peak of the action potential towards the negative resting potential .
cell - cell signaling from pre to post - synapse ,  across the synaptic cleft .
a cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane - bounded vesicles between endosomal compartments ,  e .g ,  between early endosome and sorting endosome .
the directed movement of organelles or molecules along microtubules in axons .
the component of the postsynaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the actin cytoskeleton that is part of a dendritic spine .
the component of the presynaptic active zone membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the postsynaptic specialization membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the directed movement of mitochondria along microtubules in axons away from the cell body and towards the presynapse .
the directed movement of mitochondria along microtubules in axons towards the cell body and away from the presynapse .
neurotransmitter receptor activity occuring in the postsynaptic membrane during synaptic transmission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurotransmitter receptor activity involved in synaptic transmission .
synaptic transmission that results in an excitatory postsynaptic potential .
synaptic transmission that results in an inhibitory postsynaptic potential .
a synapse that uses glutamate as a neurotransmitter .
an electron dense specialization of the presynaptic active zone cytoskeleton .
a synapse that uses acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter .
a synapse that uses gaba as a neurotransmitter .
a synapse in which pre and post - synaptic cells are neurons .
a series of molecular signals initiated by glutamate binding to an ampa - selective glutamate receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by the movement of ions through a channel in the receptor complex .
any vesicle - mediated transport that occurs in a synapse .
any signal transduction pathway involving calmodulin dependent kinase activity .
an infolding of the plasma membrane .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a presynapse .
the component of the postsynaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the component of the presynaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the component of the presynaptic active zone membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the component of the postsynaptic specialization membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the component of the postsynaptic density membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a postsynapse .
a cellular component that consists of an indeterminate number of proteins or macromolecular complexes ,  organized into a regular ,  higher - order structure such as a polymer ,  sheet ,  network or a fiber .
a polymeric supramolecular structure .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a postsynaptic specialization ,  a structure that lies adjacent to the cytoplasmic face of the postsynaptic membrane .
a proteinaceous scaffold found between homologous chromosomes during meiosis .
a network of proteins adjacent to the postsynaptic membrane .
a network of proteins adjacent to the postsynaptic membrane forming an electron dense disc .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an inorganic cation by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an inorganic anion by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
the movement of a cellular component as a result of microtubule polymerization .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of proteins .
the regulated release of dopamine from the somatodendritic compartment  ( cell body or dendrites )  of a neuron .
the regulated release of dopamine from an axon .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when atp has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts on the intracellular side of the plasma membrane .
the actin cytoskeleton that is part of a presynapse .
the component of the postsynaptic density membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the postsynaptic density membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle docking .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of postsynaptic specialization assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a postsynaptic specialization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of postsynaptic density assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a postsynaptic density .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transport or maintenance of location of a postsynaptic recycling endosome within the postsynapse .
the intermediate filament cytoskeleton that is part of a postsynapse .
any process ,  acting in the postsynapse that results in modulation of chemical synaptic transmission .
any process ,  acting in the presynapse that results in modulation of chemical synaptic transmission .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a presynapse .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a postsynapse .
any process that modulates the physical form of a presynapse .
any process that modulates the physical form of a postsynapse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of trans - synaptic signaling .
the intermediate filament cytoskeleton that is part of a presynapse .
the component of the synaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the synaptic membrane consisting of gene products and protein complexes that are loosely bound to one of its surfaces ,  but not integrated into the hydrophobic region .
a membrane microdomain that forms a necklace around the bulb  ( crater )  of a caveola .
the region of a caveola that extends into the cytoplasm ,  excluding the neck  ( rim )  .
fusion of the membrane of a vesicle with the plasma membrane ,  thereby releasing its contents into the extracellular space .
a cytoplasmic ,  membrane bound vesicle that is capable of fusing to the plasma membrane to release its contents into the extracellular space .
a biological process in which synaptic vesicles are loaded with neurotransmitters ,  move to the active zone ,  exocytose and are then recycled via endocytosis ,  ultimately leading to reloading with neurotransmitters .
any process that regulates the concentration of calcium in the presynaptic cytosol .
regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentrations via the directed movement of calcium ions across the plasma - membrane into the cytosol via the action of a voltage - gated calcium ion channel .
a polymer consisting of an indefinite number of protein or protein complex subunits that have polymerised to form a fiber - shaped structure .
a component of the cytoskeleton consisting of a homo or heteropolymeric fiber constructed from an indeterminate number of protein subunits .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytosol of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytosol .
the region of the cytosol consisting of all cytosol that is part of the presynapse .
the region of the cytosol consisting of all cytosol that is part of the postsynapse .
neurotransmitter receptor activity occurring in the postsynaptic membrane that is involved in regulating postsynaptic membrane potential ,  either directly  ( ionotropic receptors )  or indirectly  ( e .g .
a g protein - coupled receptor activity occurring in the postsynaptic membrane that is part of a gpcr signaling pathway that positively regulates ion channel activity in the postsynaptic membrane .
the pathway leading to secretion of a neurotransmitter from the presynapse as part of synaptic transmission .
the process in which synaptic vesicles fuse to the presynaptic endosome followed by sorting of synaptic vesicle components and budding of new synaptic vesicles .
any process that increases the concentration of calcium ions in the presynaptic cytosol .
cell - cell signaling to ,  from or within a synapse .
cell - cell signaling in either direction across the synaptic cleft .
any process that modulates synaptic transmission by regulating translation occurring at the synapse .
cell - cell signaling between presynapse and postsynapse ,  across the synaptic cleft ,  that modulates the synaptic transmission properties of the synapse .
the part of synaptic transmission occurring in the post - synapse: a signal transduction pathway consisting of neurotransmitter receptor activation and its effects on postsynaptic membrane potential and the ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
any process that regulates the concentration of calcium in the postsynaptic cytosol .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytoplasm of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytoplasm .
the portion of the cytoskeleton contained within the presynapse .
the portion of the cytoskeleton contained within the postsynapse .
a network of proteins within and adjacent to the postsynaptic membrane .
any process that modulates synaptic transmission by regulating a catabolic process occurring at a presynapse .
any process that modulates synaptic transmission by regulating a catabolic process occurring at a postsynapse .
any process that modulates synaptic transmission by regulating translation occurring at the presynapse .
any process that modulates synaptic transmission by regulating translation occurring at the postsynapse .
any atpase coupled ion transmembrane transporter activity ,  occurring in the postsynaptic membrane ,  that is involved in regulation of postsynaptic membrane potential .
any neurotransmitter receptor activity that is involved in regulating the concentration of calcium in the presynaptic cytosol .
any neurotransmitter receptor activity that is involved in regulating the concentration of calcium in the postsynaptic cytosol .
the directed movement of inorganic ions from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
any process that increases the concentration of calcium ions in the postsynaptic cytosol .
the process in which endocytosed synaptic vesicles fuse to the presynaptic endosome followed by sorting of synaptic vesicle components and budding of new synaptic vesicles .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurotransmitter receptor activity .
enables the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ions by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts .
any process that regulates the temporal pattern of a sequence of action potentials in a neuron .
the process in which ions are transported across the plasma membrane of a cardiac muscle cell such that the membrane potential changes in the repolarizing direction ,  toward the steady state potential .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a change in membrane potential in the polarizing direction towards the resting potential in a cardiomyocyte .
the process in which ions are transported across the plasma membrane of an atrial cardiac muscle cell such that the membrane potential changes in the repolarizing direction ,  toward the steady state potential .
the process in which ions are transported across the plasma membrane of a ventricular cardiac muscle cell such that the membrane potential changes in the repolarizing direction ,  toward the steady state potential .
regulation of presynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentrations via the action of voltage - gated calcium ion channels .
the membrane component of the postsynaptic specialization .
positive regulation of presynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentrations via the directed movement of calcium ions across the plasma - membrane into the cytosol via the action of voltage - gated calcium ion channels .
any signal release from a synapse .
the component of the synaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the induction of synaptic vesicle release by any process that leads to a rise in intracellular calcium ion concentration at the presynapse .
the complete extent of cell cortex that underlies some some region of the plasma membrane .
any action potential process that regulates skeletal muscle contraction .
any protein phosphorylation process that negatively regulates protein kinase activity .
any canonical wnt signaling pathway process that regulates heart induction .
any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that positively regulates dna repair .
the multiplication or reproduction of blood vessel endothelial cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h +   +  a trna uridine34  +  a  [ tuse sulfur carrier protein ]  - s - sulfanylcysteine = amp  +  diphosphoric acid  +  a trna 2 - thiouridine34  +  a  [ tuse sulfur carrier protein ]  - l - cysteine .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
catalysis of the reaction: 1 - phosphatidyl - myo - inositol 4 , 5 - bisphosphate  +  h2o = 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol phosphate  +  phosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle docking .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle docking .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle docking .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a prolongation or process extending from a neuron ,  e .g .
the collection of neuronal projections into a bundle of rods ,  known as a fascicle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cellular response to osmotic stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate receptor clustering .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a sterol biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a sterol biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a sterol biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell contraction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly ,  disassembly or arrangement of constituent parts of the basement membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures containing both actin and myosin or paramyosin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis i ,  a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the first phase of meiosis ,  in which cells divide and homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two daughter cells .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to mi phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to mi phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to mi phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel endothelial cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel endothelial cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel endothelial cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium import into the mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium import into the mitochondrion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion import into the mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
the orderly movement of a myotube cell from one site to another ,  often during the development of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myotube cell migration .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myotube cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myotube cell migration .
the process where mineral crystals are formed and deposited in an organized fashion in a matrix  ( either cellular or extracellular )  by living organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineralization ,  the formation and deposition of mineral crystals by living organisms .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineralization ,  the formation and deposition of mineral crystals by living organisms .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineralization ,  the formation and deposition of mineral crystals by living organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase  ( spindle phase one )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase  ( spindle phase one )  .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase  ( spindle phase one )  .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
any dna biosynthetic process that is involved in mitochondrial dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic neuron differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic neuron differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic neuron differentiation .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
the directed movement of hydrogen ions  ( protons )  from inside a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the extracellular region .
formation of a prolongation or process extending and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of plasma membrane bounded cell projections .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a plasma membrane bounded prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection are generated and organized .
the organization process that preserves a stereocilium in a stable functional or structural state .
contractions of the intestinal tract that include peristalsis  ( moving contents onward )  and non - peristaltic movement  ( moving contents back and forth )  .
def: the connection of an angiogenic sprout to another vessel or sprout during the formation of vascular networks by sprouting angiogenesis .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules that contributes to the formation of a blood vessel network .
the assembly of a filopodium ,  a thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the endothelial tip cell of a vascular sprout .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded neuron projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
a protein complex containing members of the like - sm family of proteins ,  which includes both the sm proteins and the lsm proteins ,  and which generally form hexameric or heptameric ring structures which bind to rna .
a heteroheptameric ,  nuclear protein complex composed of lsm2 ,  lsm3 ,  lsm4 ,  lsm5 ,  lsm6 ,  lsm7 ,  and lsm8 ,  or orthologs thereof ,  that selectively binds to snrnas ,  in particular the u6 snrna ,  and also to unspliced transcripts localized within the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphatidylinositol - 4 , 5 - bisphosphate 5 - phosphatase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphatidylinositol - 4 , 5 - bisphosphate 5 - phosphatase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphatidylinositol - 4 , 5 - bisphosphate 5 - phosphatase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of bile acid from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of bile acid from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of bile acid from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of termination of rna polymerase ii transcription .
the outer segment of a vertebrate cone photoreceptor that contains membrane discs that are contiguous with the ciliary membrane and containing opsin photoreceptor proteins .
the outer segment of a vertebrate rod photoreceptor that contains sealed membrane discs that are not connected to the ciliary membrane and containing rhodopsin photoreceptor proteins .
stack of disc membranes located inside a cone photoreceptor outer segment ,  and containing densely packed molecules of opsin photoreceptor proteins that traverse the lipid bilayer .
telodendria are projections that originate from the axon pedicle and form gap junctions with other neurons .
cone telodendria are projections that originate from the cone pedicle and form gap junctions with other photoreceptors within the outer plexiform layer of the retina .
one of the two nuclear divisions that occur as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a mitotic cell cycle process comprising the steps by which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides ;  the process involves condensation of chromosomal dna into a highly compacted form .
the cellular processes that contribute to exocytosis .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules as a result of an extracellular stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocardial cushion to mesenchymal transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocardial cushion to mesenchymal transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocardial cushion to mesenchymal transition .
the process in which a mitochondrial gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
the process by which an organelle membrane interacts with another membrane via molecular tethers that physically bridge the two membranes and attach them to each other .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a neuron projection are generated and organized into branches .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a dendritic tree are generated and organized into dendritic branches .
the process in which the terminal anatomical structures of an axon are generated and organized into branches of specialised projections ,  or boutons .
catalytic activity that acts to modify a protein .
catalytic activity that acts to modify dna .
catalytic activity that acts to modify rna .
a molecular function that controls the rate ,  timing and / or magnitude of transcription of genetic information .
the directed movement of some substance from inside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the extracellular region .
carries substances between the nucleus and the cytoplasm of a cell by moving along with the target protein .
a polyadenylation event  ( the enzymatic addition of a sequence of adenylyl residues at the 3' end of an rna molecule )  that takes place at a postsynapse .
translation that occurs at the presynapse .
translation that occurs at the presynapse ,  and that modulates chemical synaptic transmission .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which the presynapse take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which the postsynapse take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
translation that occurs at the synapse .
translation that occurs at the postsynapse .
any process that regulates translation occurring at the synapse .
any process that regulates translation occurring at the presynapse .
any process that regulates translation occurring at the postsynapse .
a cellular process in which two or more cells combine together ,  their plasma membrane fusing ,  producing a single cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a dna - binding transcription factor ,  a protein that interacts with a specific dna sequence  ( sometimes referred to as a motif )  within the regulatory region of a gene to modulate transcription .
the directed movement of some substance from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
the directed movement of a lipid from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
the cleavage of a peptide bond in a precursor form of a signaling receptor ligand ,  resulting in the mature  ( active )  form of the ligand .
a vesicular organelle that forms on retraction fibers behind migrating cells and mediates the release of cytoplasmic contents during cell migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spontaneous synaptic transmission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which the anatomical structures of a neuron projection are generated and organized into branches .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which the anatomical structures of a neuron projection are generated and organized into branches .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which the anatomical structures of a neuron projection are generated and organized into branches .
that part of an axon close to and including the growth cone or the axon terminus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of postsynapse assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a postsynapse .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the visual system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure ,  including the eye ,  parts of the central nervous system  ( cns )  involved in processing of visual inputs ,  and connecting nerve pathways .
the immediate defensive reaction by neural vertebrate tissue to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuroinflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuroinflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuroinflammatory response .
any rna binding that is involved in posttranscriptional gene silencing .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained ,  in a location within a cell - cell junction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell - cell junction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell - cell junction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell - cell junction .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another ,  medaited by a wnt family protein ligand .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokine production involved in inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokine production involved in inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokine production involved in inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to heat .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to heat .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to heat .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to hypoxia .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to hypoxia .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to hypoxia .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of retinoic acid biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of retinoic acid biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of retinoic acid biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxisome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxisome organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - tyrosine autophosphorylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - tyrosine autophosphorylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - tyrosine autophosphorylation .
any signalling pathway that increases or activates a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in determination of left / right symmetry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nodal signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nodal signaling pathway .
any regulation of signal transduction that takes place in the extracellular region .
any negative regulation of signal transduction that takes place in extracellular region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hyaluronan biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hyaluronan biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hyaluronan biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemokine activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemokine activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a nodal signaling pathway ,  where the nodal signaling pathway is involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a nodal signaling pathway ,  where the nodal signaling pathway is involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to fungus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization involved in bone maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization involved in bone maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization involved in bone maturation .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a nodal protein to an activin receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the establishment of lateral mesoderm with respect to the left and right halves .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a nodal signaling pathway ,  where the nodal signaling pathway is involved in determination of left / right asymmetry in the lateral mesoderm .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a nodal signaling pathway ,  where the nodal signaling pathway is involved in determination of left / right asymmetry in the lateral mesoderm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oocyte maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oocyte maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oocyte maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pronephric nephron tubule development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pronephric nephron tubule development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nodal signaling pathway involved in determination of lateral mesoderm left / right asymmetry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle endocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle endocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle endocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mda - 5 signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of long - term synaptic potentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of long - term synaptic potentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of long - term synaptic potentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna polyadenylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna polyadenylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna polyadenylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary metabolite biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary metabolite biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary metabolite biosynthetic process .
a positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in positive regulation of dna repair .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to oxidative stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to oxidative stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to oxidative stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of g1 / s transition of mitotic cell cycle by stopping ,  preventing ,  or reducing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
calcium - mediated signaling that results in positive regulation of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of p38mapk cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of p38mapk cascade .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway .
protein processing that takes place in the phagosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane depolarization during a cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane depolarization during a cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane depolarization during a cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any rna modification that takes place in mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to salt stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to salt stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to salt stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to reactive oxygen species .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to reactive oxygen species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to reactive oxygen species .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oviposition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oviposition .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a transforming growth factor beta receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving guanosine - containing compounds  ( guanosines )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of guanosine - containing compounds  ( guanosines )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of engulfment of apoptotic cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of engulfment of apoptotic cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of engulfment of apoptotic cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of relaxation of muscle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of relaxation of muscle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of relaxation of muscle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome maturation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrate derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrate derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving insulin .
any gene expression that is involved in extracellular matrix organization .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving primary amino compound .
any neural crest cell migration that is involved in autonomic nervous system development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart looping .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart looping .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart looping .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac chamber formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac chamber formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac chamber formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the development of the heart over time .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron death .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron death .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron death .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac chamber morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac chamber morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac chamber morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nik / nf - kappab signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nik / nf - kappab signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nik / nf - kappab signaling .
any negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in heart development .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in heart development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
the directed movement of a carbohydrate derivative into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with nucleoside phosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipooligosaccharide .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipooligosaccharide .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via single - strand annealing .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside phosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermidine biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermidine biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermidine biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of store - operated calcium channel activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of store - operated calcium channel activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of store - operated calcium channel activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with heterocyclic compound .
the directed movement of an acetate ester into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of voltage - gated calcium channel activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of voltage - gated calcium channel activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of voltage - gated calcium channel activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to ethanol .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to ethanol .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to ethanol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to alcohol .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to alcohol .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to alcohol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphangiogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphangiogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphangiogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial tube morphogenesis .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in cellular response to chemical stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of macromitophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitophagy .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitophagy .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion channel activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna demethylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna demethylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna demethylation .
the addition or removal of methyl groups to dna that contributes to the epigenetic regulation of embryonic gene expression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle lumen acidification .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle lumen acidification .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle lumen acidification .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial cell development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial cell development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial cell development .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
any microtubule in a dendrite ,  a neuron projection .
an arrangement of closely apposed microtubules running parallel to each other in the axon hillock and initial segment .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an alpha - amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic hydroxy compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic hydroxy compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of smoothened signaling pathway involved in dorsal / ventral neural tube patterning .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of smoothened signaling pathway involved in dorsal / ventral neural tube patterning .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of smoothened signaling pathway involved in dorsal / ventral neural tube patterning .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of postsynaptic membrane organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of postsynaptic membrane organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of postsynaptic membrane organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of presynaptic membrane organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of presynaptic membrane organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of presynaptic membrane organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome decondensation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a response that results in a state of tolerance to ketone .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosyl compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosyl compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of superoxide dismutase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of superoxide dismutase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of superoxide dismutase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k27 acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k27 acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k27 acetylation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the mesenchymal cells of bone as it progresses from its formation to the mature state .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in kidney development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in kidney development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in kidney development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of platelet aggregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myoblast fusion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myoblast fusion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myoblast fusion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction by p53 class mediator .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction by p53 class mediator .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction by p53 class mediator .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteasomal protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteasomal protein catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription of nuclear large rrna mediated by rna polymerase i .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription of nuclear large rrna transcript mediated by rna polymerase i .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription of nuclear large rrna mediated by rna polymerase i .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of high voltage - gated calcium channel activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of high voltage - gated calcium channel activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of high voltage - gated calcium channel activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication by electrical coupling involved in cardiac conduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication by electrical coupling involved in cardiac conduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication by electrical coupling involved in cardiac conduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle tissue development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle tissue development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle tissue development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein depolymerization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein depolymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein depolymerization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell junction assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell junction assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell junction assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in outflow tract morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in outflow tract morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid separation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of inward rectifier potassium channel activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of inward rectifier potassium channel activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein acetylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle phase transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle phase transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle phase transition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cartilage condensation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cartilage condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic stem cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic stem cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic stem cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic stem cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic stem cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic stem cell differentiation .
any regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in spermatogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - cysteine s - nitrosylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in defense response to gram - negative bacterium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any regulation of mitochondrial membrane permeability that is involved in apoptotic process .
any nucleotide phosphorylation that is involved in dna repair .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic spindle elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic spindle elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage by p53 class mediator .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage by p53 class mediator .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage by p53 class mediator .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of an oxidative stress - induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an oxidative stress - induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an oxidative stress - induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of an endoplasmic reticulum stress - induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an endoplasmic reticulum stress - induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an endoplasmic reticulum stress - induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in outflow tract morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in outflow tract morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in outflow tract morphogenesis .
any apoptotic process that is involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin organization .
any neuron projection extension that is involved in neuron projection guidance .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of retinal ganglion cell axon guidance .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
any blood vessel endothelial cell delamination that is involved in blood vessel lumen ensheathment .
any endothelial tube lumen extension that is involved in blood vessel lumen ensheathment .
any notch signaling pathway that is involved in somitogenesis .
any apoptotic process in a melanocyte ,  the main structural component of the epidermis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of notch signaling pathway involved in somitogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of notch signaling pathway involved in somitogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rrna catabolic process .
any chemoattractant activity that is involved in axon guidance .
any detection of stimulus that is involved in meiotic spindle checkpoint .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in meiotic spindle checkpoint .
any detection of stimulus that is involved in g1 dna damage checkpoint .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in g1 dna damage checkpoint .
any detection of stimulus that is involved in mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in mitotic dna integrity checkpoint .
any cytokinetic process that is involved in mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a cell junction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of male mating behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of male mating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of male mating behavior .
any regulation of mitochondrial membrane permeability that is involved in programmed necrotic cell death .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell population maintenance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell population maintenance .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k27 trimethylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k27 trimethylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k27 trimethylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to synapse .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to synapse .
the process in which chloride is transported across a membrane .
any apoptotic process in a hepatoblast .
a protein complex which is capable of catalytic activity .
a transmembrane protein complex which enables the transfer of a substance from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction involved in mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction involved in mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction involved in mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic dna fragmentation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic dna fragmentation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic dna fragmentation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle transport along microtubule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein monoubiquitination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein monoubiquitination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein monoubiquitination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to vascular endothelial growth factor stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to vascular endothelial growth factor stimulus .
any lymphoid lineage cell migration into thymus that is involved in thymus epithelium morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of catalase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of catalase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of catalase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type peptidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type peptidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of serine - type peptidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear cell cycle dna replication .
a localization which involves another organism .
the directed movement of a proton across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil migration .
any regulation of mrna stability that is involved in cellular response to uv .
a ciliary basal body that is part of a kinocilium .
any neural crest cell differentiation that is involved in thymus development .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tertiary alcohol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of tertiary alcohol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving secondary alcohol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of secondary alcohol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nad metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nad metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nad metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuroblast proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of satellite cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle satellite cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteoglycans ,  any glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteoglycans ,  any glycoprotein in which the carbohydrate units are glycosaminoglycans .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the multiplication or reproduction of chondrocytes by cell division ,  resulting in the expansion of their population .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the multiplication or reproduction of chondrocytes by cell division ,  resulting in the expansion of their population .
a small ,  membranous protrusion found primarily on dendritic stretches of developing neurons .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the process in which a chondroblast acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a chondrocyte that will contribute to the development of a bone .
any apoptotic process that is involved in anatomical structure development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lens fiber cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lens fiber cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lens fiber cell differentiation .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chondrocyte development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic skeletal joint development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic skeletal joint development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic skeletal joint development .
the directed movement of substances from late endosome to lysosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphodiesterase i activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphodiesterase i activity .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bmp signaling pathway involved in determination of lateral mesoderm left / right asymmetry .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bmp signaling pathway involved in determination of lateral mesoderm left / right asymmetry .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bmp signaling pathway involved in determination of lateral mesoderm left / right asymmetry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of late endosome to lysosome transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of late endosome to lysosome transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of late endosome to lysosome transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuronal signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuronal signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuronal signal transduction .
any microtubule cytoskeleton organization that is involved in mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic camera - type eye development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic camera - type eye development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic camera - type eye development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of retina development in camera - type eye .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of retina development in camera - type eye .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of retina development in camera - type eye .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of amacrine cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of amacrine cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of amacrine cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic pattern specification .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic pattern specification .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic pattern specification .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to oxidative stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to oxidative stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to oxidative stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteasome - activating atpase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteasome - activating atpase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteasome - activating atpase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of supramolecular fiber organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibril organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of supramolecular fiber organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of melanosome transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of melanosome transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of melanosome transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuroepithelial cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alcohol biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of alcohol biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alcohol biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of er to golgi vesicle - mediated transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of early endosome to recycling endosome transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of early endosome to recycling endosome transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial electron transport ,  nadh to ubiquinone .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial electron transport ,  nadh to ubiquinone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial electron transport ,  nadh to ubiquinone .
any nuclear dna replication that is involved in a mitotic cell cycle .
the disaggregation of an organelle into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chondrocyte hypertrophy .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chondrocyte hypertrophy .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chondrocyte hypertrophy .
any neural crest cell migration that is involved in sympathetic nervous system development .
a process that is part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a process that is part of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteolysis involved in cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteolysis involved in cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteolysis involved in cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of melanosome organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of melanosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of melanosome organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein lipidation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein lipidation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein lipidation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription occuring in the mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription occuring in the mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament - based movement .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament - based movement .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a mononuclear cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of endothelial barrier .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of endothelial barrier .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of endothelial barrier .
any actin filament that is part of a actomyosin contractile ring .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrion degradation by an autophagic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrion degradation by autophagy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopamine biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopamine biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopamine biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitellogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitellogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitellogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidative stress - induced cell death .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidative stress - induced cell death .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidative stress - induced cell death .
any apoptotic process in a glomerular visceral epithelial cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endodermal cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endodermal cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endodermal cell differentiation .
any mrna binding that is involved in posttranscriptional gene silencing .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a melanosome ,  a tissue - specific ,  membrane - bounded cytoplasmic organelle within which melanin pigments are synthesized and stored .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tumor necrosis factor - mediated signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione peroxidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione peroxidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione peroxidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hexokinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hexokinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hexokinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of regulated secretory pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of regulated secretory pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of regulated secretory pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nitrogen cycle metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nitrogen cycle metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nitrogen cycle metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein modification by small protein conjugation or removal .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein modification by small protein conjugation or removal .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein modification by small protein conjugation or removal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleus organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of golgi organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fear response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fear response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fear response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of foraging behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of foraging behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of foraging behavior .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of adherens junction organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of adherens junction organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of adherens junction organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium:potassium - exchanging atpase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium:potassium - exchanging atpase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium:potassium - exchanging atpase activity .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of reactive oxygen species ,  any molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle recycling .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle recycling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle recycling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of torc1 signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of g1 to g0 transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of g1 to g0 transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of g1 to g0 transition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving liposaccharide .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mucopolysaccharide .
the directed movement of calcium ion from endoplasmic reticulum to cytosol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein targeting .
any meiotic cell cycle process that is involved in oocyte maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle process involved in oocyte maturation .
any g protein - coupled receptor signaling pathway that is involved in defense response to gram - negative bacterium .
any vesicle that is part of the extracellular region .
any microtubule bundle formation that is involved in spindle midzone assembly involved in mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel endothelial cell proliferation involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel endothelial cell proliferation involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel endothelial cell proliferation involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gap junction assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gap junction assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gap junction assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrion degradation by autophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of inward rectifier potassium channel activity .
any mapk cascade that is involved in axon regeneration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sprouting angiogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sprouting angiogenesis .
any cleavage furrow formation that is involved in mitotic cell cycle .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an enterocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of aerobic respiration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phospholipid metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phospholipid metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phospholipid metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of p38mapk cascade .
any gap junction channel activity that is involved in cell communication by electrical coupling .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of beta - galactosidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of beta - galactosidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac conduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac conduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac conduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion import across the plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion import across the plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion import across the plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of inorganic anion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of inorganic anion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of inorganic anion transmembrane transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of production of mirnas involved in gene silencing by mirna .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of production of mirnas involved in gene silencing by mirna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of production of mirnas involved in gene silencing by mirna .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of voltage - gated potassium channel activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of voltage - gated potassium channel activity .
any detection of stimulus that is involved in a mitotic cytokinesis checkpoint .
any signal transduction that is involved in a mitotic cytokinesis checkpoint .
the process in which an organic acid is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to transforming growth factor beta stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to transforming growth factor beta stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to transforming growth factor beta stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of aorta morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of aorta morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of aorta morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cristae formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cristae formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cristae formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite extension .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite extension .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite extension .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidative phosphorylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of viral life cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of viral life cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of viral life cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor clustering .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor clustering .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor clustering .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein processing in phagocytic vesicle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein processing in phagocytic vesicle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein processing in phagocytic vesicle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of respiratory gaseous exchange .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of respiratory gaseous exchange .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hepatocyte apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hepatocyte apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hepatocyte apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atrial cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atrial cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glial cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glial cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glial cell migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microglial cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microglial cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microglial cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
any apoptotic process in an epithelial cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of collagen fibril organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of collagen fibril organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of collagen fibril organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclin - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclin - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclin - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spontaneous neurotransmitter secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spontaneous neurotransmitter secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spontaneous neurotransmitter secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotor rhythm .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotor rhythm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotor rhythm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation transmembrane transport .
any g protein - coupled receptor signaling pathway that is involved in social behavior .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in neuron fate specification .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
a negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in negative regulation of neuron apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
any cytoplasm that is part of a axon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of otic vesicle morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of otic vesicle morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of otic vesicle morphogenesis .
the orderly movement of a microglial cell from one site to another .
any convergent extension that is involved in rhombomere morphogenesis .
any convergent extension that is involved in notochord morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in somitogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in somitogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in somitogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in neural plate elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in neural plate elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in neural plate elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in rhombomere morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in rhombomere morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in rhombomere morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in notochord morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in notochord morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in notochord morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microglial cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microglial cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microglial cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle process involved in oocyte maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle process involved in oocyte maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipose tissue development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipose tissue development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipose tissue development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane depolarization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane depolarization .
any positive regulation of cyclin - dependent protein serine / threonine kinase activity that is involved in meiotic nuclear division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of succinate dehydrogenase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of succinate dehydrogenase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of succinate dehydrogenase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of aconitate hydratase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of aconitate hydratase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of aconitate hydratase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of substrate - dependent cell migration ,  cell attachment to substrate .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of substrate - dependent cell migration ,  cell attachment to substrate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of substrate - dependent cell migration ,  cell attachment to substrate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of basement membrane assembly involved in embryonic body morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of basement membrane assembly involved in embryonic body morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of basement membrane assembly involved in embryonic body morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of torc1 signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of torc1 signaling .
the cell cortex of the leading edge of a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastro - intestinal system smooth muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastro - intestinal system smooth muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastro - intestinal system smooth muscle contraction .
any transmitter - gated ion channel activity that is involved in regulation of postsynaptic membrane potential .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  wakefulness .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic neuron differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic neuron differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein catabolic process in the vacuole .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein catabolic process in the vacuole .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein catabolic process in the vacuole .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomere maintenance via telomere lengthening .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomere maintenance via telomere lengthening .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomere maintenance via telomere lengthening .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell periphery .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell periphery .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell periphery .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle acetylcholine - gated channel clustering .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle acetylcholine - gated channel clustering .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle acetylcholine - gated channel clustering .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular junction development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular junction development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular junction development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nitric oxide metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nitric oxide metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac ventricle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac ventricle development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac ventricle development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuronal action potential .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuronal action potential .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
a positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in regulation of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
a negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in regulation of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular mrna localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular mrna localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular mrna localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of termination of rna polymerase ii transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of termination of rna polymerase ii transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of connective tissue replacement involved in inflammatory response wound healing .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of connective tissue replacement involved in inflammatory response wound healing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of connective tissue replacement involved in inflammatory response wound healing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glomerular visceral epithelial cell apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glomerular visceral epithelial cell apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glomerular visceral epithelial cell apoptotic process .
the process in which glucose is transported across a membrane .
any negative regulation of cell differentiation that is involved in stem cell population maintenance .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational initiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational initiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational initiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of type b pancreatic cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of type b pancreatic cell proliferation .
the developmental process by which a midbrain is generated and organized .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to adherens junction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to adherens junction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to adherens junction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ampa glutamate receptor clustering .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ampa glutamate receptor clustering .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ampa glutamate receptor clustering .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal lipid absorption .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal lipid absorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal lipid absorption .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of electron transfer activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of electron transfer activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of electron transfer activity .
a posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression that results in regulation of synapse organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
a torc1 signaling that results in negative regulation of macroautophagy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to centrosome .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to centrosome .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to centrosome .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nmda glutamate receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nmda glutamate receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric protein localization involved in cell fate determination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric protein localization involved in cell fate determination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of asymmetric protein localization involved in cell fate determination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron remodeling .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron remodeling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron remodeling .
any regulation of translation that is involved in cellular response to uv .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oxidation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oxidation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oxidation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of superoxide radicals .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of superoxide radicals .
the developmental process by which a dorsal root ganglion is generated and organized .
any dna biosynthetic process that is involved in mitotic dna replication .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an excitatory synapse .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an inhibitory synapse .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cranial skeletal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of excitatory synapse assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of excitatory synapse assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of excitatory synapse assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor signaling via stat .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor signaling via stat .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor signaling pathway via stat .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in axon regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in axon regeneration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in axon regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cartilage condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation in midbrain .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation in midbrain .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation in midbrain .
any wnt signaling pathway ,  planar cell polarity pathway that is involved in axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
the orderly movement of a slow muscle cell from one site to another .
the orderly movement of a lymphatic endothelial cell from one site to another in the wall of a lymphatic vessel .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endosome organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endosome organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane repolarization during atrial cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane repolarization during atrial cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane repolarization during atrial cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial to mesenchymal transition involved in endocardial cushion formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial to mesenchymal transition involved in endocardial cushion formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial to mesenchymal transition involved in endocardial cushion formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane repolarization during ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane repolarization during ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane repolarization during ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any voltage - gated ion channel activity that is involved in regulation of postsynaptic membrane potential .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane repolarization during cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane repolarization during cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane repolarization during cardiac muscle cell action potential .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of an antifungal innate immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an antifungal innate immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an antifungal innate immune response .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an autophagosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane lipid metabolic process .
the process in which carboxylic acid is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelium regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelium regeneration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelium regeneration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell proliferation involved in axon regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell proliferation involved in axon regeneration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell proliferation involved in axon regeneration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of metallopeptidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of metallopeptidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of metallopeptidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of base - excision repair .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of base - excision repair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of base - excision repair .
any voltage - gated calcium channel activity that is involved in regulation of postsynaptic cytosolic calcium ion concentration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardioblast proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardioblast proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular smooth muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular smooth muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular smooth muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in heart development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in heart development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in heart development .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of cardiac jelly over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cerebellar neuron development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cerebellar neuron development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cerebellar neuron development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
the component of the lysosome membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
any cell surface receptor signaling pathway that is involved in cell - cell signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucosylceramidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucosylceramidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucosylceramidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic chromosome separation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic chromosome separation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic chromosome separation .
the process that gives rise to the apical ectodermal ridge .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apical ectodermal ridge formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apical ectodermal ridge formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apical ectodermal ridge formation .
any cellular protein catabolic process that takes place in a lysosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of voltage - gated sodium channel activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of voltage - gated sodium channel activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of voltage - gated sodium channel activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagosome maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagosome maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagosome maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosomal protein catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosomal protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosomal protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via homologous recombination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of connective tissue replacement .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of connective tissue replacement .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of connective tissue replacement .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of platelet formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of platelet formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of platelet formation .
the developmental process by which an atrioventricular canal is generated and organized .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in osteoblast differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in osteoblast differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in osteoblast differentiation .
any endonucleolytic rna phosphodiester bond hydrolysis that is involved in trna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural crest cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural crest cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural crest cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural crest cell fate specification .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural crest cell fate specification .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural crest cell fate specification .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal epithelial cell development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal epithelial cell development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal epithelial cell development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac myofibril assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac myofibril assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac myofibril assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac neural crest cell migration involved in outflow tract morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac neural crest cell migration involved in outflow tract morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac neural crest cell migration involved in outflow tract morphogenesis .
any transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway that is involved in heart development .
any cell proliferation that is involved in endocardial cushion morphogenesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a telomere - telomerase complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a ciliary transition zone .
a protein complex which is capable of gtpase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in positive regulation of cell growth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled electron transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled electron transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled electron transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphoid progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphoid progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphoid progenitor cell differentiation .
any canonical wnt signaling pathway that is involved in stem cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate - ammonia ligase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate - ammonia ligase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate - ammonia ligase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of motor neuron migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of motor neuron migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of motor neuron migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anterior / posterior axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anterior / posterior axon guidance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anterior / posterior axon guidance .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory neuron axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory neuron axon guidance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory neuron axon guidance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of branching morphogenesis of a nerve .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of motile cilium assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of motile cilium assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of motile cilium assembly .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a microtubule organizing center .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fertilization .
the orderly movement of a macrophage from one site to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel branching .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel branching .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel branching .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic nuclear envelope disassembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic nuclear envelope disassembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic nuclear envelope disassembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vascular endothelial cell proliferation .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a fibronectin fibril .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor - mediated endocytosis involved in cholesterol transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor - mediated endocytosis involved in cholesterol transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor - mediated endocytosis involved in cholesterol transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of presynapse assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of presynapse assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of presynapse assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial mrna catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial mrna catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial mrna catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna methylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna methylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of artery morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of artery morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of artery morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosome organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lysosome organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of inhibitory synapse assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of inhibitory synapse assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of inhibitory synapse assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled proton transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled proton transport .
any microtubule bundle that is part of a cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna cis splicing ,  via spliceosome .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna cis splicing ,  via spliceosome .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna cis splicing ,  via spliceosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesodermal cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesodermal cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesodermal cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of exonuclease activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of exonuclease activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of exonuclease activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anaphase - promoting complex - dependent catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anaphase - promoting complex - dependent catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anaphase - promoting complex - dependent catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanosensory behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanosensory behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanosensory behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synapse organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of motor neuron axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of motor neuron axon guidance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of motor neuron axon guidance .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dorsal / ventral axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dorsal / ventral axon guidance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dorsal / ventral axon guidance .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome separation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome separation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome separation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of 3' - utr - mediated mrna stabilization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of 3' - utr - mediated mrna stabilization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of 3' - utr - mediated mrna stabilization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of postsynaptic density organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of postsynaptic density organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of postsynaptic density organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle tissue development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle tissue development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle tissue development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell fate determination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell fate determination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell fate determination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of germ cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of germ cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of germ cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gonad development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gonad development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gonad development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of formation of growth cone in injured axon .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of formation of growth cone in injured axon .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of formation of growth cone in injured axon .
any dna recombination that takes place in mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial tube morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial tube morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to alcohol .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to alcohol .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to alcohol .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a glutamatergic neuron .
a cytoplasmic membrane - bounded vesicle of varying size ,  but usually larger than 45 nm ,  with an electron dense granular core ,  found in noradrenergic and peptidergic cells .
any apoptotic process in a retinal cell .
a cell projection  ( often from glial cells such as schwann cells )  that surrounds an unmyelinated axon or cell soma .
a plasma membrane region adjacent to the base of eukaryotic cilia and flagella that is enriched in endocytosis - associated proteins and vesicles and that appears to regulate ciliary membrane homeostasis .
the directed movement of membrane - bounded vesicles from endosomes back to the plasma membrane ,  a trafficking pathway that promotes the recycling of internalized transmembrane proteins .
long distance growth of a single neuron projection involved in cellular development .
the modification of histone h2a by the addition of a phosphate group .
any protein complex that possesses oxidoreductase activity .
the movement of a neutrophil within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
the movement of substances between cells via gap junctions .
a protein complex facilitating transport of molecules  ( proteins ,  small molecules ,  nucleic acids )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells .
the regrowth of lost or destroyed epithelium .
the process occurring during the embryonic phase whose specific outcome is the progression of the liver over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a type of voltage - dependent calcium channel responsible for excitation - contraction coupling of skeletal ,  smooth ,  and cardiac muscle .
any microtubule that is part of a mitotic spindle ;  anchored at one spindle pole .
the regrowth of bone following its loss or destruction .
the process in which a solute is transported from one side of a membrane to the other into ,  out of or within a mitochondrion .
any of the meiotic spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles and are thought to contribute to the forces that separate the poles and position them in relation to the rest of the cell .
the process by which the rods of the retina gradually become fully responsive to dim light when no longer exposed to bright light .
the joining of two lipid bilayers that surround the mitochondria .
a natural reduction in reproductive capacity with aging ,  often taking the form of a switch from regular reproductive cycles to irregular and infrequent ones .
any process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the physical structure of nucleolar chromatin .
the associative learning process by which an animal learns and remembers an association between a neutral ,  unchanging environment and a putatively rewarding ,  internal state produced by a xenobiotic or drug .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a presynaptic active zone .
part of the 9 + 2 axoneme ,  that occurs in most motile cilia ,  consisting of the pair of two single central microtubules and their associated structures which include the central pair projections ,  the central pair bridges linking the two tubules ,  and the central pair caps which are attached to the distal or plus ends of the microtubules .
one of two microtubules present in the axonemal central pair .
one of two microtubules present in the axonemal central pair .
an extracellular vesicle released from the plasma membrane and ranging in size from about 100 nm to 1000 nm .
any process carried out at the cellular level that reduces or removes the toxicity of a toxic substance .
a spherical particle containing non - covalently associated proteins and lipids .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  the cell periphery .
any process that decreases the activity of a transcription factor that activates transcription of hedgehog - target genes in response to smoothened signaling .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a dorsal root ganglion over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the regrowth of a destroyed pancreas .
a thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of an axonal or dendritic growth cone .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively and non - covalently with double - stranded dna of a specific nucleotide composition ,  e .g .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and rna molecules .
the plasma membrane that is part of the head section of a sperm cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a dna damage checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a dna damage checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a dna damage checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to the cell surface .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to the cell surface .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to the cell surface .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of male gonad development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of male gonad development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of male gonad development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multicellular organismal development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to red or far red light .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell population maintenance .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in axis elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in axis elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via homologous recombination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac cell fate specification .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac cell fate specification .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell - cell adhesion mediated by cadherin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell - cell adhesion mediated by cadherin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell - cell adhesion mediated by cadherin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - canonical wnt signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - canonical wnt signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - canonical wnt - activated signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway involved in dorsal / ventral axis specification .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway involved in dorsal / ventral axis specification .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway involved in dorsal / ventral axis specification .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway involved in digestive tract morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway involved in digestive tract morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cortisol biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cortisol biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cortisol biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pancreatic b cell development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pancreatic b cell development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pancreatic b cell development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway modulating the rate or frequency of pancreatic b cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway modulating the rate or frequency of pancreatic b cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway modulating the rate or frequency of pancreatic b cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesenchymal to epithelial transition involved in mesonephros morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesenchymal to epithelial transition involved in mesonephros morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesenchymal to epithelial transition involved in mesonephros morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway ,  planar cell polarity pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway ,  planar cell polarity pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment or maintenance of bipolar cell polarity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - dependent dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - dependent dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of cell polarity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of superoxide radicals .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in heart morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in heart morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in heart morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in heart morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in heart morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in outflow tract morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in outflow tract morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in neural tube closure .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in neural tube closure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - cysteine s - nitrosylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - cysteine s - nitrosylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendrite development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of branching morphogenesis of a nerve .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of branching morphogenesis of a nerve .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural precursor cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural precursor cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural precursor cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of female gonad development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of female gonad development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of female gonad development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ribonucleoprotein complex localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ribonucleoprotein complex localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ribonucleoprotein complex localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bmp signaling pathway involved in heart jogging .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pancreatic a cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pancreatic a cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pancreatic a cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rrna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rrna processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rrna processing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna processing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin cytoskeleton reorganization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin cytoskeleton reorganization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin cytoskeleton reorganization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein activation cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein activation cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein activation cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myotome development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myoblast proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myotome development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myoblast proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synapse maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rho - dependent protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rho - dependent protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle exocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle exocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle exocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of n - methyl - d - aspartate selective glutamate receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ampa selective glutamate receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway involved in neural plate anterior / posterior pattern formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway involved in neural plate anterior / posterior pattern formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway involved in neural plate anterior / posterior pattern formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hepatocyte proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hepatocyte proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hepatocyte proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial cell apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial cell apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endothelial cell apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovarian follicle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovarian follicle development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of prostaglandin - e synthase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of prostaglandin - e synthase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of prostaglandin - e synthase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxygen metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxygen metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxygen metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ectoderm development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ectoderm development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ectoderm development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ovarian follicle development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil extravasation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil extravasation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil extravasation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of thymocyte migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of thymocyte migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of thymocyte migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic cell clearance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic cell clearance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic cell clearance .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil aggregation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil aggregation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil aggregation .
any process that enhances the establishment or increases the extent of the excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  which is a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic stem cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic stem cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic stem cell migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of camp - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of camp - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of camp - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hepatic stellate cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hepatic stellate cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hepatic stellate cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in compound eye morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in compound eye morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in compound eye morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel remodeling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of renal albumin absorption .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of renal albumin absorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of renal albumin absorption .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein geranylgeranylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein geranylgeranylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein geranylgeranylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastrulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastrulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of optic nerve formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of optic nerve formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of optic nerve formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in mesonephros development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in mesonephros development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in mesonephros development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 acetylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  nonsense - mediated decay .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  nonsense - mediated decay .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  nonsense - mediated decay .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pre - microrna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pre - microrna processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pre - microrna processing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of primary microrna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of primary microrna processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of primary microrna processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene silencing by mirna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of early endosome to late endosome transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of early endosome to late endosome transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of early endosome to late endosome transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription regulatory region dna binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription regulatory region dna binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription regulatory region dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell myoblast differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell myoblast differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation involved in kidney development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation involved in kidney development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation involved in kidney development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell myoblast differentiation .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in smooth muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - lysine acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - lysine acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - lysine acetylation .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in norepinephrine biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular senescence .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular senescence .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular senescence .
any histone h4 acetylation that is involved in a response to dna damage stimulus .
any positive regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process that is involved in a cellular response to hypoxia .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic vacuole assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of venous endothelial cell fate commitment .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of venous endothelial cell fate commitment .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of venous endothelial cell fate commitment .
any cell proliferation that is involved in heart valve development .
any notch signaling pathway that is involved in negative regulation of venous endothelial cell fate commitment .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocardial cushion to mesenchymal transition involved in heart valve formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocardial cushion to mesenchymal transition involved in heart valve formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocardial cushion to mesenchymal transition involved in heart valve formation .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components located at the endosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle clustering .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle clustering .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic vesicle clustering .
a process of regulation of mrna stability that is involved in a response to oxidative stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid separation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myoblast proliferation .
any negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in smooth muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavioral fear response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of corticosteroid hormone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of corticosteroid hormone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of corticosteroid hormone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucocorticoid secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucocorticoid secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucocorticoid secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h4 acetylation involved in response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ampa selective glutamate receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of forebrain neuron differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of forebrain neuron differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of forebrain neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of inner ear receptor cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of inner ear receptor cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of inner ear receptor cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavioral fear response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavioral fear response .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize the mesenchymal cells of the renal system as it progresses from its formation to the mature state .
any epithelial cell proliferation that is involved in renal tubule morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of retrograde axon cargo transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of retrograde axon cargo transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of retrograde axon cargo transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a reactive nitrogen species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lens epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lens epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lens epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytic recycling .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytic recycling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytic recycling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of renal water transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of renal water transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of renal water transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation involved in immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation involved in immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation involved in immune response .
any basement membrane assembly that is involved in embryonic body morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chloride transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chloride transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k36 trimethylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k36 trimethylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k36 trimethylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation channel activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation channel activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation channel activity .
any roundabout signaling pathway that is involved in axon guidance .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis .
pathological structure or process
phenotypic observation of the presence or absence of a pathological entity .
non - invasive changes characterized by alteration in the size ,  shape and organization of the cellular components of an epithelial tissue .
a tumor resulting from abnormal and uncontrolled autonomous new cell growth  ( proliferation ) that may be benign or malignant .
tumors of the skin ,  its constituent structures and glands including the mammary gland ,  apocrine and eccrine glands ,  hair follicles and associated structures .
tumor of venous or arterial vessels or capillaries .
malignant neoplasm derived from pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells or endothelial cells of blood vessels .
neoplasm of the neurones ,  glia or meninges of the cns .
glioma derived from astrocytes ,  both benign and malignant forms  ( m - 9400 / 3 )  .
neoplasm derived from astrocytes and oligodendrocytes .
neoplasm derived from the primitive neurectodermal cells of the cerebellum .
tumors showing multiple histological componants / differentiation .
embryonal tumor thought to be derived from metanephric blastema .
tumors with epithelial invaginations / linings and a fibrillary and fibrocytic stroma .
neoplasms derived from glandular epithelial cells .
malignant neoplasm of epithelial cells in glandular or glandlike pattern .
a benign epithelial neoplasm in which the tumor cells may form glands or glandlike structures .
spontaneous intestinal adenoma formation .polyps increase in number ,  causing symptoms of chronic colitis and potentially transform into adenocarcinoma .
derived from the mammary ductal epithelium and penetrating the stroma  ( m - 8500 / 3 )  .
germ cell and non - germ cell tumors of the testis and ovary .
neoplasms derived from germ cells .
tumor derived from spermatogenic cells resembling spermatogenia or spermatocytes .
proliferative disorders and malignancies of the lymphoid and non lymphoid haematopoietic lineages .
leukaemias of the myeloid lineage .
tumors of the liver and biliary apparatus .
benign neoplasm derived from hepatocytes .
malignant tumor derived from the bile duct epithelium .
malignant neoplasm of the liver of unknown origin  .
malignant tumor derived from hepatocytes .
tumors derived from melanocytes .
tumor of neurectodermal origin ,  usually melanocytes ,  showing dense deposition of melanin granules ,  although amelanotic melanomas have been reported .
a potentially malignant lesion ,  melanoma in situ is the first phase of growth of melanoma ,  in which it is still confined to the epithelial domain  ( epidermis and adnexa )  and has not passed through the basement membrane .
local lesion of the skin ,  often colored by hyperpigmentation or increased vascularity .
neoplasms derived from the neuroendocrine system .
primitive neuroectodermal tumors  ( pnet )  are neoplasms derived from primitive neural stem cells either in the cns or the periphery  .
neuroendocrine cell derived anaplastic carcinoma composed of small cells ,  usually of the lung producing a variety of peptide hormones .
neoplasms derived from neuroepithelial precursors .
a malignant neoplasm characterized by immature ,  poorly differentiated nerve cells of embryonic type .
malignant juvenile neoplasm of the eye derived from primitive retinal precursor cells .
neoplasms of bone and cartilage .
malignant neoplasm derived form mesenchymal stem cells ,  osteoblasts or osteocytes .
neoplasms of the soft and connective tissues .
believed to arise from primitive notochord remnants  .
benign neoplasm of fibroblasts / fibrocytes with poor / moderate cellularity .
neoplasms derived from myogenic lineages or predominantly composed of cells showing myomatous differentiation .
malignant tumor of striated muscle or pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells .
neoplasms of the nerve sheath .
peripheral nerve tumor consisting of chaotic arrays of wavy schwann cell bundles and fibroblasts interspersed within a matrix rich in collagen and mucopolysaccharide .
malignant neoplasm derived from schwann cells .
neoplasms of stratified squamous epithelial cells .
a benign tumor consisting of villous or arborescent outgrowths of fibrovascular stroma covered by neoplastic epithelial cells  ( m - 8050 / 0 )  .
malignant tumor derived from stratified squamous cells .
benign neoplastic growth containing areas of adenomatous structure  ( progression )  .
neoplasms of non - lymphoid haematopoietic lineage .
neoplasms of the b or t cell lineage .
hematological neoplasias of non - lymphoid origin .
neoplasm of the b cell lymphoid lineage .
diffuse proliferation of mature plasma cells .
neoplasms derived from cells of the t lymphocyte lineage .
neoplasms of precursor t cells .
precursor t cell derived neoplasia .
malignant tumor of unknown origin showing features of hepatocelluar carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma .
any of various types of malignant neoplasm derived from epithelial cells ,  chiefly glandular  ( adenocarcinoma )  or squamous  ( squamous cell carcinoma )  .
a connective tissue neoplasm ,  usually highly malignant ,  formed by proliferation of mesodermal cells .
lesions which in some cases have the potential to become progressively growing malignant tumors .
tumor composed of small glandular clusters with small lumens .
develop primarily through increasing anaplasia of well differentiated gliomas ,  mainly astrocytomas or oligodendrogliomas .
tumors of neuronal and non - neuronal cells derived from embryonic neurepithelium .
tumors of the peripheral nervous system .
anatomically located instance of pathological response or entity .
malignant mesenchymal tumor that morphologically and phenotypically resembles embryonal skeletal muscle .
benign stromal tumors of the soft tissue with skeletal muscle differentiation .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's scalar absolute value of the rate of change of the bearer's position .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
a composite chromatic quality composed of hue ,  saturation and intensity parts .
a scalar optical property that is the intensity ,  value or amount of perceived light .
a scalar chromatic property that is the degree of purity of perceived light .
a luminous flux quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's emitting longer wavelength light following the absorption of shorter wavelength radiation ;  fluorescence is common with aromatic compounds with several rings joined together .
a chromatic property that is the relative position of different hues or degrees of saturation .
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's density ,  firmness ,  or viscosity .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's orientation in space .
a quality that is the extent of space between two entities .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to pressure ,  being broken ,  or pierced
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing or displaying a distinctive feature in type or degree or effect or force .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's expected maximum age .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting repetition of placement of its parts .
a sleep quality defined by the mathematic properties of the relative time frames of the sleep cycle .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer's disposition to react to a stimulus or an agent .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's movement or variation characterized by the regular recurrence or alternation of different quantities or conditions .
a physical quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the size of the bearer's maximum displacement from the 'normal' position ,  when periodic motion is taking place .
a rhythm quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the repetitiveness of bearer's rhythm .
a quality that exists by virtue of being a particular point in the time of a cycle .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to detect or perceive external stimulation .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical dimension of extension .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer that has mass near a gravitational body .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement which is defined by the angle between the bearer and an axis ,  or the angle between the bearer and another object .
a morphological quality pertaining to the degree to which an object contains an opening ,  aperture ,  orifice or vent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a morphologic quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative size ,  organization and distribution of its surface elements or the representation or invention of the appearance of its surface ;  visual and tactile surface characteristics .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
a quality in which events occur in sequence .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of having physical steadiness .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a quality of a single physical entity which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits a state of growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a reproductive quality inhering in an organism or population by virtue of the bearer's potential reproductive capacity ad measured by the number of gametes .
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a fertility quality inhering in a female by virtue of the bearer's disposition to initiate ,  sustain ,  or support reproduction .
a fertility quality of inhering in a male by virtue of the bearer's disposition to initiate ,  sustain ,  or support reproduction .
a quality of a process which ends earlier than the natural end time or reference process .
a mobility quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a mobility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable to move freely .
a speed which is relatively high .
a speed which is relatively low .
a color that lacks any hues as parts .
a color hue with low wavelength of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between green and indigo ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 420 to 490 nanometers .
a color hue with medium - low wavelength of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between yellow and blue ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 490 to 570 nanometers .
a color hue with high wavelength of the long - wave end of the visible spectrum ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 630 to 750 nanometers .
an achromatic color of maximum brightness ;  the color of objects that reflect nearly all light of all visible wavelengths .
a color hue with medium wavelength of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between orange and green ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 570 to 590 nanometers .
a color brightness which is relatively low .
a color saturation which is of low purity .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of or the relationships between its repeated parts lack consistency .
a color quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being altered or spoiled in color .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's being marked with a round area of different hue or degree of saturation .
a color quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having color .
a color quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking color .
a distance which is greater relative to the normal or average .
a distance which is lesser relative to the normal or average .
a frequency which is relatively high .
a frequency which is relatively low .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population whose sex organs contain only male gametes .
a hardness quality of being rigid and resistant to pressure .
a hardness quality of giving little resistance to pressure .
an intensity which is less than extreme in type or degree or effect or force .
an intensity which is extremely bad or unpleasant in type or degree or effect or force .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a groove or fissure .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curled or wound  ( especially in concentric rings or spirals )  .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having parallel chains in undulate fashion on the border .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being marked by a curve or smoothly rounded bend .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a horizontal surface without a slope ,  tilt ,  or curvature .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having leaflets or leaflets - like structures on each side of a common axis .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being such that every part of the surface or the circumference is equidistant from the center .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an equal - sided rectangular form .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking branches .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's once or in or a few unpredictable instances .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a repeatable or predictable placement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of not being clearly visible .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a response quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to react to a stimulus or an agent .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively low .
a quality of a process which starts later than the natural start time or the reference process .
a phase which occurs during the light cycle .
a rhythm quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking rhythm .
a photosensitivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting photosensitivity .
a height which is relatively low .
a height which is relatively high .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
a weight which is relatively high .
a weight which is relatively low .
an increased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting enlargement of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced size of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being a remnant structure from earlier development or evolution .
a thickness which is relatively high .
a thickness which is relatively low .
a volume which is relatively high .
a volume which is relatively low .
a width which is relatively small .
a width which is relatively large .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording not completed blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording unobstructed passage or view .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking orientation .
a pattern where all the repeated elements are oriented in the same direction .
an anterioralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally anterior structures .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking symmetry .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more angle ( s )  in its length .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two sides ;  two - sided .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being overfilled .
a dorsalized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally dorsal structures .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's protruding or projecting from the body .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's becoming joined together with an additional entity .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being reversed in position ,  order ,  or condition .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being moved or displaced to one side so as to make lateral .
a spatial pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being confined or restricted to a particular location .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in abnormal position .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having mistakenly taken course ,  way ,  or passage ;  ill - routed .
a posterioralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally posterior structures .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of division by a longitudinal plane into similar halves .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being confined or restricted to a particular location .
a ventralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally ventral structures .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of blebbing of the nucleus and dna fragmentation due to the cell undergoing a specific form of programmed cell death termed apoptosis .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer whose structure deteriorates or is lost over time due to an active pathological process .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting an alteration in size ,  shape or organization of its constituent cells .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being merged with another entity .
a increased size quality inhering in an organ or tissue by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting increased number of cells .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced number of cells within an organ or tissue .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted during formation .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's undergoing unprogrammed cell death .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being blocked or filled with obstacles or an obstacle .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being no longer merged with another entity .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not occurring or existing at the same time or having the same period or phase .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being uninterrupted in time ,  sequence ,  substance ,  or extent .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by breaks or interruptions .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's origin or development at an unusual time or out of the regular sequence .
a quality of a process which starts earlier than the natural start time or the reference process .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's irregular surface .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing a surface free of roughness or irregularities .
a viability quality inhering in a population by virtue of the bearer's long term survival inability .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's ability to survive or the long term survival ability of a given population .
a balance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking balance .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting increased activity .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced activity .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being affected by loss of the ability to move a body part .
a coordination quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a coordination quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a female fertility quality inhering in a female by virtue of the bearer's disposition to initiate ,  sustain ,  or support reproduction .
a male fertility quality inhering in a male by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a male fertility quality inhering in a male by virtue of the bearer's being capable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a female fertility quality inhering in a female by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance from one side of an object to another side which is opposite .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being sensitivity to the action of radiant energy .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating abruptly by having or as if having an end or point cut off .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking organisation .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting organisation .
a structural quality inhering in a cytoplasm that contains fluid filled cavities .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sharp or tapered end or point .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a somewhat elongated form with approximately parallel sides .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval with two axes of symmetry ,  as produced by a conical section .
a color between white and black colors .
a color consisting of dark orange ,  red ,  of very low intensity .
a color hue with high - medium wavelength that of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between red and yellow ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 585 to 620 nanometers .
a fertility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a fertility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
an optical quality which obtains by virtue of the ability of the bearer to absorb visible light .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being clear ;  not transmitting or reflecting light or radiant energy .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking opacity .
a pattern quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the correspondence in size ,  shape ,  and relative position of the bearer's parts on opposite sides of a dividing line or median plane or about a center or axis .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sinuate margin and rippled surface .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally small .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to admit the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a permeability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable to be permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a physical quality of a liquid inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to internal resistance to flow .
a viscosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having viscosity .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the time it elapses for the bearer to respond to a stimulus .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence is exerted by the bearer's mass per unit size .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer has been harmed or injured or spoiled .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of force per unit area it exerts .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of ratio of the bearer's output to the bearer's input .
a physical quality that exists by virtue of the rate of flow of the bearer across a given surface .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to recover its size and shape after deformation in any way .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the relative change in the bearer's length or the bearer's volume when being stretched or squashed .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's rate of change of momentum .
an angle which is less than 90 degrees .
an angle which is between 90 degrees and 180 degrees to another entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably higher than its width .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting density .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being harmed or injured or spoiled ,  such that its functionality is impaired .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of not being harmed or injured or spoiled .
an elasticity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to recover its size and shape after deformation in any way .
a response quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's excessive reaction to a stimulus or an agent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the side relative to another entity .
a response quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's limited reaction to a stimulus or an agent .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being narrow ,  with the two opposite margins parallel .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter t .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter y .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits variation or change .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's power or force .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the back or upper surface of an organism relative to another entity .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a color consisting of grey color and low brightness .
a color consisting of blue hue and low saturation .
a color consisting of green hue and low saturation .
a color consisting of red hue and low saturation .
a color consisting of yellow hue and low saturation .
a color consisting of red and brown hue .
a fluorescence quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of emitting light during exposure to radiation from an external source .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality that is independent of the em wavelength range .
a scalar em radiation quality which obtains by the capacity of the bearer to scatter or reflect radiation .
a scalar optical quality which obtains by the magnitude of the light emitted by the bearer .
a radiation reflective quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the ratio of the energy of a wave reflected from its surface to the energy possessed by the wave striking the bearer's surface .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
an optical quality that is the mixture ,  purity or pattern of wavelengths of light perceived by the observer .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to varying or changing .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
an angle which is 90 degrees to another entity .
an angle which is 180 degrees to another entity .
a 2 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's two dimensional extent .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being symmetric about a plane running from its frontal end to its caudal end  ( head to tail )  ,  and has nearly identical right and left halves .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having equal proportion around a central point or axis .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack of distinct morphology .
a quality of a process which ends later than the natural end time .
a length quality which is equal to the length of any straight line segment that passes through the center of a circle and whose endpoints are on the circular boundary .
a density quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence exerted by the bearer's mass on a given area .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting low opacity .
a shape quality that obtains by virtue of the bearer having inward facing edges ;  having a surface or boundary that curves or bulges outward ,  as the exterior of a sphere .
a shape quality inhering in a cell by virtue of the bearer's ability to take on two or more different shapes during its life cycle .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a knob or knoblike protuberance .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having many wrinkles or creases on the surface .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being easily damaged or destroyed .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being small and resembling a point .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having deeply undulating edges forming lobes .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an irregularly toothed edge .
a physical quality that inheres in propagating wave  ( light or sound )  virtue of the bearer's change in direction when passing from one medium to another .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's number of homologous sets of chromosomes in the nucleus or primary chromosome - containing compartment of the cell ,  each set essentially coding for all the biological traits of the organism .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing more than two homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing three homologous sets of chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing four homologous sets of chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing a non - integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  due to extra or missing chromosomes .
a polyploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's chromosome number being increased by endomitosis and for which the degree of ploidy is proportional to the number of times that endomitosis has taken place .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing an integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  possibly excluding the sex - determining chromosomes .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality that arises by virtue of whether the bearer's disposition to differentiate into one or more mature cell types .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having the ability to go through numerous cycles of cell division while maintaining the undifferentiated state .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to form multiple differentiated cell types .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having thin ,  tail - like projections extending outwards from the cell body .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a long tapered rod .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by narrow lines or grooves ,  usually parallel .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking distinct structure .
a quality inhering in a population by virtue of the proportion of its members that are ill at a given time .
a duration which has regular start and / or end times .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's duration which has irregular start and / or end times .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being deficient in alertness or activity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating in a point or edge .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to rise or float in a fluid medium such as water or air .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's condition before death .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
a reflectivity quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to refract light .
an emergent molecular quality that arises by virtue of the bearer's disposition to exhibit molecular attraction to another entity in contact .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's decomposition into component parts .
a quality of a single process which describes the growth of an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce new life or offspring .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having connection or association with another entity .
a contractile quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's elastic tension that facilitate response to stimuli .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer includes all its components .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's components no longer being in a single contiguous unit .
a wholeness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being taken apart into its constituent parts .
a wholeness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's including all its components .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's being encrusted or impregnated with calcium carbonate  ( chebi:3311 )  .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's being hardened by the deposition of calcium into bone .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's cartilage quantities .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits an excessive accumulation of extracellular fluid .
an attachment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking connection or association with another entity .
a quality of a process inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to respond to stimulation .
a quality inhering in a cell's plasma membrane by virtue of the electrical potential difference across it .
a quality that is equal to the potential energy per unit charge associated with a static  ( time - invariant )  electric field ,  also called the electrostatic potential .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's all - encompassing ,  grotesque morphological defects .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the front of an organism .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the part of the body from which the tail arises .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the back or upper surface of an organism .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the abdomen of an organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude in respect to a related entity .
a depth which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in two copies .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being drawn in or pulled back from any given point .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being broken down ;  caved in .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an oblique or slanted direction .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's standing out or projecting beyond a surface or line .
absence of an organ ,  tissue or cell due to failure to develop from a primordium or precursor cell .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being thicker or more closely packed together ;  pressed tightly together .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's growing old ;  aging .
a cellular quality inhering in a cell by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to move spontaneously .
a growth quality of a process inhering in an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms by virtue of the bearer's reduced or increased growth .
a paedomorphic growth quality which is due to a reduced rate .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape being a v - shaped cut .
a reproductive quality inhering in the young of an animal by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a ball  ( a sphere whose equatorial diameter is equal to the polar diameter )  .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being gradually narrower or thinner toward one end .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking complete growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a monadic quality of continuant inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being intricate and compounded .
a complexity quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having few parts or being complicated or compound .
a complexity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being intricate and compounded .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being in contact with another entity ,  or of no longer being connected or joined with another entity .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being interrupted of its normal course .
a quality of a single physical entity that arises by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a functionality quality held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a disfunctional quality held by the bearer when the latter is unable to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a pattern inhering in a surface by virtue of the bearer's being marked by the presence of dots ,  punctures ,  points or pits .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking some outer layer .
an optical quality where light rays originating from a point on the object converge .
an optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking focus .
a spatiotemporal quality inhering in a cell .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior .
a cellular quality that exists by virtue of the disposition of the cell to adhere to other cells and molecules ,  through the emergent action of the molecular parts of the cell surface .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's having two or more hues or degrees of saturation .
a color pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's being marked with small spots ,  patches ,  or specks of hue or degree of saturation differing from that of the background .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity characterized by particles arranged such that their shape and volume are relatively stable .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
a sensitivity of a process which is higher than normal or average .
a sensitivity of a process which is lower than normal or average .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a functionality quality which is held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform additional or different function ( s )  .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having additional processual parts .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being spread out or scattered about or divided up .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being spread out or scattered about or divided up .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having fewer processual parts .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being made wider or larger in all dimensions .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's motion characteristic .
a pressure which is relatively low .
a pressure which is relatively high .
a permeability which is relatively high .
a permeability which is relatively low .
a physical quality that is the ability to contract or shrink .
a contractility which is relatively high .
a contractility which is relatively low .
a variability which is relatively low .
a variability which is relatively high .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to transmit of an entity through a medium .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits rate variation or change .
a variability of rate which is relatively high .
a variability of rate which is relatively low .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's coinciding spatially ,  partially or wholly with another entity .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a curvature which is relatively high .
a curvature which is relatively low .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming or resembling an arch .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's downward or backward or inward dimenision .
a depth quality which is relatively high .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being turned outward in placement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond a surface or boundary .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being relocated around an axis .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally expanded or increased in size .
a life span which is relatively high .
a life span which is relatively low .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in disarray ;  extremely disorderly .
a coating which is oily and slippery .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by ,  consisting of ,  or diversified with patches .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being scattered ;  spread irregularly ,  and at a distance from each other .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted in form .
a tonicity which is relatively high .
a tonicity which is relatively low .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of a part or parts of the bearer's being decreased in size due to reduction in tissue mass through wasting .
a functionality quality held by the bearer when the latter exhibits decreased ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a functional quality held by the bearer when the latter exhibits increased ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer has enough functionality .
a wholeness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacks enough functionality .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being gathered or tending to gather into a mass or whole .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distributed or spread over a considerable extent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the rear of an organism relative to another entity .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a short ,  stocky build .
a quality inhering into a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond its surface or boundary into the surface or boundary of another entity .
a quality inhering into a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond its surface or boundary and outwards in relation to the physical space occupied by another entity .
an 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the length of the closed curve of a circle .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the side .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a proper spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a improper spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
a rotation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the abdomen of an organism .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being damaged or destroyed .
an attachment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's connection or association with another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in close proximity and physically interacting with another entity .
a distribution which is relatively high .
a distribution which is relatively low .
structure quality that is the presence of closed epithelium bounded capsules containing one or more liquid or solid organism substances .
an efficiency which is relatively low .
an efficiency which is relatively high .
an efficiency quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having efficiency .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical distance of a point above or below a reference surface .
an elevation which is relatively high .
an elevation which is relatively low .
a contractility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability of contracting or being contracted .
a contractility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability of contracting or being contracted .
a viscosity which relatively high .
a viscosity which relatively low .
a fecundity which is relatively high .
a fecundity which is relatively low .
a photosensitivity which is relatively low .
a photosensitivity which is relatively high .
a sleep pattern which has regular start and / or end times .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting complete growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to lack activity .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting marked activity .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in two dimensions .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
an 1 - d extent quality inhering in two - dimensional bearer by virtue of being equal to the distance around it .
a perimeter which is relatively high .
a perimeter which is relatively low .
a diameter which is relatively large .
a diameter which is relatively small .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's parts having the arrangement which exhibits characteristics of solids .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking physically interaction with another entity .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a heterochronic growth quality inhering in an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms by virtue of the bearer's reduced growth .
a paedomorphic growth quality which is due to a delayed onset .
a heterochronic growth quality inhering in an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms by virtue of the bearer's increased growth .
a peramorphic growth quality which is due to an increased rate .
a peramorphic growth quality which is due to an earlier onset .
a conductivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to convey electricity .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing granules .
an age which is high relative to the normal or average .
an age which is low relative to the normal or average .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of some of it's members' inability to survive to reproduce .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location of features or characteristics along an axis .
a viability quality inhering in a population by virtue of some of it's members' ability to survive .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being extended on all sides of another entity simultaneously .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location of features or characteristics along the dorsal - ventral axis .
a flexibility which is relatively high .
a flexibility which is relatively low .
a strength which is relatively high .
a strength which is relatively low .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally developed ,  usually due to malnutrition .
a thickness quality which lacks pattern .
an intensity which is relatively high .
an intensity which is relatively low .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into two branches .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved outward .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided or broken up into parts or divisions .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved around an axis .
a density which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a shape resembling a dome .
a density which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on left side of from the a another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on right side of a another entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being wound in a continuous series of loops .
a coiling which is relatively high .
a coiling which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having multiple angles in its length .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting disturbance of its smoothness or regularity .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being compact or dense in arrangement .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being covered or partially covered with scales .
a sensitivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exposure to radiation .
a sensitivity to irradiation which is relatively low .
a sensitivity to irradiation which is relatively high .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being compact or dense in arrangement .
a grooved texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by one or more creases in a normally smooth surface .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's increasing over time .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's absence or closure of a normal body orifice or tubular passage .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no opening .
a female fertility which is relatively low .
a female fertility which is relatively high .
a male fertility which is relatively high .
a male fertility which is relatively low .
a fertility which is relatively low .
a fertility which is relatively high .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer with some kind of aperture or opening that is blocked or clogged .
a flow that is relatively low .
a fluid flow that is relatively high .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing acid  ( hydrogen ions )  .
an acidity which is relatively low .
an acidity which is relatively high .
a rhythm quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking rhythm lacking pattern .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being entwined and difficult to unravel .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being drawn together ,  compressed or squeezed physically .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved asymmetrically .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being fibrous tissue that replaces normal tissue destroyed by injury or disease .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting transient abnormal enlargement ,  not due to cell proliferation .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being out of its usual or proper place ,  or position .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits an excessive accumulation of cerebral spinal fluid .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a functionality quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being not completely paralysed .
a coordination which is relatively high .
a coordination which is relatively low .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having slow progressive course of indefinite duration .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a quadric surface in three dimensions obtained by rotating an ellipse about one of its principal axes .
a fluorescence quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting fluorescence which is self - induced .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormal and having a destructive effect on living tissue .
a shape quality inhering in a circular disk by virtue of the bearer's having a segment of another circle removed from its edge ,  so that what remains is a shape enclosed by two circular arcs of different diameters which intersect at two points  ( usually in such a manner that the enclosed shape does not include the center of the original circle )  .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resemblance to a cube  ( a 3 - d shape with a square cross section )  .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a consistently - sized round cross section .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having three angles .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of two curves ,  in opposite directions .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter u .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming two equal obtuse triangles with a short side in common .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gradually becoming thicker towards the end .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's disposition to having an affinity for water ;  it is readily absorbing or dissolving in water .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to having a strong affinity for water ;  tending to dissolve in ,  mix with ,  or be wetted by water .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having the border ,  edge ,  or outline cut into a series of segments of circles resembling a scallop - shell .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into three branches .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a continuous convex surface with an axis of symmetry and one axis longer than the other ;  egg - shaped .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical expression of sexual characteristics .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking of a three dimensional space surrounded by one or more anatomical structures and containing one or more anatomical substances .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a three dimensional space surrounded by one or more anatomical structures and containing one or more anatomical substances .
a circumference which is relatively high .
a circumference which is relatively low .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one direction only .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction approximating the shape of a circle .
the bearer of this quality has_part = n ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's participation in movement .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being like the surface of a compact mass of grapes .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's one part being layered over another connected part .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting movement in a circular course .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the state of bearer's mechanical ,  physical ,  and biochemical processes .
a physiological state which is characterized by periods of high - frequency high amplitude electrical activity in neuronal tissue .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the back or upper surface of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the abdomen of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the front of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the rear of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the side of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the middle of an organism .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape of features present on its surface or outer shell .
a fluorescence which is higher than normal .
a fluorescence which is lower than normal .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of a local accumulation of fluid underneath the surface of the bearer .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits shape variation or change .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's having or exhibiting variation its shape .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being roundish ,  a little inclining to be oblong .
a color consisting of yellow and orange hue .
a grooved texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by two or more parallel channels .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating abruptly in a little point .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating gradually in a rounded end .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of paired parts that alternately cross each other .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being narrowly triangular ,  wider at the apex and tapering toward the base .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits size variation or change .
a variability of size which is relatively low .
a variability of size which is relatively high .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's in which bundles of aligned anatomical fibers have become separated .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's touching another entity .
a curled quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's one edge of its surface being wholly rolled up in another .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having secondary branches joined together in a series of prominent arches .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being tapering gradually into a rigid point .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking sharp straight - edged teeth pointing to the apex .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having at least one salient angle on the margin .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being partly divided into a determinate number of regions .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gradually tapering to a slender point .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a three dimensional cavity with a narrow or no opening ,  and often containing an anatomical substance .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having four angles and four sides .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having many curves and turns .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its visibility .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality that inheres in an entire population or part of a population .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a complete three dimensional shape in which for every line connecting pair of points on the object is within the object .
a complete three dimensional shape in which there is a line connecting pair of points on the object that lies outside the object .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's bing full of small openings or gaps .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter's disposition the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells .
a texture quality that exists through a liquid cover on the surface of the bearer .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer forms a bundle of anatomical fibers ,  as of muscle or nerve .
a structural quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing hollow areas .
a growth quality of occurrent in which the growth of an organism ,  structure or group of organisms does not occur .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location of features or characteristics along an apical - basal axis .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location of features or characteristics along the anterior - posterior axis .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not increasing over time .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved or tilted such that the tip points upwards .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being unseparated into parts or divisions .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being on the same side in relation to another structure .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting deterioration of its structure .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer whose structure which does not deteriorate .
a diameter that is along the anterior - posterior axis .
an anterior - posterior diameter quality which is relatively small .
an anterior - posterior diameter quality which is relatively large .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on the side nearest to the axis of an organ or organism .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two or more cell populations that differ in genetic makeup .
an amount which normal .
an occurrence which is relatively high .
an occurrence which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being flattened along dorso - ventral axis .
a fragility which is relatively high .
a fragility which is relatively low .
an area which is relatively high .
an area which is relatively low .
a shape inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being elongated and cylindrical .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being arranged like rays or radii ;  radiating from a common center .
a solid configuration inhering in a material entity by virtue of its constituent atoms ,  molecules ,  or ions being arranged in an orderly repeating pattern extending in all three spatial dimensions .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's layered configuration .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a layered configuration .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a layered configuration .
a molecular quality that arises from the molecular attraction exerted between two atoms or compounds .
an affinity which is relatively high .
an affinity which is relatively low .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's movement .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned with multiple entities of the same type above and below .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an empty space or cavity within .
a broken quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being seperated into two contiguous wholes .
a broken quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being still one contiguous whole but structurally damaged such that in danger of become two or more .
having extra or fewer parts .
a morphology quality inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's exhbiting the morphological characteristics of a glandular epithelial cell .
a volume quality inhering in a degenerating cell by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting an increase in volume associated with cytoplasmic abnormalities .
an affinity inhering in a tissue constituent by virtue of the bearer exhibiting a molecular interaction for basic dyes under specific ph conditions .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to progress ,  invade surrounding tissues or metastasize .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to spread and invade distant tissues .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its stable specialization to a particular cell type .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of having not yet acquired a special structure of function .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of having changed from one fully differentiated state into another .
a cellular quality inhering in a cell that arises by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to grow and proliferate in number through cell division .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's penetrating or permeating another substance or area .
a compositional quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's infiltration by leukocytes ,  local edema and accumulation of plasma proteins .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting excessive discharge of blood from the blood vessels .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its lacking most of the cellular characteristics which would allow it to be fully differentiated .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its having most of the cellular characteristics of the tissue of origin .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its lacking few of the cellular characteristics which would allow it to be fully differentiated .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a hole or holes ,  especially a row or array of small holes .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing excess lipid .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing fibrin .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in more than two copies .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's structureresembling an irregular meshwork with cross - linking struts .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being composed of more than one identifiable entities .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing the form of a thin plate sheet or layer .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting a knot - like mass .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing bone .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to invade surrounding tissues .
a composition quaity inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing of or pertaining to fibrils ,  or nanoscale fibers .
a density quality which lacks pattern .
a rotation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the middle of an organism .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming or resembling an arch of an increased apical height .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the middle .
to bent or hang downwards .
an angular placement quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being changed in position in relation to another entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being split along the median axis .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being split on two side .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a improper spatial positioning towards an additional entity .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a improper spatial positioning away from an additional entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's changed direction of position towards another entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being out of its usual or proper place ,  or position around a central point or axis .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards to point of attachment or origin .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being free of curves ,  bends ,  or angles .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a molecular quality that inheres in a molecular entity by virtue of whether or not the molecular entity has a separation of electric charge which leads to the molecule having an electric dipole .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a teardrop .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being small or narrow in circumference or width in proportion to length or height .
a lobed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into or having two lobes .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having the shape of a scythe or sickle .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's loss of myelin sheath .
a quality inhering in a bearer that is shaped in the form of a fan .
an angular shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a single angle in its length giving the bearer the form of the letter v .
a 2 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having shape or form of half a circle .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located far  ( not close to )  in space in relation to another entity .
a notched shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a notched tip or edge .
a concave 3 - d shape that inheres in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's nearly )  symmetric shape wide at its ends and narrow in the middle ,  resembling the figure of number 8 .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape resembling falling drop .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's rate of change of the position .
a physical quality inhering in a fluid  ( liquid or gas )  by virtue of the amount of fluid which passes through a given surface per unit time .
a force which relative high .
a force which is relative low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking of substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
a degree of pigmentation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
a degree of pigmentation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
a degree of pigmentation quality that is relatively high .
a degree of pigmentation quality that is relative low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being flattened along the antero - posterior axis .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's surface becoming more extended in a plane .
texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked with one or more channels .
a cuscpidate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer possessing more than one cusp .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a point .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located near in space in relation to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's location within another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being arranged in a systematic fashion .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to exhibit marked activity .
a shape that inheres in a 3 dimensional entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located in a position equidistant from edges .
a structural quality of the collection or massing of one physical object within another physical object .
an increased number of physical objects that are accumulated within another physical object usually as a result of a failure to break down or remove objects in a timely manner .
an accumulation which is relative low .
multicolored quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being dappled with spots ,  patches ,  or blotches of different colors .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's participating in a joint with another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing a broad surface in articulation with another entity .
a cuscpidate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer possessing two cusps .
a mobility which is relative high .
a mobility which is relative low .
a physical quality that pertains by virtue of a pulling force that is directed away from the bearer and attempts to stretch or elongate the bearer .
branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of increasing the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of decreasing the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
an elasticity which is relatively high .
an elasticity which is relatively low .
absence of a tissue or organ due to failure to develop .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's underlying structure being capable of change .
a cellular motility which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a cellular motility which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a cylindrical shape that is hollow .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a convex quadrilateral is a parallelogram if and only if any one of the following statements are true: \ n1 .
a shape constituting a transition between a rectangle and a circle ;  a closed curve ,  of which the circle and ellipse are special cases ,  whose parametric equation is x = a .cos2 / rt ,  y = b .cos2 / rt
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the end of the process with respect to a reference process .
the temporal relation between the start of the process with respect to a reference process .
an orientation inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement at an angle .
an angle which is relatively high .
an angle which is relatively low .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting molecular attraction to another entity in contact .
a adhesivity which is relatively high .
a adhesivity which is relatively low .
a quality that inheres in a bearer in virtue of its realizing one of its functions .
a quality of an physical object that is currently realizing one of its functions .
a quality of a physical object that is currently realizing none of its functions .
an elongated raised margin or border .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's width being notably higher than its length .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably lower than its width .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being filled with air .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being not filed with air .
a length quality which is equal to the length of any straight line segment that passes from the center of a circle to any endpoint on the circular boundary .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the axis of an organism .
bounded structure filled with fluid .
a surface feature shape having numerous very small circular rounded projections or protuberances .
a shape that is in the form of a spade .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located at a right angle relative to another entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer touching another entity along a border or with a projecting part .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located or placed beneath the skin .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being composed of or possessing inorganic material .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being twisted or turned .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being aligned or positioned towards another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being thinner or more losely packed .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer bring gradually worn away .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of collagen .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of some aspect of the bearer extending past the position of another entity .
a morphological quality between two bearers inhering that one bearer is subject to change the nature ,  function ,  or condition of itself to become the other .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's increased rate of change of the position .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's decreased rate of change of the position .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to spontaneously arise .
a quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing only minor levels of ossification .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a slanting direction or position : neither perpendicular nor parallel .
positional quality in which an entity is located outside of another entity .
an angular shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a single angle in its length giving the bearer the form of an inverted letter v .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed anteriorly .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed anterolaterally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed distally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed dorsally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed laterally .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed medially .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a position that is directed posteriorly .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer flowing or coming together with another entity .
an occurrence quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a course that occurs occasionally .
a variability quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer having a variable number or count of an entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking parts or having a reduced form compared to fully formed entities .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being enclosed on all sides by another entity .
a shape quality inhering on a bearer by virtue of a bearer's shape lacking in pattern or uniformity ;  for example ,  it may have sides of different lengths ,  different curvatures ,  or unequal angles .
a structural quality inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer consisting of multiple structures lacking any physical connection to each other .
a physical quality of a process that is its spatial distribution .
absence due to a degenerative process .
the ability of a process to produce its output .
a decrease in the ability of a process to produce its output .
a increase in the ability of a process to produce its output .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which the bearers stands out or projects beyond a surface or line .
an increase in porosity .
an decrease in porosity .
quality ,  state ,  or degree of being stable .
an increase in stability .
a decrease in stability .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally anterior structures and missing some or all of what are normally posterior structures .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally dorsal structures and missing some or all of what are normally ventral structures .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally posterior structures and missing some or all of what are normally anterior structures .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally ventral structures and missing some or all of what are normally dorsal structures .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally placed or arranged .
fibrosis is the formation of excess fibrous connective tissue in an organ or tissue in a reparative or reactive process .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by interruptions or gaps .
a distance traveled in a specific time that is relatively high .
a distance traveled in a specific time that is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively normal .
a quality of an object that has a value that is normal or average .
an acidity which is relatively normal .
a adhesivity which is relatively normal or average .
an affinity which is relatively normal or average .
an age which is relatively normal or average .
a behavioural quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting normal or average activity .
a cellular motility which is normal or average .
a coiling which is normal or average .
a concentration which is relatively normal or average .
a contractility which is relatively normal or average .
a coordination which is relatively normal or average .
a curvature which is relatively normal or average .
a distance which is relatively normal or average .
an efficiency which is relatively normal or average .
an elasticity which is relatively normal or average .
a fecundity which is relatively normal or average .
a female fertility which is relatively normal or average .
a fertility which is relatively normal or average .
a flexibility which is relatively normal or average .
a fluid flow which is relatively normal or average .
a fluorescence which is relatively normal or average .
a force which is relatively normal or average .
a fragility which is relatively normal or average .
a life span which is relatively normal or average .
a male fertility which is relatively normal or average .
a mass which is relatively normal or average .
a density which is relatively normal or average .
a mobility which is relatively normal or average .
a permeability which is relatively normal or average .
a photosensitivity which is relatively normal or average
a degree of pigmentation quality which is relatively normal or average
a position which is relatively normal or average
an angle which is relatively normal or average
a distribution which is relatively normal or average
an elevation which is relatively normal or average
a pressure which is relatively normal or average
a sensitivity to irradiation which is relatively normal or average
a size quality which is relatively normal or average
an area which is relatively normal or average
a depth quality which is relatively normal or average
a height which is relatively normal or average
a length quality which is relatively normal or average
a diameter which is relatively normal or average
an anterior - posterior diameter which is relatively normal or average
a perimeter which is relatively normal or average
a circumference which is relatively normal or average
a thickness which is relatively normal or average
a volume which is relatively normal or average
a width which is relatively normal or average
a speed which is relatively normal or average
a strength which is relatively normal or average
a tonicity which is relatively normal or average
a quality of aprocess that has a value that is normal or average .
a variability which is relatively normal or average
a variability of rate which is relatively normal or average
a variability of size which is relatively normal or average
a velocity which is relatively normal or average
a viscosity which is relatively normal or average
a duration quality of a process which is relatively normal .
an occurrence which is relatively normal .
a frequency which is relatively normal .
a sensitivity of a process which is relatively normal .
the number of repeated events per unit time ,  occurring in a repeating series .
the rate of output of a continuous process .
a spatial distribution of a process in which the process occupies a smaller length ,  area ,  or volume than the reference process .
a spatial distribution of a process in which the process occupies a greater length ,  area ,  or volume than the reference process .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that lines organs and supports the mucosa ,  as well as joins the mucosa to the bulk of underlying smooth muscle .
nervous structures including ganglia outside of the central nervous system .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa [ wp ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory airway .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body which consists of the cranial and pharyngeal regions .
a multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer and a connective tissue layer .
an eye with one concave chamber .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
a tube shaped multi - tissue structure lined with epithelial cells that collects secretions and routes them to their destination .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
zebrafish anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
the lung vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs [ go ]  .
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium ;  it contains basement membrane composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  proteoglycans ,  and fibronectin
the epithelial layer of the lung .
a tube in the respiratory system .
structure derived from foregut that becomes a lung [ go ]  .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
space within the oral region .
the pair of anatomical structures comprised of a left lung and right lung .
organ that functions in gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
a complex mixture of cells suspended in a liquid matrix that delivers nutrients to cells and removes wastes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
the wall of the digestive tract .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
a mucosa that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory airway .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
tissue that surrounds the lens nucleus
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are serous secreting cells .
an anatomical wall that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical group that has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
anatomical structure that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium that consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one or more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium that consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
the outer layer of the embryo derived from the epiblast .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
anterior part of the embryonic alimentary canal formed as an invagination of the ectoderm ;  the future mouth .
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
blood pumping organ composed of four components: sinus venosus ,  atrium ,  cardiac ventricle and bulbus arteriosus .
cavitated compound organ which is comprised of gray and white matter and surrounds the cerebral ventricular system .
multi - tissue structure that forms the transparent front part of the eye ,  covering the iris ,  pupil and anterior chamber .
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
multi - tissue structure that contains the retinal neural layer and the retinal pigmented epithelium ,  and develops from the optic cup .
cavitated compound organ that consists of the neural retina ,  lens ,  cornea and iris and is the sensory apparatus of the visual system .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
system responsible for the exchange of gases across the gill membranes .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
anatomical system that processes ingested substances .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
connective tissue in which fat is stored .
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
a regulatory system of the body that consists of neurons and neuroglial cells .
the brain and spinal cord .
nervous system responsible for transmitting sensory stimuli .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
portion of tissue that is the cavity - containing primordium of the central nervous system ,  developing from the neural rod in the late segmentation period .
a zone of skin that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
it ascends beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius ,  distributing branches to it ,  and to the neighboring muscles and lymph glands in the neck ,  and anastomosing with the superficial branch of the descending branch of the occipital artery .
anatomical space in which the heart is located and is surrounded by the pericardium .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
an epicardial layer that lines a cardiac ventricle
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of organism substance that is a clear fluid that occupies the space in synovial joints .
muscle tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells ,  forming the muscles of the heart [ zfa , modified ]  .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
a zone of skin that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an articular capsule  ( or joint capsule )  is an envelope surrounding a synovial joint .
a bilaterally paired branched artery that originates from the aortic arches and divides into and includes as parts the internal and external carotid arteries [ cjm ]  .
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
one of two jugular veins that collect the blood from the brain ,  the superficial parts of the face ,  and the neck .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
a branch of the external carotid artery that supplies structures of the face .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart .
vessels that carry blood to the heart .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the right lung .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the left lung .
the anterior facial vein  ( facial vein )  commences at the side of the root of the nose ,  and is a direct continuation of the angular vein where it also receives a small nasal branch .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pharynx .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
multi - tissue structure that consists of pigmented stroma and is connected to a sphincter muscle and a dilator muscle which open and close the pupil located in the center of the iris .
portion of tissue comprised of four to six layers of nonkeratinized ,  stratified squamous cells and represents approximately 60% of the thickness of the cornea .
multi - tissue structure that composes the opaque fibrous outer layer of the eye .
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
a portion of tissue that contains the choroid vasculature .
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
any of the layers that make up the retina [ mp ]  .
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is outer most layer of the lens
surface structure that is one of the fleshy folds surrounding the opening of the mouth .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
the brain region between the forebrain anteriorly and the hindbrain posteriorly ,  including the tectum dorsally and the midbrain tegmentum ventrally .
a segment of the developing hindbrain .
brain structure that is located ventrocaudal to the cerebellum and just anterior to the spinal cord and contains the sensory and motor nuclei of six cranial nerves .
an endothelium that is part of a capillary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vein  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
ventral part of the midbrain ,  separated from the hindbrain by the isthmus [ isbn:0471888893 ]  .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord .
portion of organism substance that is the liquid matrix of blood .
multi - tissue structure part of the blood vasculature formed by the anastomosis of capillaries .
multi - tissue structure part of the blood vasculature .
any of the tubular multi - tissue structures through which blood circulates in the body .
microvessel of the blood circulation system lined with vascular endothelial cells .
epithelium that is the innermost layer of the cornea and is comprised of a monolayer of polygonal cells .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
pulmonary veins are blood vessels that transport blood from the lungs to the heart [ go ]  .
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
muscle tissue that contains fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations .
a systemic artery that supplies the lung with with oxygenated blood .
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism .
anatomical structure that is part of the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells .
the truncus arteriosus and bulbus cordis are divided by the aorticopulmonary septum .
swellings of tissue present between the endocardial and myocardial cell layers that will give rise to the interstitial cells of the cardiac valves .
heart region collecting blood from the paired common cardinal veins and delivering to the atrium .
a collagenous layer of the skin subjacent to the epidermis and covering the hypodermis .
a layer separating the inner face of the dermis from the subjacent muscle cells .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the right side of the heart .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
cavitated compound organ that receives blood flow from the atrium and delivers blood to the body via the aorta .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac septum that divides the left and right atria of the heart .
the post - cranial structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the head and anterior to the post - vent region .
sensory system responsible for the perception of light .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer that lines the lumen of the heart .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
the outer protective barrier that separates the animal from its aquatic environment .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
is a joint that is located at the point of contact of articulating bones allowing movement .
the part of the coelemic cavity lumen that is enclosed by the walls of the thorax .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
multi - tissue structure that has as its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain .
the atrial part of middle layer of the heart ,  comprised of involuntary muscle
the ridge - shaped grey matter of the spinal cord that extends longitudunally through the center of each half of the spinal cord ,  and are largely or entirely composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
rod - like principal supportive element of the embryo and larva ,  present in the midline just ventral to the neural tube ,  and differentiating during the segmentation period to form large vacuolated epithelial cells and a surrounding sheath of fibrous and elastic layers .
undifferentiated mesodermal components of early trunk or tail segments or metameres ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms myotomes ,  sclerotomes and perhaps dermatomes .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
a cell population arising from the dorsolateral aspect of the central nervous system primordium during the segmentation period ,  and later migrating along stereotyped pathways to give rise to a diverse and well - defined set of cell types including pigment cells ,  peripheral neurons and glia ,  and head cartilage .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
external layer of the heart .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
serous membrane which is divided into parietal and visceral serous pericardium .
membrane organ which is attached to the pericardial sac proper and the central tendon of diaphragm and is continuous with the pretracheal fascia .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
system responsible for generating hematopoietic cells .
a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels .
serous membrane that surrounds the heart .
parietal serous membrane which is part of the pericardium and forms the outer layer of the pericardial sac .
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelium that lines the oral cavity .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium and is attached to the myocardium [ fma ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
arteries that supply the spinal cord .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
connective tissue composed of elastic fibers .
the middle layer of an artery or vein .
the innermost layer of a blood vessel which is a lining of endothelial cells facing the lumen [ kardong ]  .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
one of a series of paired bony or cartilaginous arches that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
the outermost epidermal layer covering the fish at embryonic stages ;  derived from the evl and thought to eventually be replaced by the superficial stratum of the epidermis .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
nests of developing blood cells arising late in the segmentation period from the intermediate mass ,  and located in the anterior - ventral tail ,  just posterior to the yolk extension .
axial hypoblast located anterior to the chorda mesoderm ;  the polster is its most anterior region .
region of the mesoderm that is located along the rostral - caudal axis of the embryo .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye .
ectodermal primordium of the lens of the eye .
portion of tissue that is the earliest recognizable dorsal ectodermal primordium of the central nervous system present near the end of gastrulation before infolding to form the neural keel ;  consists of a thickened pseudostratified epithelium .
mesoderm which is lateral to the neural tube on both sides .
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardial precursors laterally .
portion of somite that gives rise to skeletal elements .
neural crest that is part of the head .
organism subdivision which is the collection of anatomical structures on the body surface .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
a mesh - like cell arrangement ,  less compact than an epithelium .
the 6th pharyngeal arch .contributes to the development of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
skeletal system that is part of the head ,  including the splanchnocranium ,  chondrocranium ,  and dermatocranium .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
epithelium lining the pharynx consisting largely of simple columnar epithelium with a short segment  ( 1mm )  of stratified squamous epithelium on the ventral side .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
a mesothelium that is part of a pericardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the iinferior labial artery  ( inferior labial branch of facial artery )  arises near the angle of the mouth ;  it passes upward and forward beneath the triangularis and ,  penetrating the orbicularis oris ,  runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane .
an artery that is part of a thoracic cavity [ cjm ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the lower lip .
a vein that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a venule that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arteriole that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a cornea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of the arterial system .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skin gland that is part of a camera - type eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense connective tissue which contains predominantly elastic fibers and is found in the tunica media of the aorta wall .
the type of heart connective tissue found in the endocardial layer that consists mainly of elastic fibers .
an elastic tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a circulatory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
elastic tissue layer that lines a blood vessel layer .
elastic tissue that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the middle layer of the aorta wall ,  containing the smooth muscle layer and elastic fibers .
the innermost layer of the aorta ,  containing the endothelium and an inner elastic membrane .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a neural tube .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a spinal cord .
portion of the posterior neural plate that gives rise to the spinal cord neural keel .
an anatomical cavity that has the potential to develop into a coelemic cavity lumen .
the part of the coelom in the embryo between the somatopleuric and splanchnopleuric mesoderm ;  the principal body cavities of the trunk  ( thoracic ,  abdominal ,  and pelvic )  arise from this embryonic part of the coelom
portion of retina composed of  all the neural tissues in the retina .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
any endothelium that has the quality of being cylindrical  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
ducts that transport enzymes between organs in the digestive system .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
the slender connective tissue fiber in the extracellular matrix of skin tissue that is composed of microfibrils and amorphous elastin and is characterized by great elasticity
the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
the single layer of epithelial cells that lines the early neural tube and develops into the nervous system and into the neural crest cells
the layer of undifferentiated ,  proliferating cells that line the neural tube lumen that is the immediate transformation of the germinal neuroepithelium
the layer of glia and differentiating neurons that forms as a second layer around the germinal neuroepithium ;  as this develops it comes to lie between the ventricular and marginal layers and includes the basal and alar plates .
the outermost layer of the neural tube that consists of axons from the developing mantle layer and will form the white matter
anatomical cluster that is a anteriolateral part of the cranium and structurally supports the eye .
an anatomical structure that is an opening or tube that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
portion of tissue that is comprised of neuroepithelium which has pinched off from the anterior neural keel and will form the optic cup .
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
cavitated compound organ that will become the adult heart following looping morphogenesis and valve formation .
the outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract
the outflow tract is the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the arteries
vein of heart that drains the myocardium
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
an embryonic group of progenitor cells that forms from an outpouching of the septum transversum near the venous pole of the heart and gives rise to the epicardium
a thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo ,  forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions .
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue located in the wall of the aorta
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pericardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
epithelial sheet on the external surface of the somite that gives rise to trunk ,  muscle and dermis .
the migrating myocardial precursors of the heart rudiment form a cone like structure between 19 .5 hpf and 22 hpf ,  and eventually telescope out into the primitive heart tube at 24hpf .
dense connective tissue that separates the atria from the ventricles and provides physical support for the heart .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the embryonic structure that gives rise to the corneal ectoderm
the first pharyngeal arch ,  also known as the mandibular arch ,  forms the jaw .
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer ,  6 to 9 um thick ,  lying between the basal lamina of the outer layer of stratified epithelium and the substantia propria of the cornea ;  it is considered to be a basement membrane .
an embryo at the neurula stage .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of skeletal muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a interatrial septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a cardiac septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a myocardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that functions in circulation and  has as its parts the heart and vasculature .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains blood that is actively transported around the organism .
an eye that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the arterial system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all arteries .
an artery of the systemic circulation ,  which is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart ,  to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
the vascular endothelium that lines blood vasculature .
an anatomical wall that is part of an aorta ,  enclosing the luminal space .
the outermost layer of the aorta wall ,  containing connective tissue and collagen and elastic fibers
the muscular portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
the costocervical trunk arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery ,  behind the scalenus anterior on the right side ,  and medial to that muscle on the left side .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a transient fetal dilation of the distal  ( or cranial )  heart tube located where the arterial trunk joins the ventral roots of the aortic arches
the jugular veins are veins that bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
a metameric segment of the central nervous system .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an organ subunit that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the gastrula stage .
organ entity that is typically involved in mechanical support and may have different skeletal tissue compositions at different stages .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
a submucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a cardiac ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
an endothelium that is part of the cardiovascular system .
a gland that is part of a eye .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the inner  ( or splanchnic )  layer adheres to the endoderm ,  and with it forms the splanchnopleure [ wp ]  .
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
the mass of tissue made up of mesenchymal cells in the lung .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
a mucosa that is part of a lower lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a hemolymphoid system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
an intermediate stage in the development of the central nervous system present during the segmentation period ;  the neural rod is roughly cylindrical in shape ,  forms from the neural keel ,  and is not yet hollowed out into the neural tube .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a hindbrain and adjacent_to a spinal cord .
a hole in a tube [ go ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
a bud is a protrusion that forms from an epithelial sheet by localized folding .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
an organ or element that part of the dorsum of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endocardium that is part of a interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a bulbus cordis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
mesoderm that will give rise ,  along with cranial neural crest cells ,  to connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in the head .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata and a portion of the fourth ventricle ;  as well as the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  ,  vagus nerve  ( cn x )  ,  accessory nerve  ( cn xi )  ,  hypoglossal nerve  ( cn xii )  ,  and a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cn viii )  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
the endothelial lining of the endocardium .
an pulmonary artery endothelium is an epithelium that lines the pulmonary artery [ go ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of oral region .
a ventricular outflow tract is a portion of either the left ventricle or right ventricle of the heart through which blood passes in order to enter the great arteries .
an outflow tract that is part of a aorta .
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
the dilated structure that is lined by endothelial cells and located at the arterial pole of the heart just above  ( distal to )  the truncus arteriosus in mammalian embryos ;  it is the primordial vascular channel from which the aortic arches  ( and eventually the dorsal aortae )  arise ;  the aortic sac is homologous to the ventral aorta of gill - bearing vertebrates
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
a neural tube lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere .
a pair of lateral diverticula just over the liver rudiment representing the primordia of the lungs ,  formed by the floor of the foregut just anterior to the liver diverticulum .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells bounded anteriorly by the capsule of the lens and posteriorly by the lens cortex .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a left lung .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lens vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a optic eminence .
a venous system that is part of a hindbrain .
the outermost layer of a blood vessel ,  composed mainly of fibrous tissue .
a tunica intima that is part of a artery .
an outermost connective tissue covering of an organ ,  vessel ,  or other structure [ wp ]  .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
an outflow tract that is part of a cardiac atrium .
anteriosuperior ,  smooth - walled portion of the cavity of the right ventricle ,  beginning at the supraventricular crest and terminating in the pulmonary trunk
anterosuperior fibrous portion of the left ventricle that connects to the ascending aorta .
outflow part of atrium which consists of wall and cavity of the outflow part of right atrium and the tricuspid valve .
an outflow tract of atrium that is part of a left atrium .
the laminar structure of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
the wall of the heart that separates the right atrium and left ventricle ;  and is located just above the septal cusp of the tricuspid valve
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
a midline cellular cord formed from the migration of mesenchymal cells from the primitive knot
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
an artery that connects two larger arteries .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a zone of skin .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
swollen region of the anterior foregut ,  posterior to the mouth and anterior to the liver ;  its walls form the jaws and gills .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
a myocardium that is part of a left ventricle of a heart .
a myocardium that is part of a right ventricle of a heart .
presumptive structure fated to become endoderm .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
presumptive structure at the animal poll of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm via the epiblast .
presumptive structure fated to become mesoderm .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a epithelium .
the line where the cornea and the sclera meet .
loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs .
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a digestive tract .
the thick ,  high squamous - stratified epithelium that covers the lips .
an epithelium characterised by its most superficial layer consisting of squamous epithelial cells .
the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels  by the process of tubulogenesis .
capillaries that innervate the subtrabecular layer of the heart .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
a mesothelium that is part of a serous pericardium .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
a tunica media that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a vein .
a tunica intima that is part of a vein .
a tunica media that is part of a vein .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the hindbrain .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the sinus venosus .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the endocardium .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
embryonic structure part of the mesoderm fated to become segmental plate .
region of the gastrula which gives rise to the neural plate .
portion of presumptive mesoderm fated to become paraxial mesoderm .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the pharyngeal region .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
an epithelial tube that is open at one end only .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
a thin ,  loose vascular connective tissue that makes up the membranes surrounding joints and the sheaths protecting tendons  ( particularly flexor tendons in the hands and feet )  where they pass over bony prominences .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a synovial joint .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
a gland that is part of a epidermis .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
an endothelium that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
a head that is part of a embryo .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all pulmonary arteries and all pulmonary veins .
anatomical cluster that is the regional skeletal system of the jaws ,  hyoid and branchial arches .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
vein that drains left lung and returns blood to the heart .
vein that drains right lung and returns blood to the heart .
endocardium that is part of the right atrium .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing left lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing right lung .
portion of  neural plate that gives rise to the midbrain neural keel .
portion of posterior neural plate  that gives rise to the hindbrain neural keel .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain .
any endocardium that is part of the right ventricle of the heart .
any endocardium that is part of the left ventricle of the heart .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a stomodeum .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
the many - lobed berry cluster of cells that is the terminous of a gland where the secretion is produced is acinar in form .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the majority of the mesodermal component of the right ventricle ,  arterial pole  ( outflow tract )  and venous pole  ( inflow tract )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a myelencephalon .
any portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of the conducting system of heart or the purkinje fibers .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a blood vessel .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
an anatomical boundary that corresponds to some physical discontinuity .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
portion of  neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
an endothelium that is part of a sclera .
mesenchyme surrounding the developing optic cup which develops into the sclera .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
multi - tissue structure that consists of the structures that develop into the retina and lens .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
mesenchyme that develops_from a splanchnopleure .
the integrated unit  ( of the eye )  that consists of the conjunctiva ,  the corneal surface ,  and the ocular mucosal adnexa including the lid margins and the meibomian gland openings ,  the lacrimal glands and the lacrimal drainage system ,  all which are critical to maintain ocular surface integrity and provide protection from external antigens and pathogenic microorganisms .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
a simple columnar epithelium that looks stratified but is not ,  because its cells are arranged with their nuclei at different levels .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
a portion of tissue that consists of a tube composed of epithelial cells that connects larger vessels .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
the part of the trunk that is in the dorsum [ cjm ]  .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
an anatomical junction that divides and overlaps with and atrium and a ventricle in the heart .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
an acinus that is part of a exocrine gland .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of aorta tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of pulmonary tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
anatomical space ,  part of the trunk that contains the pericardial and pleuroperitoneal cavities .
anatomical system that consists of the integumental system plus all mucosae and submucosae .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
an artery of the neck
the deep cervical artery  ( profunda cervicalis )  is an artery of the neck .
a layer of tissue between the muscularis and serosa .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system venous blood vessel .
the sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye ;  the sclera is opaque ,  and constitutes the posterior five - sixths of the tunic ;  the cornea is transparent ,  and forms the anterior sixth .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
a vein that drains a lip .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
the secretory unit of a serous gland .
anatomical cavity that is the lumen of the skull and contains the brain .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the space that surrounds an organism .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
vascular endothelium found in blood vessels of the blood - brain - barrier .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
a tubular passage that extends from the primitive pit into the head process during the early stages of embryonic development in mammals .
fluid contained within the notochordal canal
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
great vessels is a term used to refer collectively to the large vessels that bring blood to and from the heart .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive midbrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive spinal cord
is a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
visceral intrapericardial fat contiguous with the myocardial surface .
a gland that is typically found in or near the orbital region ,  in or around either the medial or lateral canthi ,  and is typically associated with secretions onto the eyeball or associated ducts .
an eye consisting of multiple light - sensing organs
anatomical surface separating somites .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
luminal space of the right ventricle of the heart .
luminal space of the left atrium of the heart .
luminal space of the left ventricle of the heart .
luminal space of the right atrium of the heart .
the external part of the developing pharynx that is made of ectoderm .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is part of gray matter .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower lip .
a boundary delimiting a rhombomere .
any portion of submucosa that lines the digestive tract .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
an exocrine gland that is part of a integumental system .
single layer of a laminar structure ,  identified by different density ,  arrangement or size of cells and processes arranged in flattened layers or lamina [ cumbo ]  .
serous membrane layer that is adjacent to and lines an organ .
serous membrane layer that lines to a body cavity .
a specific region of the foregut into the area in which the lung will develop .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
any substance in the body or expelled from the body that is in a gaseous state .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of air .
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
endocardium that is part of the left atrium .
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a cluster of cells ,  largely surrounded by a morphological boundary .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
any organ component layer that consists of smooth muscle tissue .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any material entity that is located in the digestive tract .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
the part of the circulatory system that lies within the subcutaneous tissue layers close to the surface of the skin .
any of the veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the subcutaneous tissue layers .
the part of the circulatory system that lies deep beneath the subcutaneous tissue layers away from the surface of the skin .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood far beneath the skin usually accompanying an artery .
any chamber of the left side of the heart
any chamber of the right side of the heart
the parts of the orbital region that are outside of the the eyeball ,  including the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
adipose tissue surrounding the heart .
fat deposits in the mediastinum outside the parietal pericardium  .
adipose tissue on the surface of the organs within the pleuroperitoneal cavity .
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
a bodily fluid that is located in the coelom .
any gland that is part os the respiratory system .
a notochord that has persisted beyond the embryonic stage .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of aorta .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
a mucosa that is part of a lip region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
wall of organ which has as its parts the endocardium ,  myocardium  ,  epicardium ,  and the cardiac septum ,  surrounded by the pericardial sac proper and is continuous with the walls of the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
left part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
right part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
the visible division between epiblast and hypoblast in the gastrula .
small but distinctive epithelial sac containing fluid ,  located midventrally posterior to the yolk cell or its extension ,  and transiently present during most of the segmentation period .
muscle precursor cell that is adjacent to the notochord and part of the presomitic mesoderm .
anterior portion of the axial hypoblast .
the anterior round region of the yolk cell present after the yolk extension forms during the segmentation period .
extension of the dorsal aorta in the post - vent region .
ganglion which is located in the head .
principal unpaired ,  median artery of the trunk ,  leading from the paired roots  ( radices )  of the dorsal aorta to the caudal artery .
the outer of the two layers of the blastoderm that form during gastrulation ,  corresponding to primitive ectoderm during gastrulation and to the definitive ectoderm after gastrulation .
a circumscribed swelling ,  includes the pineal primordium that appears late in the segmentation period in the dorsal midline of the diencephalon .
multi - tissue structure that is the ventral - most aspect of the developing neural tube .
a group of cells that migrate at the leading edge of shield during gastrulation but do not involute .
layer of the retina that contains the ganglion cell bodies .
a transversely oriented set of cells located deep to the evl on the pericardial membrane ,  especially prominent during pharyngula period because of the brightly refractile cytoplasmic granules  ( containing hatching enzymes )  of the principal cells of the gland .
skeletal system of paired fins .
portion of tissue that is a patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium in the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
portion of tissue that arises from the arise from the lateral edges of the shield and is located immediately ventral to the notochord .
multi - tissue structure which is the largest portion of diencephalon and is ventrally located .
a sensory system on the surface of the fish ,  consisting of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  distributed in discrete lines over the body surface .
portion of tissue that is a transparent ,  biconvex structure located in the eye through which light is focused .
system responsible for the production and movement of bile .
embryonic structure ,  the edge of the blastoderm .
surface structure that will develop into one of the median fins .
the boundary between the mesencephalon and the rhombencephalon .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 1 .
portion of somite 14 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
organ that is the specialized structure of the face that contains olfactory neurons .
neurogenic placode that gives rise to the olfactory neurons that which convey odor information to the cns .
lumen of optic stalk .
epithelial sac present beside the fifth rhombomere ;  forms the semicircular canals dorsally and the otolith organs ventrally ,  and houses the acoustico - vestibular sensory epithelia  ( maculae )  of hair cells .
actinotrichium which is part of the dorsal fin fold .
the hatching gland rudiment at the time it underlies the forebrain during the early segmentation period .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the forebrain .
portion of tissue that is the outer layer of the optic cup and will become the retinal pigmented epithelium .
an inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into part of the anal passage .
intermediate mesoderm that is located beneath the anterior somites and gives rise to the pronephros and pronephric duct .
cluster of cells in the neural plate that have the potential to become neuroblast .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 5
embryonic structure that is a local accumulation of cells along the germ ring .
anteriormost undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 5 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 26 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
the swim bladder is a double - chambered organ located in the coelom and used to maintain buoyancy and may function as an acoustic resonator .
actinotrichium which is part of the ventral fin fold .
the anterior and dorsal forebrain neuromere .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the pectoral fin bud .
outermost monolayer of cells surrounding the embryo that become very flattened in the blastula and give rise to the periderm .
peripheral layer of the yolk cell including nuclei and non - yolky cytoplasm .
portion of tissue which is a slender ,  horny ,  flexible ,  unsegmented fibril ,  which strengthens the embryonic fin fold .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the dorsal fin .
notochord rudiment .
organism subdivision running along the rostral - caudal axis of the early embryo .
cell that arises during cleavage and is partially cleaved ,  and located at the blastodisc margin prior to collectively forming the yolk syncytial layer  ( ysl )  in the midblastula .
skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the gill arches ;  the last five of the set of seven pharyngeal arches ;  the numbering system can be confusing ;  generally branchial arch #1 is the first gill arch ,  or the third pharyngeal arch ,  but some authors do not follow this convention .
blood vasculature comprised of the cardinal veins .
artery originating at the junction of the first two aortic arches and supplying the anterior brain .
anatomical cluster which consists of rapidly dividing cells .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the brain .
brain structure derived from the anterior hindbrain ,  and perhaps including posterior midbrain .
the more posterior and ventral of two forebrain neuromeres ,  the other being the telencephalon ;  major derivatives are the eye cups ,  the brain pretectal region ,  the thalamus ,  hypothalamus ,  and epithalamus  ( including the habenula and epiphysis )  .
region of the median fin fold that develops into the dorsal fin .
a cellular ,  multilayered epithelium derived from the ectoderm .
the posterior elongated region of the yolk cell that forms during the segmentation period .
surface structure involved in locomotion .
the most anterior region the brain including both the telencephalon and diencephalon .
fluid - filled brain cavity .
embryonic structure that forms as a thickened annulus at the blastoderm rim .
the alimentary or digestive tract ,  and associated organs .
portion of tissue that is a patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium in the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
the inner of the two layers of the blastoderm that forms during gastrulation and give rise to the definitive mesoderm and endoderm .
a compound organ which is an endocrine gland located ventral to the diencephalon and derived from mixed neuroectodermal and non - neuroectodermal origin .
retinal layer that contains the interneurons ,  the horizontal ,  bipolar and amacrine cells .
ganglion that develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate a lateral line .
solid compound organ with three lobes that has many functions including bile production ,  blood detoxification ,  the production of critical plasma proteins and clotting factors ,  complement proteins  and the storage of many substances ,  such as lipids ,  amino acids ,  iron ,  and glycogen .
embryonic primordium that develops into the liver .
neuromast that is part of the mandibular lateral line .
centra are represented by mineralized ,  calcified ,  or ossified portions that surround the notochord .
neuromast that is part of the otic lateral line .
portion of tissue that provides a pathway for axon migration from the retina .
primordium of the ear epithelium before it hollows into the otic vesicle ,  present beside the hindbrain rudiment in the mid - segmentation period .
the pancreas is an organ composed of endocrine and exocrine glandular tissue that produce hormones and digestive enzymes .
fin bud that develops into the pectoral fin .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell receptor segments reside .
a monolayer of pigmented epithelium covering the neural retina ;  develops from the outer of the two layers of the optic cup .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the brain .
duct of the embryonic kidney ,  present bilaterally ventral to the somites and leading to the cloacal chamber .
the embryonic kidney ,  present at the level of the third somite ,  is composed of two glomeruli fused at the midline ,  two pronephric tubules ,  and paired bilateral pronephric ducts that modify the composition of the blood filtrate before delivering it to the cloaca for excretion .
posteriormost hindbrain segment or neuromere .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment 20 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
posteriormost undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
this centrum may be formed via the fusion of the terminal centrum and half - centrum .
multi - tissue structure that is the ventral part of the midbrain and develops from the basal plate .
fluid - filled brain cavity .
the ectodermal rudiment of the trigeminal ganglion ,  distinguishable during much of the segmentation period .
system that removes and collects metabolic waste from the blood while maintaining ion homeostasis .
multi - tissue structure that is a paired nucleus located in the lateral expansion of the dorsal hypothalamic zone .
patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium that is associated with the lateral semicircular canal .
median fin skeleton that is located posterior to the anus .
macula that is located in the developing anterior inner ear ,  and gives rise to the macula utricle .
median elements that are ossified within copulae and are not assigned to a specific branchial arch number .
muscle that is part of pharyngeal arches 3 - 7 which are also known as the branchial arches .
multi - tissue structure that consists of three layers and through which the blood exits the heart .
cerebellar tract that consists of efferent fibers from the purkinje cells to the neurons of the vestibular nuclei in the hindbrain .
cranial nerve which enters the brain between cranial nerves viii and ix ;  contains afferents and sensory efferents to the posterior lateral line ganglion and middle ganglion .
peripheral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon that has migrated to the periphery of the brain .
portion of the fish's body that is posterior to the vent and anterior to the caudal fin .
cranial nerve root which is part of the abducens nerve  ( cn - vi )  and is located at the level of the intermediate reticular formation .
vein in the tail returning blood from the trunk and tail to the heart ,  leads directly into the posterior cardinal vein in the posterior trunk .
telencephalic nucleus which is the most caudally located part of the dorsal telencephalon and surrounds the central zone of dorsal telencephalon .
diencephalic nucleus which is located in the caudal portion of the dorsal thalamus ,  ventral to the dorsal caudal thalamic nucleus .
multi - tissue structure that is the central part of the pretectum .
transversely oriented bone connecting the occipital region of the skull dorsally and pectoral girdle ventrally ;  appears near the end of embryogenesis .
anterior commissure which abuts the preoptic region dorsally .
bilaterally paired longitudinal vein ;  the anterior cardinal returns blood from the head ,  and the posterior cardinal returns it from the trunk ;  these two vessels join together on each side as the common cardinal vein  ( duct of cuvier ;  misnamed the vitelline vein )  that leads across the yolk cell to the heart's sinus venosus .
brain structure which is one of three parts of the cerebellum and is the entry point for a posterior cerebellar tract that carries cerebellar afferents from many brain stem nuclei .
anatomical cluster of skeletal elements that is a posterolateral part of the cranium and structurally supports the vestibuloauditory system .
structures containing a collection of nerve cell bodies .
dermal bone that forms the antero - lateral part of the lower jaw .
the bundle of the sensory root of the trigeminal nerve that descends in the medulla oblongata providing somatosensory input to the nucleus of the descending trigeminal root and to the medial funicular nucleus .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the inferior lobe of the hypothalamus and consists of masses of small cells presumably migrated from the periventricular cell masses .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the central pretectum and is ventral to the magnocellular superficial pretectal nucleus and the caudal pretectal nucleus .
dorsal fin muscle that moves individual rays the dorsal fin into a lowered position .
the dorsal hypohyal is a small cartilage replacement bone ossifying from the anterodorsal ceratohyal cartilage .
habenular nucleus where the efferent projections innervate the interpeduncular nucleus .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the dorsal hypothalamic zone and is located periventricularly .
trunk ganglion which is located adjacent to the spine on a dorsal root and contains the cell bodies of afferent sensory nerves .
artery that carries blood leaving the gill .
esophagus part of the gut that develops from endodermal precursors at the rostral end of the digestive tract .
paired superficial caudal fin muscle that originates from a broad base at the midline and narrows toward its attachment at the ventral tip of the caudal fin .
musculature part of fin .
the compound organ that stores bile .
preglomerular nucleus which is located between the rostral and medial preglomerular nuclei of the caudal tuberculum .
portion of tissue that is the caudal gigantocellular portion of the magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
multi - tissue structure that is the transverse vertical platelet on the gill filament ,  through which capillaries run .
brain structure which is paired and part of the vestibulolateralis lobe of the cerebellum and extends fibers into the cerebellar crest .
the habenula relays impulses from limbic areas of the telencephalon to an unpaired midbrain nucleus ,  the interpeduncular nucleus .
hindbrain nucleus where climbing fibers originate .
the auditory  ( hearing )  and vestibular  ( balance )  organ of the fish ,  equivalent to the inner ear of amniotes .
one of three fluid - filled semicircular tubes ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in each ear .
sensory trigeminal nucleus located in the most rostral position .
dermal bone that covers the region between the anterior margin of the eye and the upper jaw .
is an otic epithelium that will mature into the lateral crista .
large ,  paired cartilage bones separating the olfactory region from the orbit .
diencephalic nucleus which is the lateral part of the ventral hypothalamic zone .
is a portion of tissue that migrates and deposits immature neuromasts and interneuromasts .
telencephalic white matter which extends between the olfactory bulb and the ipsilateral dorsal telencephalon and carries secondary olfactory fibers .
muscle that attaches to the parhypurpophyses .
intracranial space formed by confluence of supraorbital ,  infraorbital ,  preopercular and temporal sensory canals that forms the lateral protrusion of the third ventricle .
otic vesicle protrusion that is initially laterally located and then bifurcates and fuses anteriorly with the anterior protrusion ,  and posteriorly with the posterior protrusion .
portion of tissue ,  located on the lower jaw that defines the caudal extent of the labial cavity .
portion of tissue that is a patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium in the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the superficial pretectum and is caudally contiguous with the caudal pretectal nucleus .
muscle that are part of the  mandibular arch  ( pharyngeal arch 1 )  .
telencephalic white matter which extends between the olfactory bulb and the ipsilateral ventral telencephalon and carries secondary olfactory fibers .
endochondral bone that articulates laterally with the medial surface of the cleithrum and ventro - medially with the scapula and coracoid .
the metapterygoid is a posterior bone that ossifies in the cartilaginous palatoquadrate arch .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
volcano - shaped lateral line sensory organ located in characteristic positions within the skin epithelium and containing hair cells and their support elements .
sensory trigeminal nucleus that lies at the mediodorsal edge of the descending trigeminal root  ( dv )  .
telencephalic nucleus which is located immediately ventral to the caudal zone of dorsal telencephalon .
diencephalic nucleus that is dorsal to the caudal parvocellular preoptic nucleus .
dermal bone that articulates anteriorly with the hyomandibula .
diencephalic white matter  ( tract )  which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons after which they have passed through the optic chiasm .
large median unpaired cartilage bone consisting of two diverging plates .
embryonic structure that develops into the pancreatic bud .
cartilage which is part of the pectoral fin .
musculature that is part of the pelvic fin .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva consisting of 2 neuromast .
diencephalic nucleus which is the periventricular part of the ventral hypothalamic zone .
one of three fluid - filled semicircular tubes ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in each ear .
post - cranial vertebrae lacking hemal spines  ( weitzman ,  1962 )  ,  refers generally to the anterior vertebral region bounding the abdominal cavity .
dermal bone that is part of the opercular flap and bears the preopercular sensory canal .
portion of presumptive mesoderm fated to become dorsal mesoderm .
portion of tissue which is the most peripheral layer and present only in the rostroventral olfactory bulb .
rod - like internal median skeletal support bones of the anal fin ,  which articulate with the distal radials .
paired ,  deep caudal fin muscles that arise from a narrow insertion site at the 28th and 29th vertebrae then project from the vertebral column to the ventral base of the caudal fin where they attach broadly to ventral caudal fin rays .
the dermal maxilla forms part of the upper jaw .
the  internal skeletal supports of the median and paired fins .
octaval sensory nucleus located rostral to the magnocellular octaval nucleus and arches dorsally around the descending trigeminal root .
dermal bone that is thin ,  flexible ,  and platelike ,  and that develops in overlapping skinfolds that cover the body and often the head of fish and the bases of the fins .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
medial division of the valvula cerebelli .
specialized neuronal receptor cells of the posterior macula .
dermal bone lying below the opercle .
pectoral fin muscle that develops from the primitive pectoral fin adductor .
slow twitch muscle derived from the lateral wedge - shaped strip of slow muscle cells originally positioned at the lateral end of the horizontal myoseptum .
paired ,  deep caudal fin muscles that originate from the 30th vertebra and extend toward the dorsal base of the caudal fin where they insert broadly on fin rays .
anatomical cluster that forms the floor and sidewalls of the middle part of the cranium .
lateral line sensory nucleus located in the cerebellum that processes sensory input from the lateral line .
multi - tissue structure that is located between the dorsal diencephalon and the mesencephalon and contains the caudal commissure .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the caudal tuberculum .
a prominent collection of touch - sensory neurons of the trigeminal or fifth cranial nerve ,  positioned beside the brain between the eye and the ear .
the multi - tissue ,   vagal lobe is a large ,  paired brain stem structure flanking the unpaired facial lobe laterally .
is a surface structure and is the external opening of the cloaca .
peripheral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon that is a band of tightly packed cells starting at the level of the anterior commissure and extends into the telencephalo - diencephalic boundary region .
the ventral hypohyal ossifies first along the anteroventral tip of the ceratohyal cartilage at the insertion of the tendon from the sternohyoideus  ( 5 .7 mm )  .
extraocular muscle that runs parallel to the long axis of the fish and inserts on the anterior side of the eye at the sclera - corneal  ( sc )  junction .
habenular nucleus positioned ventromedially to the dorsal habenular nuclei .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
brain structure which is the ventral part of the telencephalon and is consists of periventricular nuclei surrounding the unpaired median ventricle and those which have migrated away from the ependyma .
groove that separates the paired inferior  ( or lateral )  lobes of the hypothalamus from the tuberal hypothalamus .
brain structure which is part of the cerebellum consists of the paired granular eminentia and the medial caudal lobe .
a thin medial unpaired dermal bone that is kite or paddle - shape .
the portion of the ysl that is outside of the blastoderm margin during epiboly .
cranial nerve which exits the medulla oblongata and controls the lateral movement of the eye .
is a mandibular muscle that consists of three subdivisions a1 ,  a2 ,  and a3 .
sensory trigeminal nucleus located at the tectal ventricle near the synencephalon and optic tectum  that contains large pyriform neurons .
series of paired muscles that have a distal attachment at the lateral  base of each ray and a proximal attachment  to the hypaxialis .
one of three fluid - filled semicircular tubes ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in each ear .
otolith part of lagena .
endochondral bone that is median and is the anterior - most bone of the ventral hyoid arch ,  the 'tongue' of the a fish .
cns white matter that is part of the brain stem or spinal cord .
the portion of tissue forming the membrane connecting the branchiostegals and enclosing the gill chamber .
diencephalic tract which is located in the vicinity of the dorsal diencephalon and mesencephalon and connects the pretectal nuclei .
median unpaired cartilage bone that ossifies as a perichondral lamellae ensheathing the nasal septum anterodorsally and laterally  ( harrington ,  1955 )  .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the caudal hypothalamus and surrounds the paired posterior ventricular recesses of the third ventricle .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the caudal tuberculum .
vertebra bearing a hemal arch and spine .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
the egg shell .
space proximal to the urogenital pore where the pronephric duct ,  intestine and the oviduct or sperm duct  empties .
endochondral bone that articulates dorsally with the scapula and with the mesocoracoid when the latter is present ,  posteriorly with the lower two or three proximal radials and antero - ventrally with the cleithrum .
brain structure which is located ventrolaterally to the caudal preglomerular nucleus and in the dorsomedial aspect of the caudal protrusion of the inferior lobe of the hypothalamus .
cns white matter that is part of the diencephalon .
peripheral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon which is a band of tightly packed cells starting at the level of the anterior commissure and disappearing more rostrally .
paired ,  deep caudal fin muscles that arise from a narrow insertion site at the 28th and 29th vertebrae ,  then extend toward the dorsal base of the caudal fin where they insert broadly on fin rays .
muscle of the dorsal fin that are thin ,  arise from the lateral edge of fin bases ,  and attach to the skin just above the epaxial muscle .
periventricular nucleus which lies rostral to the anterior commissure and is contiguous caudally with the supracommissural nucleus of the ventral telencephalon .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva positioned posterior to the ear .
extraocular muscle that inserts at the scleral corneal junction on the dorsal side of the eye .
tegmental nucleus that is immediately adjacent to the nucleus lateralis valvulae  ( nlv )  .
brain structure which is the dorsal most region of the hypothalamus and expands laterally and emerges caudal to the ventral zone and is separated from the median tuberal portion by a deep ventral sulcus .
skeletal muscle that is the dorsal - most component of the body musculature .
epipleurals lie below the horizontal septum and are posteroventrally directed .
anatomical cluster that is located in the anterior region of the cranium and provides structural support for the peripheral olfactory organ .
portion of tissue which is located between the glomerular layer and internal cellular layer of the olfactory bulb ,  and contains large mitral cells whose efferent axons form most of the lateral and medial olfactory tracts .
paired fasciculus that connects the habenula to the interpeduncular nucleus .
compound organ that consists of gill filaments ,  gill lamellae ,  gill rakers and pharyngeal arches 3 - 7 .
roof plate that is part of the midbrain .
dermal bone that is a small anterior projection present on all of pharyngeal arches 3 - 7 .
multi - tissue structure which is located in between the primary olfactory fiber layer and the external cellular layer of the olfactory bulb .
portion of tissue which is the innermost layer of the corpus cerebelli and consists of small granule cells and larger golgi cells .
the hypaxialis consists of that part of the body musculature lying ventral to the midlateral horizontal septum .
hypobranchials are the most medial of the bilaterally paired elements of the gill arches .
expanded and laterally flattened hemal arches and spines .
paired dermal bones ,  likened to a bone tube ,  positioned lateral to the supraethmoid .
hindbrain nucleus that provides descending innervation to the brainstem and spinal cord .
is a mandibular muscle that develops into the ventral intermandibularis anterior and posterior muscles .
otolith organ comprised of the macula lagena and asteriscus .
dermal bone that is situated under or posterior to the eye and associated with the infraorbital sensory canal .
portion of the lateral forebrain bundle that lies in the diencephalon .
extraocular muscle that runs parallel to the long axis of the fish and inserts on the caudal side of the eye at the sclera - corneal  .
mandibular muscle that inserts along the dorsolateral faces of the hyosymplectics .
the lymphatic system consists of blind - ended vessels ,  fluid and macromolecules collected  from interstitial tissue space that serve as a conduit for the development and transport of lymphoid cells .
portion of tissue that is a patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium in the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
brain structure which is part of the vestibulolateralis lobe of the cerebellum .
preglomerular nucleus which is located between the lateral and caudal preglomerular nuclei of the caudal tuberculum .
telencephalic nucleus which is medially located and surrounds the central zone of dorsal telencephalon .
multi - tissue structure which is part of the hypothalamus and consists of caudal and ventral zones ,  and is separated from the dorsal hypothalamic zone by a deep ventral sulcus .
portion of tissue which is the outermost layer of the corpus cerebelli and consists largely of axons and dendrites .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 2 .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the caudal tuberculum .
the nucleus isthmi is a hindbrain nucleus located in the tegmentum of rhombomere 1 close to the secondary gustatory nucleus .
nucleus that lies rostral to the isthmic primary nucleus .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva positioned dorsal to the ear .
brain structure which is the paired anteriormost part of the telencephalon and are connected to the telencephalon by two tracts carrying secondary olfactory fibers .
female reproductive organ .the ovary is a bilobed cavitated organ located ventral to the swim bladder .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the synencephalon and is located adjacent to the caudal commissure .
cranial nerve which innervates muscles of the ocular motor system .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the superficial pretectum .
anatomical cluster of paired dermal and endochondral bones that attaches to the dorso - posterior part of the cranium ,  and support the radials and pectoral fin .
diencephalic nucleus which is located between the ventral thalamus and the hypothalamus .
dermal bone that is part of the pectoral girdle and located ventral to the supracleithrum and posterior to the cleithrum .
is an otic epithelium that will mature into the posterior crista .
otic vesicle protrusion that is anteriorly located and gives rise to the pillar of the posterior semicircular canal .
the part of the reproductive system that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
embryonic structure that is fated to become cephalic mesoderm .
sphincter at the junction of the esophagus and pneumatic duct .
embryonic structure part of the posterior presumptive neural plate that is fated to become the spinal cord .
multi - tissue structure that is the dorsal part of the diencephalon ,  caudal to the telencephalon ,  rostral to the midbrain optic tectum ;  the major sensory input to the pretectum is visual .
paired cartilage bones ,  flat and hexagonal in shape that contact the orbitosphenoid anteriorly .
reticular formation is a complex network of neurons and diffuse nuclei that extends from the spinal cord centrally along the length of the brain to the mesencephalon .
the retroarticular is a cartilage bone that forms at the posteroventral tip of meckel's cartilage where the interoperculomandibular ligament attaches  ( 5 .1 mm nl )  .
vein that joins with the posterior cardinal vein to form the common cardinal vein .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva positioned posteriorly to the second arch skeletal element .
cranial nerve which enters the brain between cranial nerves vi and vii and projects to a dorsal medullary area between cerebellum and vagal lobe .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the preoptic area and is the anterior continuation of the caudal parvocellular preoptic nucleus and is ventral to the telencephalon .
diencephalic nucleus which is located in the anterior portion of the dorsal thalamus .
otolith organ comprised of the macula saccule and sagitta .
the scaphium is a modification of na 1 in which the neural arch is reduced and fused to a cup - shaped ossification of membrane bone ,  the concha .
white matter connecting the primary gustatory nuclei to  the secondary gustatory nucleus in the isthmus .
fluid - filled semicircular tubes ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in the inner ear .
cranial nerve which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons running posterior medially towards the optic chiasm ,  at which the axons cross the midline and after which the structure is termed the optic tract .
organ that filters the blood removing defective blood cells .
hemal arch and spine of preural centrum 1 .
ventral ,  superficial ,  paired muscle that originates from the posterior part of the protractor ishii tendon and the midline .
hindbrain nucleus that is located in ventral rhombomeres 1 - 3 and gives rise to ascending fibers innervating most areas of the brain .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the preoptic area and is ventrolateral to the caudal parvocellular preoptic nucleus .
supraneurals independent ,  median ,  elongate ,  rod - like cartilages or bones in the dorsal skeletogenous septum between the cranium and the dorsal fin .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva consisting of three neuromast positioned superior to the eye .
multi - tissue structure that is the dorsal part of the midbrain and develops from the alar plate and is the most complex layered structure in the zebrafish brain .
portion of tissue that is part of the primitive meninx which forms a fold ,  roofing a ventricle of the brain and supporting the choroid plexus .
diencephalic nucleus which is located ventral to the medial preglomerular nucleus in the caudal tuberculum .
multi - tissue structure that is a paired longitudinal eminence of granular cells that develops from the alar plate and is attached to the tegmentum in the medial tectal ventricle .
portion of tissue ,  located on the upper jaw that defines the caudal extent of the labial cavity .
the urohyal is a median dermal bone that ossifies in the membrane between the paired sternohyoideus muscles ventral to the anterior end of copula 1 .
cranial nerve that innervates gill muscles .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the central pretectum and is ventromedial to the magnocellular superficial pretectal nucleus and the caudal pretectal nucleus .
paired ,  deep caudal fin muscles that originate from the 30th vertebra then project from the vertebral column to the ventral base of the caudal fin where they attach broadly to ventral caudal fin rays .
periventricular nucleus which lies rostral to the anterior commissure of the ventral telencephalon .
extraocular muscle that inserts at the scleral - corneal junction on the ventral side of the eye .
a group of modified neural arches and spines of the first four vertebrae .
hyoid muscle that originates at the first branchiostegal ray and inserts in the mesial aponeurosis ,  meeting its contralateral counterpart .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva positioned anterior to the ear .
is a dorsal ,  paired hyoid muscle that moves the auditory capsules with the opercles .
series of  muscles that  have an anterior attachment  at posteriorlateral base of each ray and posterior attachment at the haemal spines .
dermal and endochondral compound bone that results from the fusion of the dermal angular and the endochondral articular and forms the posterior part of the lower jaw .
is an otic epithelium that will mature into the anterior crista .
otic vesicle protrusion that is anteriorly located and gives rise to the pillar of the anterior semicircular canal .
area of the forebrain anterior to the posterior tuberculum and the hypothalamus and ventral to the ventral thalamus .
cavitated compound organ that receives inflow of deoxygenated blood and delivers it to a muscular cardiac ventricle .
large median unpaired cartilage bone that contacts the exoccipital ,  epiotic and pterotic dorsally ,  and the parasphenoid anteriorly .
muscle system in the trunk .
small membrane bone homologous with a cartilage bone in more basal fishes  ( patterson ,  1977 )  .
diencephalic nucleus which is located anterior to the caudal tuberal nucleus and contains tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive csf contacting bipolar cells .
dermal bone that is a bilaterally paired and flattened element that supports the branchiostegal membrane .
continuation of the caudal vein cranial to the anal pore .
brainstem tract which carries cerebellar afferents from the dorsal tegmental nucleus and nucleus lateralis valvulae .
hindbrain nucleus which is part of the medulla oblongata and is a mechanoreceptive area along with the medial octavolateralis nucleus .
preglomerular nucleus which is the most caudomedial of the preglomerular nuclei of the caudal tuberculum .
diencephalic nucleus which is located posterior to the paraventricular organ .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the inferior lobe of the hypothalamus and consists of masses of large cells presumably migrated from the periventricular cell masses and receives signals from the secondary gustatory nucleus .
paired dermal bone that covers the hind part of the cranium ,  overlapping the dorsal edge of the sphenotic ,  pterotic ,  epiotic and the anterior edge of the supraoccipital .
telencephalic nucleus which is centrally located and is surrounded by the other four dorsal telencephalic regions .
endochondral bone that is bilaterally paired and forms part of the ventral branchial arches .
cerebellar commissure which is located within the ventral boundary zone between valvula and corpus cerebelli .
commissure in the  ventral diencephalon that lies rostral to the ventral flexure and caudal of the posterior tuberal nucleus .
plate like dermal bone with usually only one neuromast pore  ( nelson ,  1969 )  .
dorsal pelvic fin muscle that originates at the anterior side of the basipterygium ,  lies mostly parallel to the pelvic fin rays and attaches and inserts on the bases of all the pelvic fin rays .
mandibular muscle that inserts along the dorsolateral faces of the opercles .
the muscle that acts as an antagonist to the arrector ventralis ,  reversing the direction of the leading edge of the pectoral fin to initiate the upstroke .
dorsal fin muscle that moves individual rays the dorsal fin to an erect position .
trigeminal motor nucleus that is located dorsal to the lateral longitudinal fascicle .
brain structure which is the dorsal part of the telencephalon ,  most of which is developmentally everted such that the ependymal lining of the unpaired median ventricle becomes located at the apparent periphery of the telencephalon .
telencephalic nucleus which is the most dorsally located part of the dorsal telencephalon and surrounds the central zone of dorsal telencephalon .
some or all epineural bones ossify free from the neural arches in most teleosts .
internal skeletal supports of the pelvic fin .
brain structure which is part of the diencephalon and consists of the dorsal and ventral nuclei of the habenula ,  and two dorsal outgrowths ,  the epiphysis and the saccus dorsalis .
muscle system surrounding the eye .
hindbrain nucleus that doesn't project to the spinal cord .
fast muscle cell located in somite 1 .
large elongated paired dermal bones that roof the cranium and bear part of the supraorbital canal .
tissue located on the ventral side of the optic tectum ,   that  contains the cell bodies of most tectal neurons .
hindbrain nucleus which is longitudinally oriented and situated along the ventral fourth ventricle and extends rostrally up to the level of the tegmentum of the midbrain .
hemal arches extend ventrally from the centra of caudal and transitional vertebrae to enclose the caudal artery and vein .
muscles that insert into skeletal elements of pharyngeal arch 2  ( hyoid arch )  .
hyoid muscle that originates at the anterior ceratohyals and inserts into the mesial aponeurosis ,  meeting its contralateral counterpart .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva consistingo of four neuromast that are positioned inferior or posterior to the eye a sensory system on the surface of the fish ,  consisting of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  distributed in discrete lines over the body surface .
third weberian ossicle .the intercalarium is a y -  or t - shaped modification of neural arch 2 in which an anteriolateral process  ( the manubrium )  is embedded in the interossicular ligament ;  other parts include the ascending and articulating processes .
axial bone which is a segmental ossification that forms in the myoseptum ;  found in teleosts fishes only .
the pharyngobranchials are the dorsalmost bones of the branchial arches located immediately dorsal and medial to the epibranchials .
muscle of the caudal fin that attaches to the appendicular skeleton and attaches to the first long ray on the dorsal side of the caudal fin .
cavitated compound organ located in the pleuroperitoneal cavity where hematopoiesis and filtering of blood occur .
otolith part of utricle .
lateral division of the valvula cerebelli .
the lateral longitudinal fascicule is an ascending bundle of axons .
telencephalic nucleus which is laterally located and surrounds the central zone of dorsal telencephalon .
hyoid muscle that originates at the ventrolateral margin of the pterotic and inserts in the dorsomesial edge of the opercle .
endochondral bone that is intersegmental and rod - shaped ,  forming in the peritoneal membrane and attached to the vertebral parapophyses .
the locus coeruleus is a widely projecting isthmal noradrenergic nucleus .
cells  ( incompletely cleaved before the ysl forms )  ,  located at the surface just at the rim of the blastodisc ,  external to the deep blastomeres .
the medial longitudinal fasciculus  ( mlf )  is a pair of crossed fiber tracts  ( group of axons )  ,  that begin with in the nucleus of the mlf and run ventral to the rhombencephalic ventricle ,  towards the caudal end of the medulla oblongata .
duct of the adult kidney  ( mesonephros )  ,  present bilaterally ventral to the somites and leading to the cloacal chamber .
anatomical system consisting of the cardiac ,  skeletal and smooth muscles .
paired fin bone that attaches the pectoral girdle to the skull via two projections contacting the epiotic and intercalar bones ,  and carry the main laterosensory canal .
external openings to the nasal cavity .
hindbrain nucleus in the tegmental region of rhombomere 1 .
nucleus located in the midbrain tegmentum that controls motor coordination during locomotion .
nasal epithelium wherein ciliated olfactory receptor neurons ,  supporting cells ,  and basal cells are located .
a large flap ,  covered by integument ,   supported by several flat bones ,  actuated by muscles ,  found on the side of the head covering the gill chambers .
decussation of cranial nerve ii axons whereby the retinal axons cross the midline ,  projecting contralaterally through the optic tract .
vertebra anterior to the urostyle ;  sometimes termed the 'penultimate' vertebra .
macula that is located in the developing posterior inner ear ,  and gives rise to the macula neglecta and the macula saccule .
cavitated compound organ that is a fluid filed chamber with  a maculae on one surface and associated otolith tethered to the maculae .
duct that connects ovary with cloacal chamber .
long ,  unpaired median dermal bone that runs almost the entire length of the cranium .
musculature that is part of the pectoral fin .
deep pelvic muscle that originates from the basipterygium  and lies manly parallel to the rays and attaches to the base of all the rays except ray 1 .
anatomical cluster that consists of the paired basipterygia which support the pelvic fin .
patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium that is associated with the posterior semicircular canal .
the premaxilla is a bone of the upper jaw .
presumptive structure fated to become blood .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the telencephalon .
portion of tissue which is the innermost layer of the olfactory bulb .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the diencephalon .
paired cartilage bone that contacts the pterosphenoid anteriorly ,  the sphenotic and the pterotic dorsally ,  and the epiotic and basioccipital posteriorly .
paired cartilage bone that contacts the autosphenotic anteriorly ,  the parietal dorsally ,  the prootic ventrally ,  and the epiotic and exoccipital posteriorly .
afferent vein that supplies the kidney .
endochondral bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates with the hypohyal cartilage or bone ,  dorsal and ventral hypohyals ,  and epihyal posteriorly .
brainstem tract which carries cerebellar afferents from the pretectum and runs medial to the lateral longitudinal fascicle for a distance before turning dorsally to traverse the nucleus lateralis valvulae .
preglomerular nucleus which is the most rostrolaterally located of the preglomerular nuclei of the caudal tuberculum .
diencephalic nucleus which is the most anterior and lateral part of the ventral hypothalamic zone .
endochondral bone that is located medial to the cleithrum ,  and articulates ventrally with the coracoid ,  medially with the mesocoracoid when the later is present and posteriorly with the upper one to three proximal radials .
cranial cartilage which is a small median cartilage located between the premaxillae and anterodorsal to the ethmoid .
vertebra anterior to preural centrum 1 ;  sometimes termed the 'antepenultimate' vertebra .
paired cartilage bone that contacts the pterosphenoid anteriorly ,  the prootic ventrally ,  and the pterotic posteriorly .
the sensory ganglion of the ear .
anatomical groove which separates the dorsal and medial zones of dorsal telencephalon .
region of the head where the mouth and oral structures are located .
superficial ,  dorsal pelvic fin muscle that originates at the anterior side of the basipterygium and inserts onto all pelvic fin rays except ray 1 .
dermal bone that articulates dorsally with the posttemporal and ventrally with the cleithrum .
large shield - shaped unpaired median cartilage bone that contact the parietal anteriorly ,  and the exoccipital and epiotic laterally .
cns white matter that is part of the telencephalon .
male reproductive organ .adult zebrafish testes are paired organs forming elongated structures ,  internally organized into tubules .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the midbrain and develops from the alar plate .
cranial nerve that innervates the oculomotor system .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the synencephalon and the pretectum and is located periventricularly .
neural arch that extends along the dorso - lateral surface of the last preural centra and / or ural centra and the notochord  ( arratia & schultze ,  1992 )  .
brain structure which is caudally attached to the rostral medulla oblongata and extends into the tectal ventricle .
outflow artery from the heart to the aortic arches .
brainstem commissure that intersects the medial longitudinal fasciculus .
midbrain nucleus which is part of the torus semicircularis and is the target of ascending octavolateralis systems related to mechanoreception .
connective tissue partitions developing between the myotomes .
collection of the visceromotor nuclei and their fiber tracts in the medulla oblongata .
muscle located on ventral side of the head ,  linking the ventral hyoid arch to the dentary .
abductor muscle that develops from the primitive pectoral fin abductor .
hyoid muscle that originates at the parasphenoid and inserts into the mesial sides of the hyomandibula ,  metapterygoid and entopterygoid .
small thin adductor muscle that is part of the pectoral fin .
series of muscles that have a distal attachment at the anteriolateral base of each ray and spike and a proximal attachment to the haemal spines .
brainstem commissure located immediately rostral to the interpeduncular nucleus .
patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium that is associated with the anterior semicircular canal .
the cartilaginous autopalatine forms from the anterior palatoquadrate arch .
the quadrate is the dorsal bone in the jaw joint with the anguloarticular of the lower jaw .
surface structure which is a tactile structure found in the branchial region .
endochondral bone that is paired and supports the pelvic fin .
brainstem and spinal tract which emerges medial to the caudal intermediate reticular formation and runs caudally along the medial edge of the inferior reticular formation .
endochondral bone that begins ossifying on the anterior surface of the posterior end of the ceratohyal cartilage near the site of articulation with the interhyal  ( 5 .8 mm )  .
fin musculature that is part of the caudal fin .
abducens motor nucleus which is located at the level of the intermediate reticular formation .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the preoptic area and is the posterior continuation of the rostral parvocellular preoptic nucleus .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the superficial pretectum and is rostrally contiguous with the magnocellular superficial pretectal nucleus .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
brain structure which is part of the diencephalon and is larger than the dorsal thalamus and ventral thalamus .
multi - tissue structure which forms most of the median tuberal portion of the hypothalamus .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the central pretectum and is dorsal to the magnocellular superficial pretectal nucleus and the caudal pretectal nucleus .
portion of tissue composed of parallel fibers that originate at the granular eminence that overlays the rhombencephalic lateral line region .
postcranial axial cartilage and weberian ossicle that is located dorsal to the scaphium .
anterior commissure which is located immediately ventral to the supracommissural nucleus of area ventralis telencephali .
cerebellar commissure that runs between the bulbo - spinal tract and the vestibulo - spinal tract .
twelve pairs of cranial nerves exit / enter the cranium through openings in the skull .
cns white matter comprised of the rostral mesencephalo - cerebellar and caudal mesencephalo - cerebellar tracts .
rod - like internal median skeletal support bones of the anal fin ,  which articulate with the lepidotrichia distally .
diencephalic nucleus which is located in the caudal portion of the dorsal thalamus ,  dorsal to the central caudal thalamic nucleus .
musculature that is part of the dorsal fin .
dorsal pelvic fin muscle that originates at the anterior side of the basipterygium and inserts onto the base of the first pelvic fin ray .
the afferent sensory portion of the spinal nerve root .
multi - tissue structure that is the dorsal part of the thalamus and emerges ventral to the caudal portion of the ventral habenular nucleus .
abducens motor nucleus which is located at the level of the superior reticular formation .
the ectopterygoid is dermal bone located at the anterior part of the palatoquadrate .
the entopterygoid is a dermal bone that forms the anteroventral and ventral surface of the orbit .
pharyngeal arch bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial cartilage or bone .
a free ,  modified neural spine of a preural or a ural vertebra that is placed between the last developed neural spine of a preural centrum and the dorsal axis  ( = anterior margin of first uroneural )  of the caudal skeleton  .
paired cartilage bone that bears a large foramen  ( lateral occipital foramen )  .
dermal canal - bearing bone placed at the dorso - posterior region of the skull roof ,  lying on the posterior region of the pterotic and parietals ,  or the pterotic and epioccipital ,  or on the pterotic ,  epioccipital and occipital bones .
cranial nerve where motor axons innervate muscles derived from the second branchial arch .
artery of the gill filament .
portion of tissue that projects outward from the gill and is a thread - like ,  soft ,  red respiratory and excretory structure .
cranial nerve that innervates gill muscles .
the zebrafish head kidney consists of fused bilateral lobes located in the anterior part of the kidney .
vein that carries blood away from the liver .
a connective tissue partition developing at the apex of the chevron - shaped myotome and separating dorsal  ( epaxial )  and ventral  ( hypaxial )  body wall muscle masses .
the hyomandibula is the large ,  dorsal - most member of the hyoid arch .
a pair of ha are connect one to each aa1 .
dermal bone that is located anterior to the subopercle and lying below and slightly ventral to the horizontal limb of the preopercle .
otolith that is part of the sacculus .
specialized neuronal receptor cells of the anterior macula .
heart valve that forms between the atrium and the sinus venosus .
paired ,  dorsomedially directed processes on the posterior ends of the centra ,  ligamentously joined to the neural prezygapophyses of the immediately posterior vertebra .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the synencephalon ,  is located adjacent to the caudal commissure and contains ciliated neurosecretory ependymal cells .
cns white matter  ( commissure )  that runs between the optic tectal hemispheres .
abductor muscle that develops from the primitive pectoral fin abductor .
multi - tissue structure that is the superficial part of the pretectum and is embedded in the optic tract .
supporting cell that is part of the olfactory epithelium .
periventricular nucleus which is contiguous with the caudal part of the dorsal nucleus of the ventral telencephalon and the postcommissural nucleus .
paired dermal bones that form the anterodorsal margin of the orbit .
the symplectic is an irregularly rod - shaped cartilage replacement bone articulating with the hyomandibular and quadrate .
the tangential nucleus is located in rhombomere 5 and receives a dense utricular input .
is a multi - tissue structure composed of dentine ,  enameloid and tooth pulp .
the anatomical space located between the lips and the oral valves .
cranial nerve which exits the medulla oblongata and carries both sensory and motor axons to and from the facial region .
the fourth weberian ossicle .the tripus is a complex modification of the parapophysis and rib of the third vertebra .
otolith organ comprised of the macula utricle and lapillus .
muscle that is important in controlling the leading edge of the pectoral fin in the juvenile zebrafish ,  particularly during the initiation of the downstroke .
trigeminal motor nucleus that is located at the ventrolateral edge of the lateral longitudinal fascicle .
deep ,  narrow muscle that arises anteriorly and laterally of the pelvic abductor profundus .
the efferent motor portion of the spinal nerve root .
the posterior intestine has short longitudinally arranged epithelial folds which are similar to the colon of higher vertebrates .
multi - tissue structure which is the ventral region of the median tuberal portion of the hypothalamus and is the most rostral region of the hypothalamus .
a multilayer of deep cells of fairly uniform thickness that forms during early epiboly  ( at dome stage ;  upon conversion of the blastodisc to the blastoderm )  ;  during gastrulation the del  ( deep cell layer )  gives rise to the epiblast and hypoblast .
the portion of the ysl that lies deep to the blastoderm during epiboly .
hindbrain motor nucleus which is the origin of motor axons of cranial nerve vi .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the central pretectum and lies dorsolateral to the caudal pretectal nucleus .
hyoid muscle that originates at the opercle and subopercle and inserts into the branchiostegal rays .
artery that is part of the pharyngeal arches 3 - 5 ,  and forms the afferent portion of a loop off of the aortic arch .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the median fin fold .
the epaxial region of somite 27 derived body wall muscle .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 11 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 14 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 17 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 2 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
the epaxial region of somite 3 derived body wall muscle .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 23 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 27 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 3 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 7 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
vertebra which are the three most posterior vertebra supporting the caudal fin .
paired ,  ventromedially directed processes on the posterior ends of the centra ,  ligamentously joined to the hemal postzygapophyses of the immediately posterior vertebra .
extraocular muscle innervated by the trochlear nerve .
the epaxial region of somite 11 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 5 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 14 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 17 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 2 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 22 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 25 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 28 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 30 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 6 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 9 derived body wall muscle .
fast muscle cell located in somite 10 .
the epaxial region of somite 8 derived body wall muscle .
fast muscle cell located in somite 13 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 16 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 19 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 21 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 24 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 27 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 3 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 5 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 8 .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
cranial neural crest that gives rise to the facio - acoustic ganglion .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 2 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 5 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 8 .
portion of tissue which is part of the valvula cerebelli and consists largely of axons and dendrites .
the hypaxial region of somite 11 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 14 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 17 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 2 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 22 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 25 derived body wall muscle .
fast muscle cell located in somite 12 .
the hypaxial region of somite 28 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 30 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 6 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 9 derived body wall muscle .
a cns interneuron located in the spinal cord .
portion of the lateral forebrain bundle that lies in the telencephalon .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the diencephalic region of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 1 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 4 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 7 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 15 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the telencephalic region of the neural tube .
mesenchyme part of dorsal fin .
mesoderm that is part of the pectoral fin bud .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 10 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 13 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 16 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 19 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 22 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 18 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 25 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 28 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 30 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 6 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 9 .
portion of somite 11 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 15 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 18 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 20 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 23 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
fast muscle cell located in somite 20 .
portion of somite 16 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 29 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 4 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 7 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
cranial neural crest that is part of the diencephalon .
cranial neural crest that is part of the telencephalon .
neuromast that is part of the infraorbital lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the opercular lateral line .
fast muscle cell located in somite 23 .
vagal neural crest is adjacent to the first seven somites gives rise to both ganglionic and ectomesenchymal derivatives .
periventricular nucleus which is contiguous with the supracommissural nucleus of the ventral telencephalon .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 1 .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 4 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 2 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 6 .
midbrain nucleus which is part of the torus semicircularis and is the target of ascending octavolateralis systems related to audition .
fast muscle cell located in somite 26 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 5 .
ventromedial region of somite 11 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 14 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 17 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 2 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 22 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 25 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 28 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 30 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 6 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
fast muscle cell located in somite 29 .
ventromedial region of somite 9 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
fast muscle cell located in somite 4 .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 12 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 15 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment 18 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail 21 segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 24 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 28 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 4 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 8 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
modified hemal arches and spines that support the caudal fin .
fast muscle cell located in somite 7 .
extraocular muscle that inserts at the scleral - corneal junction on the ventral side of the eye .
median fin skeleton supporting the caudal fin .
anatomical cluster that is part of the cranium and composed of dermally derived bones .
the epaxial region of somite 1 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 12 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 15 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 18 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 20 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 23 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 26 derived body wall muscle .
floor plate that is part of the diencephalon .
the epaxial region of somite 29 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 4 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 7 derived body wall muscle .
fast muscle cell located in somite 11 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 14 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 17 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 2 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 22 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 25 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 1 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 28 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 30 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 6 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 9 .
floor plate that is part of the neural rod .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 3 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 6 .
floor plate that is part of the spinal cord .
the hypaxial region of somite 1 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 12 derived body wall muscle .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 4 .
the hypaxial region of somite 15 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 18 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 20 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 23 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 26 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 29 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 4 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 7 derived body wall muscle .
musculature associated with the hypurals .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 7 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the midbrain region of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 2 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 5 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 8 .
mesenchyme part of median fin fold .
portion of tissue which is part of the valvula cerebelli and contains neuronal cell bodies .
floor plate that is part of the telencephalon .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 11 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 14 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 17 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 20 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 23 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 26 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 29 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 4 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 7 .
portion of somite 1 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
the hypaxial region of somite 10 derived body wall muscle .
portion of somite 12 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 16 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 19 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 21 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 24 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 27 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 3 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 5 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 8 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
neural crest that is part of the midbrain .
rod - like internal median skeletal support bones of the dorsal fin ,  which articulate with the lepidotrichia distally .
the hypaxial region of somite 13 derived body wall muscle .
spinal cord structure that is part of the ventricular system and is filled with cerebral - spinal fluid and runs the length of the spinal cord .
neuromast that is part of the middle lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the posterior lateral line .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the synencephalon ,  is located adjacent to the caudal commissure ,  and extends axons into the medial longitudinal fasciculus .
skeleton that consists of the supporting endochondral proximal and distal radials and the dermal fins rays or lepidotrichia .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva .
the hypaxial region of somite 16 derived body wall muscle .
rod - like internal median skeletal support bones of the dorsal fin ,  which articulate with the distal radials .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 2 .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 6 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 3 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 7 .
ventromedial region of somite 1 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 12 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 15 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 18 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 20 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
the hypaxial region of somite 19 derived body wall muscle .
ventromedial region of somite 23 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 26 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 29 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 4 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 7 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
the hypaxial region of somite 21 derived body wall muscle .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 10 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 13 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 16 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment 19 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 22 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
the hypaxial region of somite 24 derived body wall muscle .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 25 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 29 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 6 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 9 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
the hypaxial region of somite 27 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 3 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 5 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 8 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 10 derived body wall muscle .
portion of tissue located at either side of the neural rod .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 3 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 6 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the spinal cord .
sensory trigeminal nucleus located at the end of the medulla oblongata .
mesenchyme that is part of the pectoral fin .
the epaxial region of somite 13 derived body wall muscle .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 12 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 15 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 18 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 21 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 24 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 27 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 3 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 5 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 8 .
the epaxial region of somite 16 derived body wall muscle .
portion of somite 10 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 13 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 17 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 2 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 22 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 25 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 28 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 30 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 6 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 9 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
the epaxial region of somite 19 derived body wall muscle .
neural crest that is part of the trunk .
neuromast that is part of the occipital lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the supraorbital lateral line .
the paired bony lateral extensions off the parhypural .
membrane on the apical surface of the retina .
the epaxial region of somite 21 derived body wall muscle .
anteriormost hindbrain segment or neuromere .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 3 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 1 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 4 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 8 .
ventromedial region of somite 10 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 13 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 16 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 19 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
the epaxial region of somite 24 derived body wall muscle .
ventromedial region of somite 21 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 24 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 27 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 3 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 5 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 8 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
branch of the internal carotid artery that extends caudally along the sides of the midbrain and eventually drains into the basilar artery via the posterior communicating artery .
the paired vessels that run along the lateral walls of the hindbrain and drain into the anterior cardinal veins .
artery that originates as rostral extensions of the paired lateral dorsal aorta .
connect the outflow of the aortic arches to the dorsal aorta .
the juncture where the pronephric ducts empty into the cloaca .
muscle that develops from somite and gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
veins that connect the posterior cardinal vein and the dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
fin that is the most posterior median fin .
caudal branch of the internal carotid artery that gives rise to the branches that supply the diencephalon and telencephalon .
basidorsals are bilaterally paired cartilages on the dorsolateral side of the notochord which are replaced by ossified neural arches or dorsal arcocentra .
arteries that connect the dorsal aorta and the dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
artery that branches dorsally from the cranial division of the internal carotid artery ,  then curves caudally along the dorsal medial wall of the eye capsule to drain into the pmbc just rostral to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a neural arch encloses the neural canal and typically meets its partner to form a neural spine .
vein that branches from the primordial hindbrain channel  ( phbc )  at 1 .3 dpf .
artery in the midbrain that develops from the proximal portion of the primitive mesencephalic artery .
region of the median fin fold that develops into the anal and caudal fin .
presumptive structure part of the intermediate mesoderm ,  that is fated to become pronephric mesoderm .
portion of tissue formed form thyroid follicle cells that forms along the midline in pharyngeal mesenchyme .
vasculature that runs along the rostral - caudal axis of the fish .
pear or onion - shaped intraepithelial sensory endorgans .
the narrow cleft along the medial wall of the lateral ventricle along the margins of which the choroid plexus is attached ;  it lies between the upper surface of the thalamus and lateral edge of the fornix in the central part of the ventricle and between the terminal stria and fimbria hippocampi in the inferior horn .
the bulbous anteriormost portion of the intestine has the most digestive enzymes and the greatest epithelial surface area .
a small outgrowth of the pharyngeal epithelium that is the site of lymphocyte cell production .
paired organ where maturation of t - lymphocytes occurs .
portion of tissue part of the pharyngeal endoderm that is fated to become thyroid follicle .
portion of tissue that is posterior to the developing notochord during tail bud extension .
proliferative region that is part of the ventricular system .
cells that develop from adaxial cells  that express engrailed and do not migrate completely to the lateral surface of the myotome ,  and instead extend from the notochord to the lateral surface of the somite ,  at the level of the future horizontal myoseptum .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of danio rerio .
is an otic sensory epithelium that will develop into the mature macula .
is an otic sensory epithelium that will develop into the mature anterior macula .
is an otic sensory epithelium that will develop into the mature posterior macula .
a hair cell which is immature and located in the anterior macula .
a hair cell which is immature and located in the posterior macula .
a duct that carries bile from the liver to the intestine .
sensory system that uses taste buds to sense chemical compounds .
outpocketings of pharyngeal endoderm that interdigitate with the neural crest derived pharyngeal arches .
portion of tissue that develops into a gill .
telencephalic white matter  ( commissure )  which connects the two cerebral hemispheres across the midline .
a female germ cell that has entered meiosis .
oocyte development of zebrafish has been divided into five stages based on morphological criteria and on physiological and biochemical events .
acellular anatomic structure that is a layer that  separates the developing oocyte and the granulosa cell layer .
portion of tissue part of the ovarian follicle containing a single layer of granulosa cells that surround the developing oocyte .
multi - tissue structure of the ovarian follicle ,  composed of stromal cells and capillaries that covers oocytes .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the vent which includes the anal and caudal fins .
a protuberance in front of the gential pore and behind the vent .
presumptive structure fated to become the shield .
portion of tissue that consists of a layer of cells that form during embryogenesis that will give rise to all structures of the organism .
postcranial axial skeleton that is unpaired and located on the sagittal plane of the organism .
median fin skeleton located on the dorsal surface of the organism .
the dorsal marginal region of the ysl where maternal dorsal determinants localize .
the nem cell cluster lies in a superficial position of the dorsal blastoderm margin encompassing evl cells and one or two layers of underlying deep cells .
tooth row that is the ventralmost row of teeth on ceratobranchial 5 bone .
sensory system responsible for the perception of spatial orientation and auditory stimuli .
tooth row that is the mediodorsal row of teeth on ceratobranchial 5 bone ,  located between the dorsal tooth row and ventral tooth row .
tooth row that is the dorsalmost row of teeth on ceratobranchial 5 bone .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the anteriormost tooth in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 3v and anterior to tooth 5v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 1v and anterior to tooth 3v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 2v and anterior to tooth 4v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the anteriormost tooth in the mediodorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 1md and anterior to tooth 3md in the mediodorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the anteriormost tooth in the dorsal tooth row .
sensory system responsible for olfaction .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the dorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the mediodorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 2md and anterior to tooth 4md in the mediodorsal tooth row .
placode that develops into a tooth .
musculature part of the anal fin .
nervous system that  is involved primarily with the internal regulation of the gustatory processes .
dorsolateral placode that gives rise to the posterior lateral line .
a migrating group of cells originating from the posterior lateral line placode .
anatomical system that produces ,  transports and secretes peptides .
system that provides protection against foreign and abnormal cells and removes cellular debris .
paired fin that is located in the thoracic region of the body .
median fin that is located posterior to the anus .
supraneural located between vertebra 6 and 7 .
supraneural located between vertebra 5 and 6 .
supraneural located between  vertebra 4 and 5 .
supraneural located between vertebra 8 and 9 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to the neurocranium .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 1 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 2 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 3 .
thin ,  rod - shaped ,  anteroventrally directed membrane bone that develops as a separate outgrowth  from the cartilage parapophysis of the fourth vertebra ;  develops ventrally to curve around the anterior head of the swim bladder .
cartilaginous larval structure dorsal to the four anterior - most vertebrae ,  which forms the connection between neural arches and supraneurals in the weberian apparatus .
median fin that is located on the dorsal surface of the fish .
embryonic structure that is the dome of cytoplasm that segregates from the yolk toward the animal pole during and after the one cell - stage ,  and which undergoes cleavage .
embryonic structure that is composed of the cellular part of the embryo ,  excluding the yolk cell ,  derived from the blastodisc by early morphogenesis ;  refers particularly to the time when the cell array is sheet - like ,  between 30% - epiboly and the end of gastrulation .
the outer layer of the epidermis .
lower layer of the epidermis .
the tissue which lies between the basal stratum and the superficial stratum .
portion of the dermis characterized by a well - arranged ,  plywood - like ,  collagenous network .
outer portion of the dermis composed of a loose collagenous matrix housing numerous fibroblasts ,  nerves ,  some pigment cells ,  and scales .
paired fin located in the abdominal position of the body .
acellular anatomical structure that is a layer of collagen fibrils in the immature integument in a subepidermal space .
the weberian apparatus consists of the modified anteriormost four vertebrae and associated structures of otophysans which transduce sound or pressure waves from the tunica externa of the swim bladder to the inner ear  ( alexander ,  1962 )  .
all serially repeated ossified ,  cartilaginous ,  and ligamentous elements around the notochord  ( schultze and arratia ,  1988 )  .
the first four vertebrae ,  which are part of the weberian apparatus .
supraneural 2 is an ovoid cartilage or cartilage replacement bone located above centrum 2 .
supraneural 3 is an elongated cartilage or cartilage replacement bone above vertebrae 3 and 4 ,  developmentally fusing with na 3 and 4 .
supraneural located between vertebra 7 and 8 .
the anterior portion of the adenohypophysis .
caudal portion of the adenohypophysis .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the adenohypophysis .
brain structure which is a short stalk connecting the neurohypophysis with the brain .
islands of eosinic cells found on the lateroventral surface of the kidney .
multi - tissue structure that attach the zonules ,  that suspend the lens ,  to the eye .
meckel's cartilage is the bilaterally paired ,  rod - like ,  cartilaginous ventral component of the lower jaw ,  or ventral mandibular arch .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 1 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 2 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 7 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 6 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 5 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 4 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 3 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 8 .
multi - tissue structure that is paired ,  and is situated one on either side of and forming part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle .
tissue along the  lateral edges of the shield that is fated to develop into the hypochord .
embryonic structure ,  the part of the neural plate fated to become floor plate .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with more than one pharyngeal arch in the pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
copula that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with pharyngeal arches 3 - 5 .
copula that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with pharyngeal arches 6 - 7 .
basibranchial 1 ossifies posterior to the basihyal and anterior to the first hypobranchials in copula 1  ( 7 .6 mm )  .
basibranchial 2 ossifies in copula 1 posterior to the first hypobranchials and anterior to the second hypobranchials  ( 6 .8 mm )  .
basibranchial 3 ossifies in copula 1 posterior to the second hypobranchials ,  anterior to the third hypobranchials  ( 7 .6 mm )  and associated with pharyngeal arch 5 .
occasionally ,  a fourth basibranchial ossifies in the narrow copula 2 cartilage ,  which lies posterior to the third basibranchial and anterior to the anteromedial articulation of the fifth ceratobranchials .
skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the first pharyngeal arch .
anatomical cluster made up of skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the third pharyngeal arch ,  also called first  gill or branchial arch .
anatomical cluster made up of skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the seventh pharyngeal arch ,  also called fifth  gill or branchial arch .
anatomical cluster made up of skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the sixth pharyngeal arch ,  also called fourth gill or branchial arch .
anatomical cluster made up of skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the fourth pharyngeal arch ,  also called second  gill or branchial arch .
anatomical cluster made up of skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the fifth pharyngeal arch ,  also called third gill or branchial arch .
ossification that develops in the small hypobranchial cartilages that lie between the medial tips of the ceratobranchials and copula 1 .
tiny hypobranchial4 cartilages appear at anteromedial tips of ceratobranchial 4 ;  these are not obviously present in mature specimens ,  due either to resorption or fusion to the cartilaginous anterior tip of ceratobranchial .
ossifications  that develops in the small hypobranchial cartilages that lie between the medial tips of the ceratobranchials and copula 1 .
ossification that develop in the small hypobranchial cartilages that lie between the medial tips of the ceratobranchials and copula 1 .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 1 cartilage or bone and medially with the cartilage between the basibranchials .
ceratobranchial bone that is the most posterior ,  bilaterally paired ventral pharyngeal arch bone .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 4 cartilage or bone and medially with copula 2 .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 3 cartilage or bone and medially with the cartilage between the basibranchials .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 2 cartilage or bone and medially with the cartilage between the basibranchials .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 1 cartilage or bone .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and appears as a separate center of chondrification  ( 6 .2 mm )  posterior to the lateral tip of epibranchial 4 and immediately anterior to the upper end of ceratobranchial 5 .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 4 cartilage or bone .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 2 cartilage or bone .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 3 cartilage or bone .
the exocrine pancreas is a diffuse organ composed of a branching network of ducts and associated acinar glands that manufacture the proteolytic enzymes and bicarbonate required for digestion .
pharyngobranchial 2  ( misidentified as pharyngobranchial 1 in cubbage & mabee ,  1993 and mayden 1989 )  is present and separate from pharyngobranchial 3 .
pharyngobranchial cartilage which forms in close proximity to or fused with pharyngobranchial 3 ;  may not be distinguishable as a separate element in the adult .
pharyngobranchial bone of the fifth pharyngeal arch that lies approximately posteromedial to epibranchial 2 and medial to epibranchial 3 .
portion of tissue that is the lateral part of the floor plate .
portion of tissue that is the medial part of the floor plate and is located adjacent to the notochord .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomeres .
the zebrafish endocrine pancreas is an compound organ component composed of small groups of islet cells that are distributed throughout the exocrine pancreas .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
stage i follicles  ( less than 140 microns )  contain a stage 1 oocyte and are in the primary growth stage .
stage iv follicles  ( 690 - 730 microns )  contain a stage 4 oocyte and are considered mature .
stage ii follicles  ( 140 - 340 microns )  contain a stage 2 oocyte .
stage iii follicles  ( 340 - 690 microns )  contain a stage 3 oocyte .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the head .
is a duct part of the testis that carries sperm and fluid to the cloaca .
fin undergoing the process of regeneration .
a regenerating tissue composed of a proliferative mass of undifferentiated progenitor cells from which new differentiated structures arise .
the dorsal portion of the first pharyngeal arch ,  comprising the upper jaw .
the ventral portion of the first pharyngeal arch ,  comprising the lower jaw .
the coronomeckelian is a membrane bone that ossifies on meckel's cartilage where the tendon from the adductor mandibulae a3 inserts  ( 6 .1mm )  .
the anterior compartment of the swim bladder is thought to have acoustic resonance properties that play a key role in audition .
the posterior compartment of the swim bladder plays a key role in buoyancy control .
branchiostegal ray that is the most anterior ray which ossifies last  ( 5 .5 mm nl )  .
branchiostegal ray that is the most posterior ray which ossifies first  ( 3 .4 mm nl )  .
branchiostegal ray 2 is between rays 1 and 3 and ossifies second .
the anterior lobe of the hypophysis  ( pituitary gland )  .
anatomical space that is located in the center of the iris and allows light to impinge on the retina .
groove that is in the ventral optic cup and through which blood vessels pass to the enclosed mesenchyme .
blood vessels that connect the dorsal aorta or the posterior cardinal vein and the dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
post - vent vasculature which forms an interconnecting network of venous tubes .
renal duct that collects filtrate from the renal corpuscle and transports it to the collecting duct .
the multi - tissue structure where the glomerular basement membrane supported by mesonephric podocytes ,  filters blood from the glomerular capillaries .
proliferative region at the periphery of the retina where retinal stem cells are located .
the sensory ganglion of the facial nerve .
the stalk emanates from the diencephalic roof at a left - of - medial position .
neurogenic placodes that generate neurons of the distal facial ,  glossopharyngeal and vagal ganglia ,  which convey sensation from the viscera ,  including pharyngeal endoderm structures ,  to the cns .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to the facial ganglia .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglia .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to vagal ganglion 1 .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to vagal ganglion 2 .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to vagal ganglion 3 .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to vagal ganglion 4 .
muscle system of the pharyngeal region .
neurogenic placodes are transient ectodermal thickenings that form at the border of the neural plate and epidermis and give rise to sensory neurons of the cranial ganglia .
lateral neurogenic placodes positioned dorsal of the epibranchial placodes .
the posterior lateral line ganglion develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate the posterior lateral line system .
the part of the heart connecting the atrium to the cardiac ventricle .
dorsolateral placode that gives rise to the anterior lateral line .
the extracellular matrix between the myocardium and the endocardium .
a tract originating in the epiphysis and fasciculating with the tract of the postoptic commissure dorsal to the ventral flexure .
the terminal region of the mid intestine is comprised of specialized enterocytes that appear to play a role in mucosal immunity .
musculature of the gut .
paired ,  anteromedially directed processes from the neural arches ,  ligamentously joined to the postzygapophyses of the preceding vertebra .
epithelium which borders the anterior and equitorial region of the lens .
trunk musculature that is located in ventral wall of abdomen .
the layer within the retina where the bipolar cells synapse with the dendrites of the ganglion cells .
the layer within the retina where the bipolar cells synapse with the photoreceptor cells .
layer that separates the inner segment portions of the photo receptors from their cell nucleus .
presumptive structure fated to become enteric nervous system .
supradorsals are small paired nodules of cartilage positioned at the distal ends of neural arches and the proximal end of neural spines  ( arratia et al . ,  2001 )  .
neural spines are extensions of neural arches dorsal to the neural canal in the median skeletogenous septum .
folded tube that has parts intestinal bulb ,  mid intestine and posterior intestine .
telencephalic nucleus from which the axons of the anterior commissure originate .
the nucleus containing the cell bodies of neurons whose axons form the postoptic commissure .
a zone of delayed differentiation at the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the intervening zone .
boundary between the telencephalon and diencephalon .
the border between the dorsal and ventral thalamus .
an bilobed multi - tissue structure lateral to the notochord composed of an epithelium consisting of steroid producing cells interposed with chromaffin cells .
multi - tissue structure located in the kidney that develops into the interrenal gland .
layer of the optic tectum that is ventral to the stratum opticum and dorsal to the stratum griseum centrale ,  contains three sublaminae .
dorsalmost layer of the tectal neuropile that  does not receive direct retinal inputs ,  receives axonal projections from the torus longitudinalis .
portion of tissue that is the most superficial layer of the tectal neuropil closest to the eye target of the retinal axons .
has hypothalamic inputs .
the vascularized fibrous sheath that surrounds the central nervous system .
the terminal nerve ,  located anterior to cranial nerve i ,  is comprised of a group of cells with somata adjacent to the olfactory bulb and processes that extend anteriorly to the olfactory epithelium and posteriorly to the telencephalon .
portion of tissue that is ventrolateral to the roof plate and part of the midbrain .
roof plate that is part of the diencephalic region .
an unpaired left - sided accessory organ which plays a role in establishing lateral brain left right asymmetry .
basiventrals are bilaterally paired cartilages lateral to the notochord which are replaced by ossified parapophyses or hemal arches .
parapophyses are lateral or ventrolateral projections of vertebrae to which ribs are attached in danio rerio .
the neural complex is the collective term for the ossified supraneurals  ( sn 2 and sn 3 )  and their membrane bone extensions above the first four vertebrae  ( hoffmann and britz ,  2006 )  .
hemal spines are extensions of hemal arches in the ventral skeletogenous septum of the caudal region .
tract that extends from the postoptic commissure through a curved trajectory in the diencephalon into the ventral midbrain .
the boundary between the diencephalon and the mesencephalon .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the forebrain midbrain boundary .
pancreatic bud that develops from a ridge on the ventral side of the intestinal bulb primordium .
pancreatic bud that forms dorsal and adjacent to the developing intestine .
system responsible for the production and movement of pancreatic hormones and enzymes .
duct that collects and carries secretions of the exocrine pancreas .
cells that initially are located adjacent to the spinal cord and notochord that migrate from their initial medial position radially through the myotome to the lateral surface of the somites .
myocardium of the heart atrium .
a heart valve located between the ventricle and bulbus arteriosus .
region of the hypoblast that is located along the rostral - caudal axis of the embryo .
hypohyals are the most anterior of the bilaterally paired ventral hyoid arch elements .
epibranchials 1 - 3 in adults are compound elements formed by the fusion of epibranchial cartilages and the so - called uncinate processes .
surface structure that develops into a paired fin .
fin bud that develops into the pelvic fin .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the pelvic fin bud .
mesoderm part of pelvic fin bud .
skeleton that supports the pelvic fin .
epithelium of the regenerating fin that is formed as part of the healing process .
embryonic structure that develops from the pancreas primordium and develops into the pancreas .
the anterior lateral line ganglia develops from cranial ectodermal placodes and contain sensory neurons that innervate the anterior lateral line system .
lateral projections from the first centrum in cyprinids ,  absent in catostomids ,  and absent in characiphysans  ( fink and fink ,  1996 )  .
lateral projection from the second centrum ,  absent in siluriformes  ( fink and fink ,  1996 )  .
neural arch 3 is expanded and fused to supraneural 3 as part of a neural complex roofing and protecting the neural canal .
neural arch 4 is expanded and fused to supraneural 3 as part of the neural complex .
the parapophysis  +  rib ,  fused to the centrum ,  extends laterally then angles anteroventrally .
posterior to the weberian apparatus ,  otophysan supraneurals form as median ,  unpaired ,  rod -  or platelike elements ,  as in other actinopterygians .
cartilage that is the dorsal component of the first pharyngeal arch .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is bilaterally paired and the largest cartilaginous component of the ventral hyoid arch .
dermal bone that first appears as paired ossifications in the membrane  ( dermis )  dorsolateral to the ethmoid cartilage and anteriolateral to the lateral ethmoids ,  later having the appearance of one butterfly - shaped element .
small rounded to egg - shaped cartilage bone that sits in an anteriolateral depression on the prevomer .
bilaterally paired neurocranium cartilage which is initially plate - like and formed from the anterior fusion between the bilaterally paired trabecula cranii .
small median unpaired dermal sesamoid bone in the premaxillary - ethmoid ligament between the mesethmoid and the premaxilla that enhances the protractability of the upper jaw .
plate like dermal bone ,  variable in size ,  though usually one of the smallest in the series .
plate like dermal bone ,  variable in size ,  but usually largest in the series .
plate like dermal bone .usually fused with infraorbital 3 .
a pair of small dish - shaped bones that cap the anterior and posterior margin of the eyeball .
cartilage bone that contacts the pterotic anteriorly ,  the supraoccipital and parietal dorsally ,  and the exoccipital ventrally .
anatomical cluster that is located in the posterior region of the cranium and forms the margin of the foramen magnum and occipital condyle .
second radial of the pelvic fin .
third radial of the pelvic fin .
first radial of the pelvic fin .
lepidotrichium which is part of the dorsal fin .
a range of seven to nine rod - like internal median skeletal support structures of the dorsal fin ,  comprised of both bone and cartilage and found between vertebrae 11 and 18 .
a range of twelve to fourteen rod - like internal median skeletal support structures of the anal fin ,  comprised of both bone and cartilage and found between vertebrae 14 and 21 .
lepidotrichium which is part of the anal fin .
bilaterally paired large cartilage that articulates with the chondrocranium dorsally ,  the opercle posteriorly ,  and the palatoquadrate cartilage anteriorly .
rod - shaped paired cartilages on either side of the notochord .
anatomical cluster that is part of the cranium and composed of cartilage and cartilage replacement bones .
nares that form at 40 - 44dpf that open to the posterior region of the olfactory pit allowing water to exit the pit .
nares that form at 40 - 44dpf that open to the anterior region of the olfactory pit allowing water to enter the pit .
the highly folded olfactory epithelium .
ventral hindbrain nuclei just caudal to the interpeduncular nucleus .
a duct connecting the esophagus to the posterior chamber of the swim bladder .
sclerotic bone that is located anterior to the eye .
sclerotic bone that is located posterior to the eye .
floor plate that is part of the neural tube .
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
roof plate that is part of the neural tube .
the constriction between the anterior and posterior chambers of the swim bladder .
the interface between the dorsal neuroepithelium and the roof plate of the fourth ventricle .
posterior portion of the rhombic lip contained within rhombomeres 2 - 8 .
anterior - most region of dorsal hindbrain within rhombomere 1 ,  adjacent the midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
a tuft of capillaries that project into the ventricles of the brain and secretes cerebral spinal fluid .
choroid plexus that is part of the third ventricle .
choroid plexus that is part of the tectal ventricle .
choroid plexus that is part of the fourth ventricle .
choroid plexus that is part of the telencephalic ventricle .
glands that produce calcitonin .in adult fish the glands lie as two groups of follicles at the transverse septum close to the sinus venosus .
mesenchyme that is part of the pelvic fin .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the pelvic fin .
a small group of mesodermal cells located at the posterior margin of the developing fin bud .
a small group of mesodermal cells located at the posterior margin of the developing fin bud .
embryonic region that develops into the pectoral fin bud .
portion of tissue in the pelvic region that develops into the pelvic fin bud .
the cartilage from which both the scapula and coracoid develop .
a plate - like chondrogenic condensation within the pectoral fin ,  which subdivides into individual radials by decomposition of extracellular matrix in the inter - radial mesenchyme  ( grandel and schulte - merker ,  1998 )  .
cartilage which is part of the axial skeleton .
cartilage which is part of the cranium .
cartilage which is part of the pelvic fin .
cartilage that is part of the chondrocranium .
surface structure composed of an array of melanophores arranged in a stripe .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell bodies reside .
layer of the retina composed of the inner segments of the photoreceptor cells .
layer of the retina composed of the outer segments of the photoreceptor cells .
the anterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  situated between the eye and the ear ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the anterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
the lateral line consists of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  located superficially on the skin or just under the skin in fluid - filled canals on the head and body of all fishes and most amphibians .
the anterior lateral line consists of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  located superficially on the skin or just under the skin in fluid - filled canals on the head of all fishes and most amphibians .
the posterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  situated behind the ear ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the posterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
neuromast that is part of the anterior lateral line .
cells  ( completely cleaved )  ,  located underneath the superficial blastomeres and internal to the marginal blastomeres .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
cranial nerves that carry afferent and efferent fibers for the lateral line system .
lateral line nerve that originates within the dorsal anterior lateral line ganglion and innervates the otic ,  supraorbital ,  and infraorbital neuromasts .
lateral line nerve that originates within the ventral anterior lateral line ganglion and innervates the mandibular and opercular neuromasts .
nerve fibers originating from the middle lateral line ganglion .
the middle lateral line ganglion develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate the middle lateral line .
cells  ( completely cleaved )  ,  located at the surface of the blastodisc ,  above the deep blastomeres .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
compound organ that does not contain macroscopic anatomical spaces .
multi - tissue structure that is not part of a compound organ .
simple columnar epithelium that lines the esophagus .
bilaterally paired cartilage encasing the semicircular canals of the inner ear .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
bilaterally paired medial bar of cartilage formed at midorbit through medial chondrification from triangles of cartilage that later form the junction of the taeniae marginales anterior ,  taeniae marginales posterior and the epiphyseal bar .
cranial cartilage which is bilaterally paired and develops as a dorsal plate - like projection of the anteriolateral ethmoid plate ,  which are oriented perpendicular to the ethmoid plate .
cranial cartilage which is a paired anterodorsal projection of the posterior end of the parachordal cartilage .
cartilage bar  ( bilaterally paired )  that grows anteroventrally from the epiphyseal bar to join the anteriolateral edge of the ethmoid plate .
unpaired thin dorsal sheet of cartilage that partially covers the posterior chondrocranium .
paired thin medially aligned bar of cartilage that extends from the anterior end of the chondrocranium to just anterior to the anterior end of the notochord .
cartilage formed via medial fusion between bilaterally paired trabecula cranii .
bilaterally paired thin continuous band of cartilage that sagitally encircles the eye .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is median and is the anterior - most cartilage of the ventral hyoid arch .
the interhyal is a small rod - like element that connects the ventral and dorsal parts of the hyoid arch .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
cartilage bar  ( bilaterally paired )  that is first visible as an anterior extension of the auditory capsule .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that forms the largest skeletal element of the ventral branchial arches .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 2 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 3 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 4 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial cartilage that forms between hypobranchial 1 and epibranchial 1 .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is the most posterior ,  bilaterally paired ventral pharyngeal arch cartilage .
small rod - like cartilage that forms between the median copulae and the ceratobranchial cartilages .
small cartilage that forms at the anteromedial tip of ceratobranchial 4 ;  these are not obviously present in mature specimens ,  due either to resorption or fusion to the cartilaginous anterior tip of ceratobranchial 4 .
small cartilage that forms at the anteromedial tip of ceratobranchial 1 ,  lateral to copula 1 .
small cartilage that forms at the anteromedial tip of ceratobranchial 2 ,  lateral to copula 1 .
small cartilage that forms at the anteromedial tip of ceratobranchial 3 ,  lateral to copula 1 .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is bilaterally paired small rod - like cartilage which articulates laterally with ceratobranchial cartilage or bone .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 1 cartilage or bone and the medial end of pharyngobranchial 1 .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 3 cartilage or bone and the medial end of pharyngobranchial 3 .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 2 cartilage or bone and the medial end of pharyngobranchial 2 .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 4 cartilage or bone and the medial end of pharyngobranchial 4 .
paired cartilages that project medially from the medial tips of epibranchials .
paired elongate cartilages that lie posteromedial to epibranchial 2 and medial to epibranchial 3 .
paired disc - like cartilage lying medial to and between the medial tips of epibranchials 1 and 2 .
cartilage that develops initially on the medial side of the coraco - scapular cartilage .
small cartilage that forms at the posterior edge of the basipterygium .
bilaterally paired small ,  rodlike cartilages on the ventral surface of the abdomen  ( present at 7 .9 mm )  .
small cartilage that forms at the posterior and medial edge of the basipterygium .
small cartilage with a long posterior process and a shorter lateral one that forms at the posterior edge of the basipterygium ,  between radial cartilages 1 and 2 .
small cartilage that forms at the posterior and lateral edge of the basipterygium .
cartilage which is part of one of the paired fins .
lepidotrichium which is part of the caudal fin .
lepidotrichium which is part of the pectoral fin ,  forming the pectoral fin skeleton and articulating with the pectoral radials .
lepidotrichium which is part of the pelvic fin .
dermal bone that is rod - like ,  formed and usually contained in a fin membrane ,  and jointed to or adjacent to distal radials .
cranial ganglion which develops from an epibranchial placode .
trunk ganglion which is part of a bilaterally paired set of sympathetic ganglia located anterior and lateral to the spinal cord .
paired highly vascularized structures of the pronephros which are fused at the midline .
bilaterally paired tubes connecting the pronephric glomeruli to the pronephric ducts .
ventral most hypural of the caudal fin .
hypural of the caudal fin dorsal to hypural 1 .
hypural dorsal to hypural 2 that supports the upper lobe of the caudal fin .
hypural dorsal to hypural 3 that supports the upper lobe of the caudal fin .
dorsal - most hypural ,  that supports the upper lobe of the caudal fin .
oocyte part of stage ii ovarian follicle .
oocyte part of stage iii ovarian follicle .
oocyte part of stage i ovarian follicle .
oocyte part of stage iv ovarian follicle .
oocyte part of stage v ovarian follicle .
a female gamete where meiosis has progressed to metaphase ii and is able to participate in fertilization .
a follicle that has undergone ovulation and no longer contains an oocyte .
trunk ganglion which is bilaterally paired and located at the anterior end of the sympathetic ganglion chain .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
nervous system that innervates smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands .
autonomic nervous system where the cell bodies lie in the brain and sacral region of the spinal cord .
autonomic nervous system that originates beginning at the thoracic and lumbar areas of the spinal cord .
process of the premaxilla that extends posteriorly and overlays the mesethmoid .
in cypriniforms the anterior portion of the palatine has a dorsomedial process which abuts against the mesethmoid .
ural vertebra that is the second vertebra posterior to preural centrum 1 .
anatomical cluster that is the regional skeletal system surrounding the brain .
a vertebral centrum that is located immediately posterior to ural centrum 1 .
precaudal vertebra that is not a weberian vertebra .
vertebra which is the fused centra of preural 1 and ural 1 .
caudal fin lepidotrichium that is located anterior to the principal caudal fin rays .
caudal fin lepidotrichium that is adjacent to a branched ray .
radial which develops from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc ,  supports the pectoral lepidotrichia or fin rays and connects the lepidotrichia with the primary pectoral girdle .
pectoral fin radial which develops from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc ,  supports a few pectoral lepidotrichia or fin rays and connects the lepidotrichia and distal radials with the primary pectoral girdle  ( scapula and coracoid )  .
pectoral fin radial ,  develops from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc ,  and is located at the proximal region of a lepidotrichium ,  between its hemitrichia .
the propterygium is the lateralmost or anteriormost basal cartilage that originates from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
intramembranous bone that forms superficially in the organism .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
bone that is bilaterally paired endochondral bone with extensions of membrane bone forming part of a dorsolateral protective wall around the neural canal between the back of the skull and the beginning of the neural arch series .
an endochondral bone that is the ventral ,  posteriorly - oriented bony extension of the quadrate .
a dermal bone that is the lower ,  horizontal portion of the preopercle bone .
a dermal bone that is the upper ,  vertical portion of the preopercle bone .
anatomical cluster which consists of two or more adjacent bones or cartilages ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue .
endochondral bone which is the posteroventral region of the exoccipital bone .
endochondral bone which is the posterodorsal region of the basioccipital bone .
neural spine that is located on the fourth vertebra .
anterior branch of the intercalarium .
bony process that develops as a dorsally  projecting cartilaginous extension from the basidorsal .
portion of the intercalarium that  ossifies from the cartilage condensation and articulates with a groove in centrum 2 .
surface structure that is the dorsal portion of the caudal fin .
surface structure that is the ventral portion of the caudal fin .
the second pharyngeal arch ,  also known as the hyoid arch ,  forms jaw support structures .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
endocardium that is part of the atrioventricular canal .
portion of organism substance composed of calcium carbonate located in the otolith organ and positioned over a sensory macula ;  two form in each vesicle during the late segmentation period .
fiber layer adjacent the retinal ganglion cell layer which is comprised of their axons as they traverse to the optic nerve .
most anterior portion of the pronephric duct  ( or tubule as described by wingert et al ,  2007 )  .
portion of the pronephric duct  ( or tubule as described by wingert et al ,  2007 )  which is just posterior to the proximal convoluted tubule .
portion of the pronephric duct  ( or tubule as described by wingert et al ,  2007 )  which is just posterior to the proximal straight tubule .
most posterior portion of the pronephric duct  ( or tubule as described by wingert et al ,  2007 )  which ends at the cloacal chamber at the pronephric duct opening .
portion of the pronephric duct  ( or tubule as described by wingert et al ,  2007 )  which is just posterior to the distal early tubule .
portion of cranial nerve ii where large fascicles of axons from the optic fiber layer come together prior to leaving the eye .
portion of organism substance that is a clear fluid that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain .
anatomical cluster that consists of a bulla formed by the exoccipital and basioccipital bones ,  and surrounds the lagena .
bone that forms as a replacement of another structural tissue .
replacement bone that forms within the connective tissue surrounding the notochord .
replacement bone that forms within the connective tissue surrounding cartilage .
perichordal bone that surrounds the anterior tip of the notochord .
portion of tissue that consists of mesodermally derived cells and intercellular matrix comprised of protein fibers and carbohydrates ,  which supports ,  ensheathes and binds together other tissues .
portion of connective tissue which surrounds the notochord .
portion of connective tissue which surrounds cartilage .
bone that forms directly within mesenchyme ,  and does not replace other tissues .
intramembranous bone that forms deep in the organism .
portion of connective tissue that is an extension of a bone .
simple squamous epithelium which lines blood and lymphatic vessels and the heart .
ventral bend in the brain occurring caudal to the adenohypophyseal placode .
neural arch on the urostyle .
anatomical cluster consisting of adjacent teeth constituting a row .
cartilage of the lower jaw that give rise to a portion of the anguloarticular compound bone .
dermal bone that is located posterior to the dentary and lateral to the articular and retroarticular bones of the lower jaw .
internal skeletal supports of the anal fin .
internal skeletal supports of the dorsal fin .
neural crest that migrates into the pharyngeal arches and heart ,  forming connective tissue that separates the vessels of the heart .
anatomical cluster that is the series of dermal bones associated with the infraorbital sensory canal located under and posterior to the eye .
head muscle that originates on the anterior region of the cleithrum and inserts on the urohyal .
muscle which is part of the head .
muscle which is paired and runs anterio - posteriorly along the heart and is covered with epicardium .
anatomical space which is located beneath the operculum and external to the gills .
anatomical space which contains the abdominal visceral and swim bladder .
cns tract / commissure which extends between the telencephalon and diencephalon and lies along the dorsal edge of the optic stalk .
nucleus located within the hindbrain .
brain nucleus part of the diencephalon .
diencephalic nucleus which is located in the caudal tuberculum .
the portion of tissue that is the initial segment of one of the cranial nerves leaving the central nervous system .
nucleus located in the midbrain .
telencephalic nucleus which is in contact with the median ependymal lining of the ventricle and consists of the dorsal ,  ventral ,  supracommissural and postcommissural nuclei of the ventral telencephalon .
telencephalic nucleus which has migrated away from the ependyma and consists of the central ,  lateral nuclei and the dorsal and ventral entopeduncular nuclei .
peripheral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon which is located immediately lateral to the dorsal nucleus of the ventral telencephalon .
diencephalic nucleus which is located between the dorsal hypothalamus and the caudal tuberal nucleus and does not contain tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells .
portion of tissue that is the part of the notochord located in the caudal fin .
epithelium that is the primary epithelium of the developing inner ear and has anterior and posterior maculae as its parts .
portion of tissue that grows in from the dorsolateral wall of the otic vesicle ,  forming a dorsolateral partition between the developing anterior and posterior semicircular canals .
podocyte that is part of the pronephros .
podocyte that is part of the kidney  ( mesonephros )  .
portion of connective tissue that is a fibrous band connecting bones or cartilages or supporting an organ .
ligament that is in the eye and is located at the angle between the cornea and the iris .
floor plate that is part of the midbrain .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the preoptic area .
multi - tissue comprised of neurons ,  dendrites ,  axon terminals ,  glial cells ,  and capillaries .
multi - tissue structure comprised largely of myelinated axons .
acellular anatomical structure that is the zone of condensed collagen fibers underneath the basement membrane of the corneal epithelium that overlays the corneal stroma layer .
portion of tissue that is located basal to bowman's layer and distal to descemet's membrane and is comprised largely of connective tissue .
acellular anatomical structure composed of collagen ,  descemet's membrane is secreted as a basement membrane of the corneal endothelium .
anatomical structure that delineates a furrow or depression in an organ or tissue .
granule cell that is part of the cerebellum .
cns white matter that crosses the midline within the hindbrain .
replacement bone that forms within or surrounding a cartilaginous skeletal element .
granule cell that is part of the olfactory bulb .
motor nucleus of vagal nerve that is located within the dorsolateral portion of rhombomere 8 .
motor nucleus of vagal nerve that is located within the medial portion of rhombomere 8 .
hindbrain nucleus which consists of cell bodies whose axons exit the hindbrain via cranial nerve viii and innervate hair cells of the lateral line and inner ear .
octaval nerve motor nucleus that is initially located within rhombomere 6 .
octaval nerve motor nucleus that is initially located within rhombomere 7 .
multi - tissue structure that is the external layer of the swim bladder that is covered by the peritoneum ,  and made of elastic fibres and ichthyocol  ( short needles of collagen )  .
multi - tissue structure that is the internal layer of the swim bladder and is comprised of thin endoderm and a smooth muscle layer called the muscularis mucosa with longitudinal and circular fibres with some collagen .
proliferative region that is part of the developing fin fold or fin .
portion of tissue that is a thickening and reshaping of the epidermal basal stratum cells beneath which fibroblasts accumulate to form the scale primordium .
a portion of tissue that gives rise to the scale .
duct that is part of the inner ear and connects to the semicircular canals ending in the endolymphatic sac .
portion of tissue that is part of the corpus cerebelli and contains purkinje cells .
cns white matter that is part of the cerebellum .
portion of tissue that is part of the valvula cerebelli and contains purkinje cells .
portion of tissue that consists of afferent axons from the spinal cord ,  sensory medullary nuclei ,  reticular nuclei and dorsal tegmental nuclei into the corpus cerebelli and valvula cerebelli ,  where they synapse within the granule cell layer .
portion of tissue that consists of afferent axons from the inferior olive and synapsing with purkinje cells within the molecular layer of the valvula cerebelli and corpus cerebelli .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the bulbus arteriosus .
portion of tissue that consists of axons of cerebellar granule cells that synapse onto purkinje cell dendrites .
portion of presumptive mesoderm fated to become ventral mesoderm .
portion of tissue within the otic vesicle that consists of a thin layer of otic epithelium covering a finger - shaped core of acellular matrix .
otic vesicle protrusion that is initially ventrally located and then fuses with the lateral protrusion ,  giving rise to the pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
portion of tissue around which the semicircular canals flow .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the primitive heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the primitive heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the atrioventricular canal .
a glial cell that develops from a schwann cell precursor .
artery that extends horizontally across the brain midline which is fed by the caudal division of the internal carotid artery .
an artery that connects caudal division of the internal carotid artery and the basal communicating artery to the basilar artery .
artery that runs along the ventral keel of the hindbrain .
artery that is part of the pharyngeal arches .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 1 .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 2 .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 3 .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 4 .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 5 .
the mesencephalic veins  ( msv )  enter the mid cerebral veins  ( mcev )  at the dorsal midline .
a vascular loop attached to the efferent part of the mandibular arch that forms at 3 .5 dpf .
artery that enters the gill filament .
the branch of the afferent branchial artery that continues posterodorsally .
the anteroventral proceeding branch of the afferent branchial artery .
arterioles which take blood from the afferent filamental arteries to the gill lamella .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 6 .
the vessel between the anterior cerebral vein and the mid cerebral vein .
artery that exits the gill filament .
arterioles which take blood from the gill lamella to the efferent  filamental arteries .
artery that irrigates the forebrain and midbrain .
extend upward from the pcs ,  branch to provide an arterial feed to the hindbrain ,  then drain back down into the phbc .
the opercular artery arises from the hyoid stump on the first aortic arch ,  then follows the lateral margin of the operculum  ( gill covering )  ventrally to reconnect into the proximal part of the first aortic arch .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around trunk .
paired trunk vessels that run medially along the dorsal - most portion of the trunk and post - vent region .
main route for venous drainage of the anterior and mid cerebral veins as well as portions of the primordial hindbrain channel .
vein that drains the dorsal longitudinal vessel and the caudal portions of the venous capillary network of the medulla oblongata .
region where blood progenitor markers are expressed .
hematopoietic tissue derived from the cephalic mesoderm .
vein that branches off the nasal ciliary artery .
vessel that connects to the primitive hindbrain channel and the basilar artery at the caudal end of the medulla oblongata .
vein that connects to the hyaloid vein that drains the eye .
is an pair of arteries that form from the intersegmental vessels at the level of the base of the spinal cord ,  adjacent to the myotome .
vessels run longitudinally along the horizontal myoseptum .
vein that drains the vascular plexus of the midgut and hindgut .
a continuation of the anterior mesenteric artery ,  which branches out from the dorsal aorta  just caudal to the pronephric glomus .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the post - vent region .
an ectopic melanophore accumulation analogous to a nevi  ( mole )  in humans .
the artery that carries blood to the eye .
artery that is internal to the eye .
vessels that are associated with the posterior region of the lens .
vein internal to the eye .
vessel that branches from cranial division of the internal carotid artery ,  extending laterally around the rostral end of the head .
after the primitive prosencephalic artery forms it becomes disconnected from the  cranial division of the internal carotid artery and instead it connects to the anterior mesencephalic central artery and the communicating vessels of the palatocerebral artery .
the pla branches ventrally from the crdi .
connect the palatocerebral artery with the prosencephalic artery .
arteries that irrigate rostral regions of the midbrain .
artery that branches off the cranial division of the internal carotid artery .
vessel that circles the inner rim of the optic capsule .
drains the pla loop proceeds straight caudally along the cranial midline just above the pharynx ,  just below the diencephalon .
vein that drains the median palatocerebral vein into the optic vein .
the external layer of the ventricle bounding the ventricular myocardium .
the layer of the myocardium composed of projections of contractile myocytes .
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
the outer layer the ventricular myocardium ,  muscle  fibers are arranged in a compact form and involved the entire ventricle .
anatomical system located in the heart that initiates and propagates heart contraction .
the atrioventricular valve has four distinct leaflets oriented anterior ,  posterior ,  left ,  and right of the atrioventricular orifice .
multi - tissue structure composed of leaflets that separate parts of the heart ,  preventing blood backflow .
the portion of tissue that is the outer layer of the bulbus arteriosus .
composed of 7 - 10 layers of helically arranged smooth muscle cells surrounded by a fine network of collagen ,  reticular ,  and elastic fibrils .
composed of subendothelium with longitudinally oriented collagen ,  reticular fibrils ,  elastic fibers ,  and smooth muscle cells bound by a thin endothelial layer .
portion of tissue containing  3 and 30 cells  in dorsal right quadrant of atrium that initiate heart beat .
the portion of tissue in the atrioventricular canal that slows impulse propagation between the atrium and cardiac ventricle .
a portion of endocardial tissue that is part of the atrioventricular ring .
a ring of conduction tissue that forms in the atrioventricular canal .
cardiac conduction system ,  characterized by slow impulse propagation and prolonged refractory periods .
portion of the cardiac conduction system ,  with rapid impulse propagation .
projects rostrally and dorsally from the amcta to irrigate the midportion of the midbrain .
project dorsally from bca to irrigate the caudal part of midbrain .
an artery deep in the trunk that connects the dorsal aorta to the supraintestinal artery .
artery that originates as rostral extensions of the dorsal aorta and travels through the hypophyseal fossa into the cranium .
branch of the nasal ciliary artery  ( nca )  that splits off of the nca near the lens and forms the dorsal ciliary vein .
these arteries branch dorsally from both sides of the posterior communicating artery looping up to join with the opposite mta as well as with both middle cerebral veins at the dorsal midline of the head .
the nasal arteries start at the internal carotid artery and travel rostrally ,  passing along the right and left walls of the nasal sac at the most rostral end of the head .
the pectoral  ( subclavian )  arteries originate from the dorsal aorta and takes the blood outward into the fin from the paired portion of the dorsal aorta posterior to the last aortic arch  < a href='http: /  / zfin .org / zf_info / zfbook / stages / hatch .html' >  kimmel et al .
vein from the pectoral fin that drains into the acv just cranial to the acv - ccv junction .
branch ventrally from the dorsal aorta and anastomose longitudinally along the dorsal wall of the hindgut ,  forming the caudal part of the supraintestinal artery .
an elaborate set of vessels that branch off caudally from the anterior mesenteric artery just after the dorsal aorta .
vein that collects blood from the small intestine ,  pancreas and spleen and routes it through the liver .
wide thin - walled blood vessels in the liver .
paired veins that sprout from the dorsal midline junction and dive ventrally .
vein that  is fed by the nasal artery .
is an ocular vasculature that develops adjacent to the pigment epithelium of the eye .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the fin .
vasculature of the pectoral fin .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the caudal fin .
artery that is positioned in the intraray mesenchyme between the hemirays of the lepidotrichia .
vein that flanks and is just lateral to the fin ray ,  in the interray mesenchyme .
vessels that travel between artery and veins or vein and vein in a single ray .
vessels that travel between veins in adjacent rays .
stripe of tissue fated to become the median fin fold .
stripe of tissue on the ventral side of the fish ,   fated to become the ventral region of the median fin fold .
stripe of tissue on the dorsal side of the fish ,  fated to become the dorsal region of the median fin fold .
a network of blunt ended vessels lacking direct connection to the blood vascular system .
lymph vessel that connects the lateral facial lymph vessel to the thoracic duct near the common cardinal vein .
the thoracic duct is the first perfused lymphatic ,  located between the dorsal aorta and posterior cardinal vein .
tract that originates in the telencephalon lies medial to the lateral forebrain bundle and extends into the diencephalon approaching the posterior tuberal nucleus .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva .
neuromast that is part of the dorsal lateral line .
the middle lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the middle lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
primordium that forms the first neuromasts of the posterior lateral line .
second lateral line primordium .these primordia move at 0 .2 somites / hour and deposit neuromasts that are polarized in a dorso - ventral direction .
a migrating group of cells originating from an anterior lateral line placode .
a migrating group of cells originating from the middle lateral line placode .
a surface structure that will eventually grow to form a barbel .
the serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity .
dorsolateral placode that gives rise to the middle lateral line .
dorsal region of the axial hypoblast .
epithelium lining the lumen of the gut .
simple columnar epithelium that lines the intestine ,  sometimes pseudostratified ,  with absorptive brush - border cells and mucous goblet cells clearly visible .
the entire digestive tract is lined by well developed villi ,  which are longest in the intestinal bulb and decrease progressively in size towards the caudal end of the intestine .
intestinal epithelium which lines the lumen of the intestinal bulb .
intestinal epithelium which lines the lumen of the mid intestine .
intestinal epithelium which lines the lumen of the posterior intestine .
a double layer composed of peritoneum that attaches the visceral organs to the body wall .
the mesentery that originates from the dorsal side of the peritoneal cavity .
the peritoneum that lines the walls of the peritoneal cavity .
the part of peritoneum that is a serous membrane covers the external surfaces of most abdominal organs .
the mesentery that originates from the ventral side of the peritoneal cavity .
epithelium that is part of a developing tooth or dental organ .
epithelium that surrounds a primary tooth .
inner layer of the dental organ ,  composed of ameloblasts .
outer layer of the dental organ .
a structure that is involved in tooth formation .
mesenchyme enclosed by dental organ .
tissue of the developing tooth .
material in the center of the dentine of the mature tooth .
a dentine - like hypermineralized substance that covers the zebrafish tooth tip .
mineralized collagen containing substance that forms the tooth structure .
nerve that is a branch of cranial nerve viii and innervates the cristae ampullaris .
portion of tissue composed of contractile fibers .
an area of medulla oblongata ,  outside the blood - brain barrier .
a portion of tissue that is regrowing after damage or amputation .
part of the regeneration epithelium closest to the fin .
part of regeneration epithelium at the tip of the fin .
layer of the wound epidermis that surrounds the blastema .
iridescent iridophore containing gold reflecting platelets .
iridescent iridophore containing silver reflecting platelets .
is a joint where the ends of two bones are connected by cartilage .
a joint where fibrous tissue such as ligament connects two calcified tissues .
tela chorioidea that lines the tectal ventricle .
tela chorioidea that lines the fourth ventricle .
tela chorioidea that lines the third ventricle .
tela chorioidea that lines the telencephalic ventricle .
artery that supplies blood to the liver .
intercellular space surrounded by the basal surface of the hepatocytes that collect bile .
digestive system duct that collects bile from the canaliculus and transports bile through the liver .
digestive system duct that collects bile from the hepatic bile duct and the cystic duct .
duct that connects the gall bladder and the common bile duct .
ampulla formed by the union of the pancreatic duct and the common bile duct where they enter the intestine .
vein that is central to a lobule in the liver .
duct that collects bile from the bile ductules and connects to the extrahepatic bile duct .
bile duct that collects from the intrahepatic ducts and feeds into the common bile duct .
portion of the liver which develops on the fish's left side .
portion of the liver which develops on the fish's right side adjacent to the gall bladder .
portion of the liver which develops on the fish's ventral side .
an interneuron in the spinal cord .
an interneuron of the spinal cord .
an interneuron of the spinal cord .
an interneuron of the spinal cord .
a primary motor neuron that is part of the spinal cord .
a primary motoneuron that is part of the spinal cord .
a primary motor neuron of the spinal cord .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 5 with one dorsal neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron ,  part of rhombomere 5 ,  with one dorsal ,  caudal - lateral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron ,  part of rhombomere 5 ,  with one dorsal ,  caudal - medial neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
a bifurcate interneuron .it is a commissural neuron with both ascending and descending axons in the ventrolateral cord contralateral to its cell body .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 4 ,  with one medial neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 4 with one rostral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 5 with one rostral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 4 with six ventral neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 5 with five ventral neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 with two intermediate - caudal  neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 with one intermediate - rostral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 1 with twelve neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron ,  part of rhombomere 6 ,  with one caudal - lateral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron ,  part of rhombomere 6 ,  with one caudal - medial neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 6 with one dorsal neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 with 4 lateral neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
a rol2 interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 .
a rol2 interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 3 with 1 lateral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 1 with one medial - caudal neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 1 with one medial - rostral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 3 with three ventral neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 with one medial - lateral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 with one medial neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 3 with one lateral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 32 with two medial neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
is a cns interneuron that is part of the hindbrain .
cns interneurons located in the midbrain .
midbrain interneuron in the lateral midbrain .
midbrain interneuron located in the medial midbrain .
midbrain interneuron at the rostral position in the lateral midbrain .
midbrain interneuron at the caudal position in the lateral midbrain .
midbrain interneuron at the medial position in the lateral midbrain .
midbrain interneuron located in the medial midbrain .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 7 ,  with 2 ventral neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 7 ,  with 1 dorsal neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
cranial vasculature where the posterior cerebral veins and the trans - choroid plexus branch form a circuit around the 4th ventricle choroid plexus .
a melanophore stripe that forms the immature pigment pattern .
a larval melanophore stripe that forms a band extending from the head to the tail along the dorsal apex of the myotomes .
a larval melanophore stripe that forms a band ,  of pigmentation extending from the bases of the eyes on each side of the midline to the top of the tail ,  that underlies the myotomes bilaterally ,  still is dorsal to the yolk .
the larval melanophore stripe that is at the level of the horizontal myoseptum .
the larval melanophore stripe that forms a band over the ventral surface of the yolk sac .
lip that covers the upper portion of the mouth .
a group of about 20 cells deposited by the migrating lateral line primordium .
a bifurcate interneuron where the axon projects ventrally ,  crossing the spinal cord  ventral to the mauthner axons before bifurcating and extending dorsally .
is a spinal interneuron that has an axon that splits into roughly equal size branches .
a multipolar  interneuron with branching dendrites .
a interneuron of the spinal cord with an ipsilateral axon that extends ventral to the mauthner axon then turns dorsally  and caudally and sometimes has a minor ascending branch .
a spinal interneuron with a dorsal dendrite that extends caudally .
a unipolar spinal interneuron that forms dendritic trunk laterally with extensive dendritic branching .
a nucleated immature erythrocyte ,  having cytoplasm generally similar to that of the earlier proerythroblast but sometimes even more basophilic ,  and usually regular in outline .
a nucleated precursor of an erythrocyte .
a smooth muscle cell that synthesizes ,  stores ,  and secretes the enzyme renin .
is a specialized pore forming cell of the follicle ,  located adjacent to the animal pole of the oocyte .
kolmer - agduhr neurons are ciliated gabaergic neurons that contact the central canal of the spinal cord and have ipsilateral ascending axons .
a nucleated ,  immature erythrocyte in which the nucleus occupies a relatively smaller part of the cell than in its precursor ,  the basophilic erythroblast .
a ciliated epithelial cell with many cilia .
a ciliated epithelial cell with a single cilium .
a non - sensory cell that extends from the basement membrane to the apical surface of the auditory epithelium and provides support for auditory hair cells .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a xanthophore .
is a fibroblast that differentiates from the de - differentiated cells of the blastema .
interneurons of the spinal cord that arise from the v1 proliferation domain .
vein segment that connects the pcevs in the choroid plexus .
microvessel of the lymphatic system lined with a single layer of overlapping endothelial cells .
simple squamous epithelium that lines the capsule of the renal glomerulus .
portion of tissue that encapsulates the glomerulus of the renal corpuscle .
a portion of tissue formed between the base of the intestinal villi that is part of the intestinal epithelium where intestinal stem cells are located .
the vascular endothelium that lines the lymph vessels .
blood vessel endothelium that has tight junctions between the endothelial cells .
blood vessel endothelium that has pores that allow passage small molecules and proteins .
fenestrated blood vessel endothelium with pores that are large enough for blood cells to pass .
caudal procurrent ray that is dorsally located on the caudal fin skeleton .
caudal procurrent ray that is ventrally located on the caudal fin skeleton .
ligament that connects the maxilla with the lower jaw .
ligament that connects the premaxilla to the maxilla .
muscle that moves parts of the body in a superior direction to an erect position .
a muscle that brings a body part closer to the sagittal plane of the body .
a muscle that moves a body part away  from the sagittal plane of the body .
a muscle that moves body parts into an inferior direction or lowered position .
a muscle that decrease the angle of a joint .
immature reproductive tissue that has not undergone final maturation into either testis or ovary .
a thin layer of smooth muscle immediately beneath the base of the villi which permits the intestinal mucosa to dynamically move and fold .
a non - striated muscle that is composed of spindle - shaped cells .
fin muscle that is located on the anterior edge of the fin .
muscle ,  composed of long cylindrical ,  multinucleated cells that attaches to the skeleton via tendons .
smooth muscle of the enteric muscle system in which the cells are aligned parallel to the lumen of the gut .
smooth muscle of the enteric muscle system in which the cells are aligned perpendicular to the lumen of the gut .
muscle composed of cardiac muscle cells that is part of the heart .
the part of the nephron that filters blood .
functional unit of the kidney that filters waste .
space between the renal glomerulus and the glomerular capsule .
capillary that is part of the renal glomerulus .
membrane between the mesonephric podocytes and the renal glomerular capillaries .
middle layer of the glomerular basement membrane .
layer of the glomerular basement membrane adjacent to the glomerular capillary .
layer of the glomerular basement membrane adjacent to the podocytes and capsular space .
tubes in the kidney that collect and transport urine .
renal tubule that connects to the renal corpuscle .
portion of the renal tubule which is just posterior to the proximal convoluted tubule .
portion of the renal tubule which is just posterior to the distal early tubule .
portion of the renal tubule which is just posterior to the proximal straight tubule .
renal duct that collects the output from renal tubules .
blood vessel that runs along the rostral - caudal axis of the fish .
lymph vessel that runs along the rostral - caudal axis of the fish .
blood vessel part of cranial vasculature .
lymph vessel that is located in the head .
blood vessel part of fin .
lymph vessel part of fin .
blood vessel part of pectoral fin .
lymph vessel part of pectoral fin .
lymph vessel that is located in the caudal fin .
blood vessel located within the caudal fin .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the kidney .
blood vessel part of kidney .
arteriole that carries blood into the glomerular capillaries .
arteriole that carries blood out of the glomerular capillaries .
capillary that is part of the pronephric glomerulus .
portion of tissue that encapsulates the glomerulus of the pronephros .
simple squamous epithelium that lines the capsule of the pronephric glomerulus .
space between the pronephric glomerulus and the pronephric glomerular capsule .
membrane between the pronephric podocytes and the pronephric glomerular capillaries .
fin fold of the pectoral fin bud ,  resulting from mesenchyme migration into the apical fold .
the functional webs of the paired fins .
lymph vessel that is located between the somites .
smooth muscle that is part of the blood vessel wall .
a cuboidal epithelial cell of the kidney which regulates sodium and potassium balance .
specialized epithelial cells involved in the maintenance of osmotic homeostasis .
ionocyte located in the gills .
ionocyte located in the integument during embryonic and larval stages .
integument ionocyte rich in na , k - atpase .
integument ionocyte rich in vacuolar - type h +  atpase and carbonic anhydrase .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into an iridophore .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a leucophore .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into an erythrophore .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a cyanophore .
a multi - tissue mediosagittal cylinder - shaped structure ,  clearly isolated from the jaw and adhered by differentiated plicae to the lateral walls .
embryonic structure that forms from the anterior gut epithelium at the level of the second somite that then matures to form the swim bladder .
portion of the gut endoderm that will eventually develop into the swim bladder .
portion of tissue that forms from the swim bladder epithelium at the anterior end of the swim bladder .
posterior protrusion of the third ventricle .
is a diencephalic nucleus located in the caudal periventricular hypothalamus surrounding the lateral recess of the third ventricle .
a diencephalic nucleus that is part of caudal periventricular hypothalmus surrounding the posterior recess of the third ventricle .
cns white matter tract ,  major catecholaminergic tract that originates in the diencephalon ,  passes the locus coeruleus and projects through the hindbrain into the spinal cord .
cns white matter ,  an axonal tract between ventral diencephalon and ventral telencephalon .
cns white matter ,  axonal tract interconnecting catecholaminergic cell groups in the posterior tuberculum and hypothalamus .
cns white matter ,  axonal tract between the preoptic region and ventral diencephalon .
portion of the pancreatic duct ,  external to the pancreas body that connects the pancreas with the hepatopancreatic ampulla .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 4 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 5 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 6 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 7 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 8 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 11 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 9 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 10 .
first lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
second lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
third lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
fourth lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
fifth lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
sixth lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
seventh lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
first proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
second proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is the rostralmost pterygiophore of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 1 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to pterygiophore 2 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 3 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 4 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 5 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 6 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 7 of the dorsal fin .
first distal radial of the dorsal fin .
second distal radial of the dorsal fin .
third distal radial of the dorsal fin .
fourth distal radial of the dorsal fin .
fifth distal radial of the dorsal fin .
sixth distal radial of the dorsal fin .
seventh distal radial of the dorsal fin .
eighth distal radial of the dorsal fin .
third proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
fourth proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
fifth proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
sixth proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
seventh proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
eighth proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
foramen in the occipital region of neurocranium to allow passage of spinal cord .
anatomical space that is a concavity ,  shallow depression ,  or groove on a bone .
anatomical space that is the external opening of a gill slit connecting the pharyngeal cavity to the exterior .
gill ray is a slender ,  usually rod - like cartilage within a gill filament and ligamentously tied to its associated pharyngeal arch bone or cartilage .
lateral line system on head and pectoral girdle .
sensory canal associated with the infraorbital bones .
sensory canal between and in close proximity posteriorly with the post - otic and preoperculo - mandibular sensory canals ,  and anteriorly with the supraorbital and infraorbital sensory canals .
sensory canal  that forms dorsal to the horizontal semicircular canal of the ear .
sensory canal lateral or ventral to and in close proximity to the otic and post - otic sensory canals at their union .
sensory canal contained in the nasal and frontal bones .
nerve that is a branch of cranial nerve vii that passes through or around the suspensorium to innervate muscles and sensory organs on or near pharyngeal arch 2 .
actinotrichium that is part of the anal fin skeleton .
first lepidotrichium of anal fin .
second lepidotrichium of anal fin .
third epidotrichium of anal fin .
fourth lepidotrichium of anal fin .
fifth lepidotrichium of anal fin .
sixth lepidotrichium of anal fin .
seventh lepidotrichium of anal fin .
fossa or chamber on anterior portion of orbital region of neurocranium that serves as attachment site for anterior extrinsic eye musculature .
barbel that is associated with the anterior nostril .
barbel that is attached to the distal end of the maxilla and that originates on the side of the mouth .
the dorsal part of the ear .
the ventral portion of the ear .
duct that forms when the nonampullary ends of the posterior and anterior semicircular canals merge .
duct that crosses the midline connecting the sacculi .
portion of organism substance that is an extracellular fluid that has a low potassium concentration .
the portion of organism substance that is an extracellular fluid that has a high potassium and sodium concentration .
foramen in the inner ear .
inner ear foramen that connects the lagena to the caudal half of the saccule .
inner ear foramen that connects the rostral saccula to the utricle .
opening in the neurocranium to allow communication between the swim bladder and the inner ear .
foramen through which cranial nerve viii  ( auditory )  exits .
joint that articulates the autopalatine and lateral ethmoid and bones .
joint that articulates the autopalatine cartilage or bone and maxilla .
joint that articulates autopalatine and vomer bones .
joint that articulates the basioccipital and exoccipital .
actinotrichium that is part of the caudal fin skeleton .
foramen that is located in the coracoid .
foramen located on the dentary for passage of the mandibular nerve .
foramen in the orbital region of the neurocranium for the passage of the optic nerve  ( cranial nerve ii )  .
foramen for the passage of the olfactory nerve or cranial nerve 1 .
foramen in the bone or cartilage comprising the anterior wall of the orbit ,  and through which passes at least the deep ophthalmic branch of cranial nerve v  ( trigeminal )  .
foramen that is located in the scapula .
foramen through which the superficial ophthalmic nerve passes .
barbel that originates on the chin .
acellular anatomical structure that is a natural outgrowth ,  prominence ,  or point that is part of the surface of a tooth .
skeletal element which is a slender ,  horny ,  flexible ,  unsegmented fibril which provide structural support to fin folds or fins .
nerve that is part of the pectoral fin .
motor nerve that is located in the pectoral fin .
sensory nerve that innervates the pectoral fin .
pectoral fin motor nerve that enters the fin from the dorsal side of the fin rostral of all other motor nerves and innervates the dorsal side of the pectoral fin .
pectoral fin motor nerve that enters the fin from the dorsal side of the fin caudal of nerve 1 and rostral of all other motor nerves and innervates the dorsal side of the pectoral fin .
pectoral fin motor nerve that enters the fin from the dorsal side of the fin caudal of nerve 1 and 2 and rostral of nerve 4 and innervates the dorsal side of the pectoral fin .
fossa of opercle that articulates with hyomandibular condyle for opercle .
multi - tissue structure that is a fluid - filled canal in the integument and usually dermal bones ,  and contains one or more neuromasts .
sensory canal on trunk which is posterior to the pectoral girdle and often reaching to the caudal fin .
sensory canal that crosses over the dorsal midline and in close proximity to the contralateral post - otic sensory canals .
foramen in a bone that is part of a sensory canal .
sensory canal that is a side branch between a sensory canal proximally and a pore at its distal end .
sensory canal associated with the preopercle bone .
an anatomical space that is an opening ,  usually at the end of a canal or duct ,  on the surface of the integument or the lining of an internal anatomical space .
pectoral fin motor nerve that enters the fin from the ventral side of the fin and innervates the ventral side of the pectoral fin .
sensory canal associated with the angular and dentary bones .
tract which originates from several clusters of cell bodies in the rostral midbrain ,  the anterior tegmentum and the nucleus of the posterior commissure .
opening in the prootic .the basicapsular fenestra is paired .
fossa where the anteromedial rim is formed by the prootic ,  the remainder of the fossa is formed by the exoccipital and pterotic .
foramen formed between the anterolateral extension of the prootic that contacts the pterosphenoid the prootic and the pterosphenoid .
perilymphatic compartment of the zebrafish ear .
joint that articulates the dorsal hypohyal and urohyal bones .
joint that articulates the dorsal hypohyal and ventral hypohyal bones .
space that contains perilymph .
bilaterally paired perilymphatic chambers posterior to the sinus impar .
duct that contains perilymph .
pair of perilymphatic ducts that extend from the dorsal ends of the atria of the sinus impar ,  pass on either side of the medulla and merge and extend dorsally toward the surface of the head .
ectoderm of the oral region .
joint that articulates the dentary and anguloarticular .
joint that articulates the ceratohyal and branchiostegal ray bones .
joint that articulates the ceratohyal and ventral hypohyal bones .
joint that articulates the ceratohyal and dorsal hypohyal bones .
joint that articulates the frontal and pterotic .
joint that articulates the hyomandibula bone and metapterygoid bone .
joint between the right and left coracoid bones of the pectoral girdle .
joint that articulates the left and right basipterygium cartilage or bone .
joint between the left and right frontal bone .
joint that articulates the interhyal and epihyal bones ,  or interhyal and ceratohyal cartilages .
joint that articulates the left and right hypobranchial 3 cartilages or bones .
joint that articulates the left and right premaxillary bones .
joint that articulates the contralateral ventral hypohyal bones or the contralateral ceratobranchial cartilages .
joint that articulates the lateral ethmoid and frontal .
joint that articulates the opercle and interopercle .
joint that articulates the orbitosphenoid cartilage or bone and lateral ethmoid cartilage or bone .
joint that articulates orbitosphenoid and prootic bones .
joint that articulates the prootic and exoccipital .
joint that articulates the prootic and pterosphenoid .
joint that articulates the pterosphenoid and orbitosphenoid .
joint that articulates quadrate and anguloarticular bones .
joint that articulates quadrate and hyomandibula bones .
joint that articulates quadrate and metapterygoid bones .
joint that articulates the ventral hypohyal and urohyal bones .
joint that articulates the left and right dentary bones .
is a portion of tissue part of the heart primordium which will give rise to the endocardium .
portion of tissue that will develop into the myocardium .
groove that is in the ventral optic cup remnant of the optic fissure .
fossa where the hyomandibula articulates with the sphenotic and prootic to form the hyomandibular - otic region joint .
surface structure that is a portion of skin that projects or hangs from the body .
surface structure that is the region of the head in front of and between the orbits ,  and above the lower jaw .
joint that articulates the epihyal and ceratohyal bones .
joint that articulates the epihyal and branchiostegal ray bones .
fine ridges on surface of scale ,  often parallel to the circumference of scale .
is a bony partially gas filled sphere located ventral and anterior to the inner ear .
interopercular - mandibular ligament is a ligament that connects the interopercle to the retroarticular element of the lower jaw .
lateral ethmoid - autopalatine ligament is a ligament that connects the lateral ethmoid to the autopalatine .
lateral ethmoid - ectopterygoid ligament is a ligament that connects the lateral ethmoid to the ectopterygoid .
joint between the centra ,  and sometimes the neural arches or parapophyses of vertebra 4 and vertebra 5 .
joint between the centra ,  and sometimes the neural arches or parapophyses .
joint between the centra ,  and sometimes the neural arches or parapophyses of vertebra 6 and vertebra 7 .
multi - tissue structure composed of connective tissue that surrounds ,  the internal portions of the olfactory epithelium .
mental barbel that originates on the chin ,  in an anteromedial position relative to the outer mental barbel .
anatomical cluster that is the upper roof of the mouth that is roofed by bones such as the parasphenoid ,  prevomer ,  metapterygoid ,  orbitosphenoid .
shallow area that exists on the prootic .
dermal bone that is ring - shaped or cylindrical and surrounds a sensory canal .
caudal principal ray that is the dorsalmost caudal principal ray of the caudal fin .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 2 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 1 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 3 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 4 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 5 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 6 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 7 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 8 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 9 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 10 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 11 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 13 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 14 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 15 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 16 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 17 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 18 .
scale that is associated with the lateral line sensory canal .
the bony shelf above orbit is an anatomical cluster formed by the dorsolateral portions of the lateral ethmoid ,  frontal and sphenotic bones that forms the dorsal margin of the orbit .
dermal bone that is located on or subjacent to the surface anywhere on the body and that is not part of the general complement of scales ,  dermal bone of the dermatocranium ,  postcranial axial skeleton or paired fin skeleton .
caudal fin lepidotrichium that is distally branched .
dorsal fin ray that is distally branched .
anal fin lepidotrichium that is distally branched .
anatomical space between bones of the neurocranium .
fontanel within the frontal bone near the frontal - sphenotic joint .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the first centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the second centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the third centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the fourth centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the fifth centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the sixth centrum .
joint that articulates the hyomandibular cartilage or bone and otic region cartilage or sphenotic bone ,  and often pterotic bone and prootic bone .
actinotrichium that is part of the pectoral fin .
actinotrichium that is part of the pelvic fin .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium 1 is the leading or marginal ray of the fin and articulates with the scapula .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the second most anterior pectoral ray ,  usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the third most anterior pectoral ray ,  usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the sixth most anterior pectoral ray ,  usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the seventh most anterior pectoral ray ,  usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the fifth most anterior pectoral ray  ,  usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the fourth most anterior pectoral ray ,  usually branched and segmented .
first lepidotrichium of pelvic fin .
second lepidotrichium of pelvic fin .
fourth lepidotrichium of pelvic fin .
third lepidotrichium of pelvic fin .
anatomical space that is the concavity containing the eye .
portion of vessel wall that extends to form a new vessel .
joint that articulates the parasphenoid and basioccipital .
portion of organism substance that is a gelatinous extracellular matrix structure that fills the vitreous cavity of the eye .
acellular anatomical structure that is the innermost layer of the optic choroid .
clear ocular fluid in the anterior segment of the eye .
a specialized hair cell that has an elongated kinocilium upon which an otolith accretes .
anatomical cluster comprising the rostral portion of the eye ;   the cornea ,  lens ,  iris ,  ciliary zone ,  anterior chamber ,  and annular ligament .
anatomical cluster comprising the caudal portion of the eye: the retina ,  posterior chamber ,  optic choroid ,  and vitreous .
blood vessels within the stroma of the iris .
portion of the iris which contains  bundles of fibers ,  most of which are oriented radially around the pupil .
duct present in the angle where the cornea meets the ciliary zone that absorbs the aqueous humor .
head mesenchyme surrounding the immature eye that  gives rise to specialized structures of the anterior segment of the eye .
modified or toughened vitreous that suspend the lens at the equator to the non - pigmented epithelium of the ciliary zone .
the lens capsule is a modified basement membrane that completely surrounds the ocular lens .
portion of tissue that are compact accumulations of neurons having roughly similar connections and functions .
brain nuclei located in the ventral thalamus .
the multi - tissue structure that is the beginning of the spinal nerve leaving the spinal cord .
integument ionocyte rich in na - cl co - transporter  ( ncc )  activity .
rostral portion of pars anterior of the adenohypophysis where corticotropes and lactotropes localize .
caudal portion of pars anterior of the adenohypophysis where somatotropes ,  thyrotropes and gonadotropes are localized .
cluster of cells along the edge of  the neural plate that have the potential to become neuroblast .
cluster of cells along the center of  the neural plate that have the potential to become neuroblast .
anatomical cluster which give rise to mature mesonephric nephrons .
renal duct that will develop into the mesonephric proximal tubule .
hollow cluster of epithelial cells derived from the nephron progenitor .
cluster of cells comprising a portion of tissue which gives rise to new mesonephric nephrons .
developing nephron with a comma shaped appearance .
developing nephron with a tubular morphology that has a renal corpuscle anlage at the distal end .
developing nephron where the developing glomerular capsule has been invaded by a glomerular capillary loop called the glomerular tuft .
renal duct that will develop into the mesonephric distal tubule .
a branched nephron of the mature kidney .
an anatomical structure that is regional part of the central nervous system where there is a significant bend of the axis .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 12 .
fin that is one of a pair located ventrally on the organism .
fin that is an unpaired fin located in the sagittal plane of the organism .
ghrelin secreting cells found in the found in the exocrine pancreas .
a cell that secretes ghrelin ,  the peptide hormone that stimulates hunger .
region at venious pole of heart tube that initiates heart beat .
ring of cardiac conduction tissue around the sinoatrial region of the heart tube that performs pacemaker function .
supraneural located posterior to supraneural 9 .
portion of vessel wall that extends to form a new lymph vessel .
portion of vessel wall that extends to form a new blood vessel .
the primordial vasculature that will develop into lymph vessels .
anatomical cluster of skeletal elements that forms the roof over the brain .
fibrous joint connecting the parietal bones .
fibrous joint connecting the frontal bone to the parietal bone .
fibrous joint connecting the supraoccipital to the parietal bone .
joint in which the articulating bones are connected by bone .
synostosis where the entopterygoid meets the quadrate .
synostosis where the ectopterygoid meets the entopterygoid .
synchondrosis where the basioccipital meets the prootic anteriorly .
synostosis where the entopterygoid meets the metapterygoid .
opening formed between the ventral border of the metapterygoid and the dorsal border of the symplectic .
synchondrosis where the quadrate meets the entopterygoid dorsally .
synostosis where anteromedial extensions of the lateral ethmoid project to meet the supraethmoid dorsally .
cartilaginous joint that articulates the anguloarticular posteroventrally with the retroarticular .
connective tissue that functions in mechanical and structural support .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
skeletal tissue that is part of the exoskeleton and derived from an odontogenic papilla .
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
space enclosed by the trabeculae cranii .
synovial joint that articulates the hyomandibula and the opercle .
synovial joint that articulates the hyomandibula with the pterotic .
fossa where the exoccipital forms the medial portion and the epioccipital forms the lateral margin .
foramen in the hyomandibula that allows passage of the anterior lateral line nerve and the facial nerve  ( cranial nerve vii )  .
fossa on the pterotic  where the hyomandibula articulates .
fibrous joint that articulates the posterior edge of the  preopercle horizontal limb with the symplectic .
fibrous joint that articulates the anterior edge of the preopercle vertical limb and the  hyomandibula .
skeletal element which is part of lepidotrichium articulating with other lepidotrichium segments by lepidotrichium joints .
joint that articulates segments of the fin ray .
odontoid tissue formed of a loose matrix of collagen .
ligament that connects the intercalarium to the  anterior process of the tripus and the scaphium .
ligament that connects one rib to another .
ligaments that runs from the parapophyses of the anteriormost centrum to the exoccipital .
ligament that runs from the ventral third of the supracleithrum to the exoccipital .
ligament that run from the dorsal tip of the cleithrum to the exoccipital .
ligament that connects the dentary to the maxilla .
ligament that connects the  rostral process of the maxilla  to the kinethmoid .
ligament that ,  in the adult ,  attaches the premaxilla to its counterpart at the midline and the kinethmoid posterodorsally .
the ligament that connects the anteroventral tips of ceratobranchials 5 medially .
short ligament that runs from the hooked anterior end of the supracleithrum to the intercalar .
ligament that connects the  preopercle to the retroarticular anteroventrally .
dense regular connective tissue that connects muscle to bone .
joint that articulates the mesethmoid and lateral ethmoid .
joint that articulates the mesethmoid and vomer .
adductor that originates at the cleithrum the muscle fibers run in sheets along the endoskeletal disk extending dorsally and caudally from its base .
abductor that originates at the cleithrum the muscle fibers run in sheets along the endoskeletal disk extending dorsally and caudally from its base .
layers of broad flat tendons .
portion of tissue in the vagal lobe that contains gabaergic sensory interneurons .
endochondral process of the autopalatine that forms the socket of the autopalatine - preethmoid joint .
synovial ,  ball and socket joint that articulates the autopalatine and the preethmoid .
endochondral bone part of autopalatine that extends towards the first infraorbital .
portion of organism substance found in the lymphatic system .
thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the intestinal  epithelium .
multi - tissue structure of the intestine comprising of the intestinal epithelium and the intestinal lamina propria mucosa .
multi - tissue structure part of the olfactory bulb  that  is roughly spheroidal and encircled by olfactory sensory neuron axons that formed an anatomically distinct stalk  connected to the olfactory nerve .
bilaterally - paired nerve connecting each segment of the spinal cord to the limbs and organs .
dorsal branch of the spinal nerve ,  coursing dorsally and caudally between the muscle and the vertebrae .
ventral branch of the spinal nerve that projects toward the lateral surface of the myotome ,  initially extending parallel to the horizontal myoseptum .
ventral spinal nerve branch that projects to the ventral myotome .
ventral spinal nerve sub - branch that runs near the rostral end of the myotome near the vertical myoseptum .
ventral spinal nerve sub - branch that projects ventrally in the rostro - caudal center of the myotome .
multi - tissue structure part of the olfactory bulb comprised of ciliated and microvillous olfactory sensory neurons projections that form specialized neuropilar regions comprised of olfactory sensor axons and the dendrites of olfactory bulb neurons .
protoglomeruli in the lateral  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the medial  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
single large glomerulus located in the ventral posterior region of the maturing glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
central region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
dorsal region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
lateral region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
medial region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
ventral region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
lateral region of the dorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
medial portion of the ventral region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
anterior portion of the ventral region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
posterior portion of the ventral region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
dorsal part of the medial region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
anterior portion of the medial region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located between ventromedial and medial olfactory bulb surfaces .
glomerulus located in the dorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsolateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsolateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsolateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsolateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsolateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
group of glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb the vmgx group ,  is  located 10 - 50 micrometers from the ventral surface of the olfactory bulb .
group of glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
one of two large glomeruli located in the medial side of the ventroposterior zone olfactory bulb .
one of two large glomeruli located in the lateral side of the ventroposterior zone olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsoanterior region of the  lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
group of glomerulus located in the lateral region of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the anteromedial  zone of the olfactory bulb .
group of small glomeruli located in the anteromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the lateral  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the lateral  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the lateral  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the lateral  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the medial  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the medial  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the medial  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the medial  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
motor neuron that innervate muscles that control eye ,  jaw ,  and facial movements of the vertebrate head and parasympathetic neurons that innervate certain glands and organs .
cranial motor neuron which innervates muscles derived from the branchial  ( pharyngeal )  arches .
cranial motor neurons are found in the hindbrain ,  and innervate parasympathetic neurons that innervate tear glands ,  sweat glands ,  and the smooth muscles and glands of the pulmonary ,  cardiovascular ,  and gastrointestinal systems .
cranial motor neurons found in the midbrain and hindbrain that innervates muscles that control eye and tongue .
a system of osteocytes connected through canals within the vertebra .
anatomical space ,  part of the lacunocanalicular system that connects lacuna within bone tissue allowing osteocyte projections to connect .
anatomical space a small cavity ,  in the matrix of bone tissue .
multicellular structure composed of endodermal cells that forms a continuous rod along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo in contact with the ysl .
portion of the intestinal rod that loops to left between 26 - 30hpf and gives rise to the intestinal bulb and liver and anterior pancreatic primordium .
a secretory cell found in pancreatic acini that secretes digestive enzymes and mucins .
a cuboidal epithelial cell that is continuous with the lining of intercalated ducts that drain the acinus .
portion of exocrine pancreas that is comprised of polarized cells containing apical zymogen granules that store digestive enzymes such as trypsin and chymotrypsin and abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria .
polypeptide producing cell located in the islets of the pancreas .
a d cell located in the pancreas .
cells that  form an epithelial - like sheath around the vacuolated inner notochord cells .
a cell whose primary function is to provide structural support ,  to provide strength and physical integrity to the organism .
structural cell of notochord that contain one large fluid - filled intracellular vacuole that occupies most of the cell volume .
lymph vessels that are located on either side of the pcv in the posterior region of the intestine .
digestive duct within the pancreas .
the portion of the intrapancreatic duct leading from the pancreatic acinar gland to the intralobular duct .
intrapancreatic duct within a pancreatic lobe that connects all the  intercalated duct with an interlobular duct .
intrapancreatic duct that connects the intralobular duct to the main pancreatic duct .
intrapancreatic duct that connects to the interlobular ducts and drains into the extrapancreatic duct .
cluster of acinar glands surrounding an intralobular duct .
the primary islet is the first islet to develop .
portion of tissue composed of a group of cells in the pancreas producing insulin ,  glucagon and somatostatin .
islet that develops after the primary islet .
portion of tissue composed of the signal - generating cells within the zona limitans intrathalamica .
adipose tissue interspersed within the pancreatic acini .
adipose tissue in the cranium .
adipose tissue surrounding the eye .
adipose tissue between muscle and integument .
adipose tissue surrounding the esophagus .
adipose tissue deposited along the mandible .
adipose tissue that forms at the base of the pectoral fin .
subcutaneous adipose tissue deposit at the base of the caudal fin .
sensory neuron that extends a single axon shaft along the lateral white matter of the hindbrain and spinal cord .
a male germ cell that develops from the haploid secondary spermatocytes .
specialized olfactory support cell that surrounds crypt olfactory sensory neurons .
portion of tissue that develops from the cranial neural crest and which cells populate a series of pharyngeal arches from which develops the support skeleton of the jaw and gills .
diploid cell produced by the fusion of sperm cell nucleus and egg cell .
an endothelial progenitor cell that participates in angiogenesis during development .
the external layer of the atrium bounding the atrial myocardium .
neuron that is part of the enteric nervous system .
parasympathetic neurons are part of the parasympathetic nervous system and the cell bodies lie in the brain and sacral region of the spinal cord .
sympathetic neurons are part of the sympathetic nervous system and are primarily adrenergic producing the neurotransmitter noradrenalin along with other neuropeptides .
a neuron that releases hypocretin as a neurotransmitter .
epithelium within the thymus where lymphocytes mature .
epithelium of the thymus primordium composed of cells of immature morphology .
part of the gut where the pronephric tubules come together with the caudal end of the intestine attaching at 4dpf .
the juncture where the  intestine empties into the cloaca .
epithelium lining the cloaca .the epithelium is a simple cuboidal epithelium at prim - 5 .
muscle cell which has as its direct parts myofilaments organized into sarcomeres .
striated muscle of the esophogus .
wedge - shaped epidermal cell positioned along the apex of the developing fin fold .
artery that runs along the midline from anterior to posterior regions of the hypothalamus and splits into two capillary branches  ( hyc )  .
vein thats tarts posterior of the hypophysis and drains the hypophyseal capillaries .
axon tract originating  from the two hemispheres of the neurosecretory preoptic areas  converging into the midline and terminating at the ventral part of the hypothalamus at the presumed location of the pituitary .
pair of capillaries that bilaterally encompass the hypophysis starting at the anterior aspect of the hypophysis  ( pituitary )  .
surface structure that is a keratinized epidermal appendages that is a contact organ and secondary sex organ .
surface structure that is a protrusion from the rostral end of the jaw ,  supported by the mandibular projection .
layer of smooth cells composing the outer layer of the breeding tubercle .
cell layer that lies underneath the superficial layer of the breeding tubercle .
intermediate layer of the breeding tubercles characterized by cells with  loose spinous organization connected to each other via desmosomes ,  but with wide extracellular spaces in between .
layer of breeding tubercle proximal to basal lamina of the integument .
breeding tubercles along the surface of the pectoral fin lepidotrichium of males .
surface structures composed of breeding tubercles arranged in a double row in the medial region on each side of the lower jaw .
breeding tubercles that cover the surface of the jaw flap .
portion of organism substance that is located between the cap and second tier layers of the breeding tubercles .
the interrenal vessel  ( irv )  is the blood vessels supplying the interrenal gland .
sprout from the dorsal aorta that develops into the interrenal vessel .
gelatinous substance surrounding the kinocila of the neuromast .
efferent neuron where the cell body is located in the hindbrain reticular formation immediately adjacent to the medial longitudinal fascicle at the rostrocaudal level between the midl and the cad and adjacent to the descending mauthner axon .
efferent neuron located in the hindbrain .
efferent neurons located ventrally in the diencephalon .
anatomical space within the intestine where digestion normally occurs .
transient cluster of cardiac progenitor cells that develops adjacent to the heart and migrates onto the heart to form the epicardium .
network of heavily branched muscle in the atrium .
trabecular layer of the atrial myocardium .
artery that carries blood from the efferent branchial artery to the cardiac ventricle .
vein that carries blood from the coronary capillaries to the atrial chamber entering the atrium close to the atrioventricular region .
target definition: hindbrain interneurons that are part of the reticular formation .
anterior longitudinal muscles of the dorsal fin .
anterior longitudinal muscles of the dorsal fin .
the layer of caudal fin musculature immediately under the integument that originate from the vertebral column and insert at the base of caudal fin rays .
the layer of caudal fin musculature immediately under the superficial caudal fin musculature that originate from the vertebral column and insert at the base of caudal fin rays .
paired ,  deep caudal fin muscles that arise broadly from the hypurals and extends dorsocaudally where the fiber bundles converge into a narrow insertion site on the 5th caudal fin ray .
paired superficial caudal fin muscle that has a narrow attachment site along the  midline posterior to the attachment of the lateralis superficialis ventralis  and fans out to attach broadly in a region between the 12th and 16th caudal fin ray .
paired superficial caudal fin muscle that has a narrow attachment site along the midline posterior to the attachment of the lateralis superficialis dorsalis  and fans out to attach broadly in a region between the 4th and 8th caudal fin ray .
paired superficial caudal fin muscle that originates from a broad base at the midline and narrows toward its attachment at the dorsal tip of the caudal fin .
paired superficial caudal fin muscle that is located ventrally and extends from the myoseptum to the ventral tip of the caudal fin where it attaches in the region of the second lowest  ( eighteenth )  long fin ray .
paired superfical caudal fin muscle that is located dorsally and extends from the myoseptum to the dorsal tip of the caudal fin where it attaches in the region of the second upper long fin ray .
cardiac muscle  located in the trabecular layer of the ventricle that is attached to the base of the av and bv valves .
cardiac muscle  located in the trabecular layer of the ventricle that spans the central lumen near the ventricular apex .
an olfactory receptor cells with apical microvilli .
vessel that drains aqueous humor from the eye .
a cell of a  hematopoietic lineage .
interconnected lymph vasculature in the anterior portion of the head .
superficial lymph vessel that is part of pharyngeal arch 3 .
superficial lymph vessel that is part of pharyngeal arch 4 .
superficial lymph vessel that is part of pharyngeal arch 5 .
superficial lymph vessel that is part of pharyngeal arch 6 .
lymphangiogenic sprout that  originates from the common cardinal vein and extends along the primary head sinus .
superfical lymph vessel part of the facial lymphatic network  that develops from the facial lymphatic sprout .
facial lymphatic vessel that sprouts from the lateral facial lymph vessel .
facial lymph vessel that sprouts from the lateral facial lymph vessel .
lymph vasculature surrounding the intestines .
lymph vessel that follows the supraintestinal artery .
pair of lymph vessel that follows the right subintestinal vein .
lymph vessels that are on the right side of the intestine .
any of the tubular multi - tissue structures through which lymph moves in the body .
lymph vessel that extends along the left subintestinal vein .
lymph vessels that are on the left side of the intestine .
lymph vessel on the left of the intestine that runs parallel to the upper right intestinal lymph vessel .
lymph vessel that connects lymph vessels within the intestinal lymphatic network .
is a multi - tissue structure composed of dentine ,  enameloid and tooth pulp that develops from the dental organ .
a cluster of neurons first visible in the embryonic diencephalon located in the dorsolateral brain just posterior to the posterior commissure ,   that project growth cones ventrally along the posterior commissure to the anterior tegmentum where the pc intersects two longitudinal tracts ,  the tract of the postoptic commissure  ( tpoc )  and the medial longitudinal fasciculus  ( mlf )  .
is a multi - tissue structure composed of dentine ,  enameloid and tooth pulp that develops from the dental organ .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 3v and anterior to tooth 5v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 2v and anterior to tooth 4v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 1v and anterior to tooth 3v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the anteriormost tooth in the ventral tooth row .
zebrafish bile contains the bile alcohol cyprinol sulfate .
capillaries that branch from the hyaloid artery and drain into the hyaloid vein .
joint that articulates the interhyal skeletal element and ceratohyal skeletal element .
joint that articulates the interhyal element and the hyosymplectic element .
joint that articulates the opercle and they hyosymplectic .
lymph vessels within the ovary .
pectoral fin muscle .links pectoral fin and branchial movement and stabilizes the pectoral girdle .
portion of optic tract that innervates the optic tectum .
neuron with the large soma in the brain with an axon projecting caudally to the spinal cord .
cns interneuron with a soma located in a cluster  in the lateral wall of the medulla ,  with dendrites confined to the neuropil ,   that has connections to the vestibular and lateral line neurons .
mesoderm part of the head .
rostral cell mass bordering the pretectum .
multi - tissue structure that is made up of the external granular layer and the ventral proliferative layer .
proliferative zone on the ventral side of the cerebellar plate .
portion of tissue in the midbrain that will develop into the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus synencephalon .
proliferative region that forms on peripheral side of the cerebellar plate .
a neuron that releases norephinephrine   ( noradrenaline )  as a neurotransmitter .
spiral neurons are excitatory interneurons located in rhombomere 3 and have contralateral projections that cross the midline forming commissures in rhombomere 3 .
tract that extends from the intersection of the tract of the postoptic commissure and supraoptic tract that projects caudally across the hypothalamus and into the commissure of the caudal tuberculum .
the space between the cornea and lens in the anterior segment of the eye where the aqueous humor is located .
commissure that is formed by a subset of tcpt axons that cross the midline in the diencephalon .
an undifferentiated germ cell that proliferates rapidly and gives rise to oocytes .
tubules formed by the seminiferous epithelium that contains spermatogenic cyst surrounded by somatic support cells ,  called sertoli cells .
epithelium that lines the seminiferous tubules .
the membranous sheath that surrounding the seminiferous tubule .
structure in the testis formed by cytoplasmic projections of one or two sertoli cells that surround a single spermatogonium .
membranous sheath that surrounds the testis .
lumen of the seminiferous tubule .
ligament that connects the anterior apex of the opercle to the posterior end of the ceratohyal .
cartilage that attaches the parachordal cartilage to the auditory capsule anterior to the basicapsular fenestra .
cartilage that attaches the parachordal cartilage to the auditory capsule posterior of the  basicapsular fenestra .
cartilage that grows from the auditory capsule medially toward the anterior end of the parachordal cartilage to enclose the hyomandibular  ( facial )  foramen .
syndesmosis that connects the posterior lateral edge of the epiotic to the posttemporal .
canal where the carotid artery enters the cranium .
syndesmosis that connects the anterior edge epiotic to the parietal .
foramen that has the exoccipital as the anterior and dorsal rim .
foramen in the exoccipital through which the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cranial nerve ix )  passes .
foramen in the exoccipital through which the vagus nerve  ( cranial nerve x )  passes .
chamber  in the prootic where the trunks of the trigeminal facial nerve complex pass from the brain to the outside of the cranium .
longitudinal unpaired muscle that attaches to the base of the  most posterior ray of the anal fin  ( usually ray 14 )  and runs posteriorly into he hypaxial musculature of the caudal fin .
longitudinal muscle that on the anterior end is  continuous with the retractor ischii and on the posterior end inserts into the base of the first anal ray .
tissue that lies between the caudal artery and the caudal vein plexus where definitive hematopoiesis occurs after  48hpf and before the hematopoietic progenitors migrate to the thymus and kidney .
the initial growth point of the scale .
grooves on the scale radiating from the focus .
transient groove in the dorsal eye lined by basal lamina .
a medial cartilaginous spur that develops from the dorsomedial edge of the palatoquadrate .
skeletal tissue that is an extension of a skeletal element composed of  cartilage .
a protrusion of cartilage at the posteroventral tip of  meckel's cartilage that gives rise to the retroarticular .
cartilaginous protrusion on the posterodorsal region of meckel's cartilage .
thread - like fibrous aggregation of secreted molecules extending from the subcommissural organ  ( sco )  through the ventricular system and central canal to the end of the spinal cord .
neuronal tissue that is the arborization field for the majority of the ganglion cell axons ,   it also holds other incoming axons ,  for example ,  from the pretectum and the contralateral tectum ,  as well as the dendrites and axons of tectal interneurons and projection neurons .
region the larval brain that is a forerunner of  the adult central and superficial pretectal regions .
region that gives rise to various caudal tubercular structures in the preglomerular region this region is non ventricular neural proliferation zone and doesn't express gaba .
portion of tissue that is presumed to give rise to the  entopenduncular nucleus .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lateral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon .
pouch at the end of the endolymphatic duct that helps regulates pressure on the inner ear .
organism substance that is the output of the nephron .
iridophore layer of iris composed of a outer layer of regularly tiled  iridophores and an inner layer of randomly arranged iridophores .
layer of melanophores that are positioned behind the argenta .
iridophore layer that forms along the dorsal region of the poster segment of the eye .
brain structure that lies perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the embryonic neural tube ,  is continuous with the rostral hypothalamic proliferation and whose most lateral extent is deflected dorsally within the inferior lobe .
portion of tissue that is a patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium in the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
early - forming telencephalic neural cluster .neurons of the dorso - rostral cluster  ( drc )  extend axons to form the supra - optic tract  ( sot )  and the anterior commissure  ( ac )  .
early - forming neural cluster located in the rostral diencephalon .
early - forming neural cluster of the ventral midbrain .
early - developing neuronal cluster of the epiphysis .
hemal prezygapophyses are paired ,  anteromedially directed processes arising from the bases of hemal arches ,  ligamentously joined to the hemal postzygapophyses of the preceding vertebra .
is a mandibular muscle that attaches to meckel's cartilage and functions during jaw closing .
a portion of tissue which is a fasciculated group of axons .
part of the forebrain that is ventral to the ventral thalamus and dorsal to the preoptic area .
part of cranial nerve x .
in the adult bilaterally paired compact tract located lateral to the medial forebrain bundle that extends to the diencephalon .
non neural ectoderm that surrounds the presumptive neural plate and gives rise to neurogenic placodes .
rostral portion of embryonic tissue that gives rise to the anterior neural plate .
caudal portion of embryonic tissue that gives rise to the posterior neural plate .
rostral portion of the neural plate .
posterior portion of the neural plate  that gives rise to the posterior neural keel .
anterior portion of anterior neural plate that gives rise to the forebrain neural keel .
portion of anterior neural plate that gives rise to the forebrain midbrain boundary neural keel .
posterior portion of the neural keel that gives rise to the posterior neural rod .
rostral portion of the neural keel .
portion of  neural keel that gives rise to the midbrain neural rod .
anterior portion of anterior neural keel that gives rise to the forebrain neural rod .
portion of anterior neural keel that gives rise to the forebrain midbrain boundary neural rod .
portion of the posterior neural keel that gives rise to the spinal cord neural rod .
portion of posterior neural keel that gives rise to the hindbrain neural rod .
posterior portion of the neural rod that gives rise to the posterior neural tube .
rostral portion of the neural rod .
portion of  neural rod  that gives rise to the midbrain neural tube .
portion of anterior neural rod that gives rise to the forebrain midbrain boundary neural tube .
anterior portion of anterior neural rod that gives rise to the forebrain neural tube .
portion of the posterior neural rod that gives rise to the spinal cord neural tube .
portion of posterior neural rod that gives rise to the hindbrain neural tube .
posterior portion of the neural tube that gives rise to the hindbrain and spinal cord .
rostral portion of the neural tube .
portion of anterior neural tube that gives rise to the forebrain midbrain boundary .
anterior portion of anterior neural rod that gives rise to the forebrain .
portion of the posterior neural tube that gives rise to the spinal cord .
portion of posterior neural tube that gives rise to the hindbrain .
portion of neural plate that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary neural keel .
portion of neural keel that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary neural rod .
portion of neural rod that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary neural tube .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
is a mandibular muscle that attaches meckel's cartilage to the basihyal cartilage and functions in jaw opening .
is a mandibular muscle that forms along the palatoquadrates and inserts on meckel's cartilages and functions in jaw closing .
dorsal subdivision of the putative mandibular muscle plate .
is a ventral paired hyoid muscle that has attachment sites on the basihyal and the posterior end of the ceratohyals and functions in jaw opening .
is a ventral , paired hyoid muscle that inserts at the most anterior basibranchial and also at the posterior ends of the ceratohyals and functions in jaw closure .
is a dorsal ,  paired hyoid muscle that attaches to the dorsomedial faces of the hyosymplectics .
pillar of the semicircular canal around whose perimeter runs the anterior semicircular canal .
pillar of the semicircular canal around whose perimeter runs the lateral semicircular canal .
pillar of the semicircular canal around whose perimeter runs the posterior semicircular canal .
blood vessel within the eye .
multi - tissue structure that is the dorsal - most aspect of the developing neural tube .
portion of tissue fated to develop into neurogenic placode .
neurogenic field fated to develop into a dorsolateral placode .
neurogenic field fated to develop into an epibranchial placode .
neurogenic field fated to develop into the olfactory placode .
cranial neural crest that is part of the hindbrain .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the hyoid arch .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglion .
is an epithelium of the auditory apparatus .
is an otic epithelium composed of cells with a squamous morphology .
is an otic epithelium that is a neuroepithelium which is pseudostratified and senses sound .
is a portion of tissue that is the most anterior portion of the notochord .
is a multitissue structure that accumulates blood .
an enlarged chamber in the blood sinus capable of accumulating a large volume of blood .
is a three - chambered blood sinus found at the base of the maxillary barbel .
is a multi - tissue structure forming the smallest chamber of the maxillary barbel blood sinus .
is a multi - tissue structure that is located outside the maxillary barbel proper and is positioned on the lateral surface of the maxilla ,  medially attached to the lateral surface of the maxillary bone and is laterally is attached to a hemispheric capsule of dense connective tissue of the distal bulb .
is a multi - tissue structure part of the maxillary barbel blood sinus which is connected to the central chamber of the maxillary blood sinus by a slight isthmus .
a blind end lymph vessel that emerges from the maxilla ,  wraps around the sinus isthmus ,  then runs alongside the distal bulb to enter the barbel shaft proper .
blood vessel that emerges from the maxilla ,  wraps around the sinus isthmus ,  then runs alongside the distal bulb to enter the barbel shaft proper .
is a vasculature that delivers fluid to the maxillary barbel .
is a vascular plexus at the base ,  or proximal end ,  of the developing maxillary barbel .
region of the neural plate that will give rise to the neural crest .
premigratory neural crest population that develops from the neural plate border .
cell that is part of the premigratory neural crest population .
migratory neural crest population that develops from premigratory neural crest .
cell that is part of the migratory neural crest population .
migratory cranial neural crest population that develops from premigratory cranial neural crest .
premigratory cranial neural crest population that develops from the neural plate border .
a cell of the embryo .
cell that is part of the premigratory cranial neural crest population .
cell that is part of the migratory cranial neural crest population .
premigratory trunk neural crest population that develops from the neural plate border .
migratory trunk neural crest population that develops from premigratory trunk neural crest .
cell that is part of the premigratory trunk neural crest population .
cell that is part of the migratory trunk neural crest population .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 12 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 13 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 14 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 15 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 16 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 17 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 18 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 19 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 20 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 21 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 22 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 23 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 24 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 25 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 26 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 27 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 28 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 29 .
an anatomical cluster composed of the heart and associated structures .
an anatomical cluster composed of the organs of the  pleuroperitoneal cavity and associated structures .
joint between meckel's cartilage and palatoquadrate cartilage .
the vertebral body end plate is part of the autocentrum .
ligament that connects adjacent vertebra .
spinal cord interneuron located along the central canal that extends a microvilliated apical process into the cerebrospinal fluid and extends ascending axonal projections ventrally and ipsilaterally .
a cerebrospinal fluid contacting neuron that originates form p3 progenitor domain .
a stem cell that gives rise to several epidermal cell types ,  including ionocytes and keratinocytes .
a cell that will become an ionocyte .
a cell that will become a keratinocyte .
a portion of tissue that is the deepest point of the fold of the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
an embryonic cell that is formed before the germ layers have been formed .
a cell of the cranial neural crest .
a cell of the trunk neural crest .
a male germ cell that develops from spermatogonia .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
an euploid male germ cell of an early stage of spermatogenesis .
a stem cell from which all cells of the lymphoid and myeloid lineages develop ,  including blood cells and cells of the immune system .
a progenitor cell committed to the erythroid lineage .
a cell that is within the developmental lineage of gametes and is able to pass along its genetic material to offspring .
a myeloid progenitor cell committed to the monocyte lineage .
a myeloblast committed to the neutrophil lineage .
a stem cell that can give rise to mulitple lineages of cells .
a progenitor cell committed to myeloid lineage ,  including the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a progenitor cell committed to the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
an oligopotent progenitor cell committed to the lymphoid lineage .
a stem cell from which all cells of the body can form .
an embryonic  ( precursor )  cell of the myogenic lineage that develops from the mesoderm .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
skeletogenic cell that is typically non - terminally differentiated ,  secretes an avascular ,  gag rich matrix ;  is not buried in cartilage tissue matrix ,  retains the ability to divide ,  located adjacent to cartilage tissue  ( including within the perichondrium )  .
a cylindrical epithelial cell in the innermost layer of the enamel organ .
skeletogenic cell that  secretes dentine matrix ,  is derived from the tooth pulp .
a cell of ectomesenchymal origin concerned with the formation of the layer of cementum on the roots of teeth .
a bone - forming cell which secretes an extracellular matrix .
a neurectoderm derived cell that lines the neural lumen .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a cell which moves among different tissues of the body ,  via blood ,  lymph ,  or other medium .
a cell found predominately in the blood .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
a specialized phagocytic cell associated with the absorption and removal of the mineralized matrix of bone tissue ,  which typically differentiates from monocytes .
a leukocyte with abundant granules in the cytoplasm .
a fully differentiated neutrophil ,  a granular leukocyte having a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
most generally any neuron which is not motor or sensory .
an efferent neuron that passes from the central nervous system or a ganglion toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes movement .
a type of interneuron that has two neurites ,  usually an axon and a dendrite ,  extending from opposite poles of an ovoid cell body .
a neuron that uses acetylcholine as a vesicular neurotransmitter .
a vertebrate phagocyte with a single nucleus .
pioneer neurons establish a pathway in the developing central nervous system and then undergo programmed cell death once the adult axons ,  which follow them ,  have made connections with the target site .
the output neuron of the cerebellar cortex .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system  -  the largest and most numerous neuroglial cells in the brain and spinal cord .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system .
a central nervous system macrophage found in the parenchyma of the central nervous system .
cell of the single layer of large flattened cells covering the surface of the cornea .
a cell that normally gives rise to other cells that are organized as three - dimensional masses ,  rather than sheets .
a fat - storing cell found mostly in the abdominal cavity and subcutaneous tissue of mammals .
a mature osteoblast that has become embedded in the bone matrix .
polymorphic cell that form cartilage .
skeletogenic cell that produces enamel ,  overlies the odontogenic papilla ,  and arises from the differentiation of a preameloblast cell .
an osteocytelike cell with numerous processes ,  trapped in a lacuna in the cement of the tooth .
a cell capable of processing and presenting lipid and protein antigens to t cells in order to initiate an immune response .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a cell of an exocrine gland ,  i .e .
a cell of the epithelial lining that produce and secrete mucins .
a cell of an endocrine gland ,  ductless glands that secrete substances which are released directly into the circulation and which influence metabolism and other body functions .
an endocrine cell that is located in the epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a neuron that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones ,  and that constitutes ,  in whole or in part ,  an endocrine organ or system .
a cell that stores epinephrine secretory vesicles .
a leydig cell is a testosterone - secreting cell in the interstitial area ,  between the seminiferous tubules ,  in the testis .
the main structural component of the liver .
an elongated ,  contractile cell found wrapped about precapillary arterioles outside the basement membrane .
a mature contractile cell ,  commonly known as a myocyte ,  that forms one of three kinds of muscle .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that has a fast contractile response .
a non - striated ,  elongated ,  spindle - shaped cell found lining the digestive tract ,  uterus ,  and blood vessels .
the peripheral receptor for pain .
a cell specialized to transduce mechanical stimuli and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
a mechanoreceptor cell located in the inner ear that is sensitive to auditory stimuli .
a cellular receptor which mediates the sense of temperature .
a cell specialized to detect chemical substances and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
a cell specialized to detect and transduce light .
a cell whose function is determined by the generation or the reception of an electric signal .
a cell that takes up and metabolizes substances .
a cell within an epithelial cell sheet whose main function is to act as an internal or external covering for a tissue or an organism .
a cell whose primary function is to prevent the transport of stuff across compartments .
a supporting cell projecting inward from the basement membrane of seminiferous tubules .
a neuroglial cell of the peripheral nervous system which forms the insulating myelin sheaths of peripheral axons .
a cell that moves by its own activities .
a cell of the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell of the middle germ layer of the embryo .
a cell of the inner of the three germ layers of the embryo .
any cell capable of ingesting particulate matter via phagocytosis .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of an immunoglobulin complex .
a modified epidermal cell located in the stratum basale .
a non - neuronal cells of the nervous system .
is a hindbrain interneuron .giant reticulospinal neurons possessing thick crossed axons and positioned dorsally in the hindbrain tegmentum at the level of entrance of the eighth cranial nerve .
primary sensory neurons with cell bodies located in the dorsal spinal cord ,  that innervate the integument of the trunk and tail at early larval stages .
an acidophilic cell of the anterior pituitary that produces growth hormone ,  somatotropin .
a mature sexual reproductive cell having a single set of unpaired chromosomes .
an epidermal cell which synthesizes keratin and undergoes a characteristic change as it moves upward from the basal layers of the epidermis to the cornified  ( horny )  layer of the skin .
a cell of the neural crest .
a cell of the sclera of the eye .
a cell of the choroid of the eye .
an undifferentiated cell produced by early cleavages of the fertilized egg  ( zygote )  .
a cell of the embryo in the early stage following the blastula ,  characterized by morphogenetic cell movements ,  cell differentiation ,  and the formation of the three germ layers .
a cell found in the outermost layer of the organism .
a cell whose function is determined by its response to an electric signal .
interneuron that is part of the central nervous system .
a cell that initiates an electrical signal and passes that signal to another cell .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
an acidophilic cell of the anterior pituitary that produces prolactin .
a cell of the intermediate pituitary that produces melanocyte stimulating hormone .
a cell of hematopoietic origin ,  typically resident in particular tissues ,  specialized in the uptake ,  processing ,  and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via t cell activation .
a cell capable of producting norepinephrine .
a basophil cell of the anterior pituitary that produces adrenocorticotropic hormone ,  or corticotropin .
a basophil cell of the anterior pituitary that produces thyroid stimulating hormone ,  thyrotrophin .
a connective tissue cell of an organ found in the loose connective tissue .
a supporting cell for the developing female gamete in the ovary of mammals .
a cell found throughout the gastrointestinal tract and in the pancreas .
a flattened stroma cell forming a sheath or theca outside the basal lamina lining the mature ovarian follicle .
a precursor cell destined to differentiate into cardiac myocytes .
a precursor cell destined to differentiate into smooth muscle myocytes .
a myoblast that differentiates into skeletal muscle fibers .
a non - neuronal cell that surrounds the neuronal cell bodies of the ganglia .
a neuron which conveys sensory information centrally from the periphery .
a neuron which sends impulses peripherally to activate muscles or secretory cells .
a nerve cell where transmission is mediated by nitric oxide .
a primary motor neuron part of the spinal cord .
motor neurons that arise during the first day of development .
motor neurons that develop several hours later than primary motoneurons and sprout axons several hours after the primary motor growth cones have extended to the periphery .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a pigment cell .
a cell of the b cell ,  t cell ,  or natural killer cell lineage .
a progenitor cell committed to the granulocyte and monocyte lineages .
an immature erythrocyte showing a basophilic reticulum under vital staining .
a precursor in the monocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between the monoblast and monocyte .
a late neutrophilic metamyelocyte in which the nucleus is in the form of a curved or coiled band ,  not having acquired the typical multilobar shape of the mature neutrophil .
interneuron of the vertebrate retina .
an erythrocyte having a nucleus .
a neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myeloblast and myelocyte ,  and containing a few ,  as yet undifferentiated ,  cytoplasmic granules .
a mesenchymal cell found in the developing heart .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
one of the two photoreceptor cell types in the vertebrate retina .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages ,  osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells .
a neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a promyelocyte and a metamyelocyte ;  in this stage ,  differentiation of cytoplasmic granules has begun .
a macrophage resident in the peritoneum under non - inlfammatory conditions .
a neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myelocyte and the band form neutrophil .
an epithelial cell that has its apical plasma membrane folded into microvilli to provide ample surface for the absorption of nutrients from the intestinal lumen .
a specialized osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of cementum .
an elongated ,  spindle - shaped ,  quiescent myoblast lying in close contact with adult skeletal muscle .
a projection neuron in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus .
a receptor in the vascular system ,  particularly the aorta and carotid sinus ,  which is sensitive to stretch of the vessel walls .
one of the two photoreceptor cell types of the vertebrate retina .
a neuron that uses gaba as a vesicular neurotransmitter .
a secretory cell that is grouped together with other cells of the same type to form grape shaped clusters known as acini  ( singular acinus )  .
a lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells .
a cell that is found in the perisinusoidal space of the liver that is capable of multiple roles including storage of retinol ,  presentation of antigen to t cells  ( including cd1d - restricted nkt cells )  ,  and upon activation ,  production of extracellular matrix components that can contribute to liver fibrosis .
glial cell of the retina that forms a support structure stretching radially across the thickness of the retina .
a supportive cell of the vertebrate pituitary that provides macromolecular transport and secretes hormones .
a primordial germ cell is a diploid germ cell precursors that transiently exist in the embryo before they enter into close association with the somatic cells of the gonad and become irreversibly committed as germ cells .
cell of the intestinal epithelium with a brush border made up of many parallel packed microvilli ;  associated with absorption ,  particularly of macromolecules .
a transient cell present only in the developing cns .
an absorptive cell of the mammalian gut epithelium that endocytoses microorganisms and intact macromolecules from the gut lumen and transports them to the subepithelial space where they are presented to antigen - presenting cells and lymphocytes .
a cell that transports hormones from neurosecretory cells .
a fibroblast - like cell that provides support at neuromuscular junctions in vertebrates and are localized outside the synaptic basal lamina .
a neuroglial cell of the peripheral nervous system inside the basal lamina of the neuromuscular junction providing chemical and physical support to the synapse .
a stellate interneuron having 7 - 10 dendrites that may branch .
one of a transient population of pioneering neurons in the cerebral cortex .
a neuron that releases dopamine as a neurotransmitter .
cell that provides some or all mechanical ,  nutritional and phagocytic support to their neighbors .
a specialized endothelial cell that senses extracellular signals and guides the directed growth of blood vessels .
specialized ependymal cell that produces the cerebrospinal fluid from the blood and secretes it into the lumen of the brain and spinal chord .
stromal cell that forms the internal covering of the vertebrate brain and produces ecm for this and the choroid plexus .
a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
a cell of a layer of transitional epithelium in the wall of the bladder ,  ureter ,  and renal pelvis ,  external to the lamina propria .
an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages ,  found in blood or other tissue .
the set of neurons that receives neural inputs via bipolar ,  horizontal and amacrine cells .
a motor neuron that is located in the cervical region of the spinal cord and selectively innervates the sternocleidmastoid or trapezius muscle .
a round chondrocyte that first differentiates in the late embryonic growth plate of bone .
a terminally differentiated chondrocyte that differentiates in the late embryonic growth plate of bone .
a columnar chondrocyte that differentiates in the late embryonic growth plate of bone .
a neuron that laterally connects other neurons in the inner nuclear layer of the retina .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with photoreceptors cells and neurons in the inner plexiform layer .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with photoreceptors cells and neurons in the inner half of the inner plexiform layer .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with photoreceptors cells and neurons in the outer half of the inner plexiform layer .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with rod photoreceptor cells and neurons in the inner plexiform layer .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptor cells and neurons in the inner plexiform layer .
a nucleated blood cell involved in coagulation ,  typically seen in birds and other non - mammalian vertebrates .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  mast cell ,  megakaryocyte ,  or erythroid lineage .
a immature or mature cell in the lineage leading to and including erythrocytes .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  or mast cell lineage .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
any of the immature forms of a neutrophil in which neutrophilic specific granules are present but other phenotypic features of the mature form may be lacking .
a specialized mononuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of bone ,  precursor of multinuclear osteoclasts .
a specialized mononuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of cementum .
a b cell that is mature ,  having left the bone marrow .
a terminally differentiated ,  post - mitotic ,  antibody secreting cell of the b cell lineage with the phenotype cd138 - positive ,  surface immunonoglobulin - negative ,  and mhc class ii - negative .
a memory b cell is a mature b cell that is long - lived ,  readily activated upon re - encounter of its antigenic determinant ,  and has been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
a naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  cd27 - negative ,  and cd38 - negative ,  and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor complex .
a t cell that expresses a gamma - delta t cell receptor complex .
a gamma - delta t cell that has an immature phenotype .
a gamma - delta t cell that has a mature phenotype .
a gamma - delta t cell of the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a distinctly differentiated long - lived t cell that has the phenotype cd45ro - positive and cd127 - positive .
an immature b cell is a precursor b cell that has the phenotype surface igm - positive and surface igd - negative ,  and have not undergone class immunoglobulin class switching or peripheral encounter with antigen and activation .
a precursor b cell is a b cell with the phenotype cd10 - positive .
an immature b cell of an intermediate stage between the pre - b cell stage and the mature nave stage .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally immature ,  has the phenotype cd34 - negative ,  cd117 - positive ,  cd122 - positive ,  and cd161 - positive ,  and expresses additional natural killer cell receptors  ( nkr )  .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally mature ,  has the phenotype cd16 - positive ,  and expresses a variety of inhibitory and activating receptors that recognize nhc class i and other stress related molecules .
a progenitor committed to the natural killer cell lineage ,  expressing certain phenotypic markers of the natural killer cell lineage such as the il - 15 receptor ,  but lacking many of the phenotypic characteristics of later stages of natural killer cell development such as expression of nk activating and inhibitory molecules .
a progenitor cell of the b cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific activity such as early stages of recombination of b cell receptor genes ,  but not yet fully committed to the b cell lineage until the expression of pax5 occurs .
a progenitor cell of the t cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific marker expression ,  but not yet fully committed to the t cell lineage .
a progenitor cell of the thrombocyte ,  a nucleated blood cell involved in coagulation typically seen in birds and other non - mammalian vertebrates .
a progenitor cell of the neutrophil lineage .
the most primitive precursor in the granulocytic series ,  having fine ,  evenly distributed chromatin ,  several nucleoli ,  and a nongranular basophilic cytoplasm .
a hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell is multipotent ,  but not capable of long - term self - renewal .
a progenitor cell restricted to the lymphoid lineage .
a progenitor cell restricted to the myeloid lineage .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
an olfactory receptor cell in which the apical ending of the dendrite is a pronounced ciliated olfactory knob .
an olfactory receptor cell in which the apical ending of the dendrite is a knob that bears numerous microvilli .
an olfactory receptor cell with short cilia growing in an invagination bordered by microvilli .
a neuron that releases serotonin as a neurotransmitter .
neuromast mantle cell is a non - sensory cell .
neuromast support cell is a non - sensory cell of the neuromast that extend between the sensory hair cells from the basement membrane to the apical surface ;  neuromast support cells are surrounded by neuromast mantle cells .
olfactory epithelial support cell is a non ciliated columnar cell that extends from the epithelial free margin to the basement membrane of the olfactory epithelium .
interneuromast cell is a neuroectodermal cell deposited by the migrating lateral line primordium between the neuromasts .
hair cell is a mechanoreceptor cell that is sensitive to movement of the hair - like projections  ( stereocilia and kinocilia )  which relay the information centrally in the nervous system .
neuromast hair cell is a hair cell that acts as a sensory receptor of the neuromast ;  it is morphologically polarized as a result of the relative position of the single kinocilium and the clusters of stereocilia on its apical surface .
a skeletal muscle myoblast that differentiates into slow muscle fibers .
a skeletal muscle myoblast that differentiates into fast muscle fibers .
epithelial cell part of duct .
an epithelial cell of the kidney .
a cuboidal epithelial cell of the kidney that regulates acid / base balance .
a cuboidal epithelial cell of the kidney which secretes acid and reabsorbs base to regulate acid / base balance .
an epithelial cell of the intrahepatic portion of the bile duct .
epithelial cell found in the ducts of the pancreas .
an epithelial cell derived from endoderm .
epithelial cells derived from neural plate and neural crest .
an epithelial cell derived from ectoderm .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
a cell whose primary function is to support other cell types .
epithelial cell derived from mesoderm or mesenchyme .
cell that is part of the kidney .
a cell of the supporting or framework tissue of the body ,  arising chiefly from the embryonic mesoderm and including adipose tissue ,  cartilage ,  and bone .
lymphatic progenitor cells .
mesenchymal derived lymphatic progenitor cells that give rise to the superficial lymphatics .
lymphatic progenitor cells ,  derived from the veins ,  that give rise to lymphatic endothelial cells .
the neurons that utilize glycine as a neurotransmitter .
an epithelial cell that is part of the bile duct .
multi fate stem cell that gives rise to both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes as descendants .
an epithelial cell of the intestine .
an epithelial cell of the esophagus .
a  vertebrate lens cell that is any of the elongated ,  tightly packed cells that make up the bulk of the mature lens in a camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  somite specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of left / right asymmetry in lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ectoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lateral mesoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 5 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 7 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 8 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 6 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 9 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal muscle fiber development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  swim bladder inflation .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retinal neural layer  ( retinal photoreceptor layer of ventral region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  surface structure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of rol2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage  ( hyosymplectic cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rol2 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  olfactory bulb development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fasciculation of sensory neuron axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  glomerular layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory bulb of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory bulb of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  crescent - shaped  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  porphyrin - containing compound metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  lethal  ( sensu genetics )   ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  fluorescence  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endoderm formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endodermal cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  neural plate anterior / posterior regionalization .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endoderm of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  cleft  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  somite  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  forebrain ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endochondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  perichordal connective tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal / ventral pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epidermal cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  post - anal tail morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  having extra processual parts  ( of )  post - anal tail morphogenesis  ( post - anal tail morphogenesis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  heart rudiment  ( heart rudiment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm  ( adaxial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of left side  ( rhombomere 5 of right side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  ovate  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( post - vent region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  rotational curvature  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( tail bud )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( notochord )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord neural rod of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  spinal cord neural rod of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fourth ventricle development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hypothalamus development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hindbrain development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  retinoic acid catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  forebrain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic retina morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly ventralized  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic heart tube morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endocardium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cardioblast migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  optokinetic behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  rhythm quality  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to absence of light .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to auditory stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axon midline choice point recognition .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuromuscular process controlling balance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuromuscular process controlling balance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  equilibrioception .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  viability  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  movement behavioral quality  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hindbrain commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  low brightness  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart looping .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  curvature  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  ossification involved in bone maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  camp biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  gtp biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  striated muscle cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  actin filament bundle distribution .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  trunk of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  skeletal muscle of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fast muscle cell of muscle thin filament tropomyosin .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  fast muscle cell of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  undistributed  ( of )  fast muscle cell of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spinal cord motor neuron cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spinal cord oligodendrocyte cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord of glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  spinal cord of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  symplectic .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  wholeness  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural plate development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  oligodendrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rhombomere boundary formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  radial glial cell division in pallium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell differentiation involved in pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  hindbrain of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hindbrain of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  hindbrain of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  prominent  ( of )  telencephalon of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  telencephalon of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  telencephalon of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased variability of size  ( of )  optic tectum of capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased variability of size  ( of )  optic tectum of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of ventricular zone  ( radial glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  caudal fin blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  caudal fin blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  caudal fin blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  caudal fin blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  peripheral neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  post - vent region of segmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  portion of tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  spliceosomal snrnp assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cajal body organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mrna cis splicing ,  via spliceosome .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  whole organism of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  whole organism of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cell of cajal body .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  cell of small nuclear ribonucleoprotein complex .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural crest cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  hydrocephalic  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  hydrocephalic  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  hydrocephalic  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dola .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  thalamus development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  thalamus development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  wnt - activated signaling pathway involved in forebrain neuron fate commitment .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  forebrain development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cell migration in diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epiphysis of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epiphysis of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  prechordal plate of antero - lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  linear  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  linear  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  trigeminal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  trigeminal placode of sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  presumptive telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  presumptive diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  dorsal thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior intestine of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  parapineal organ .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  tract of the postoptic commissure of primary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  mid diencephalic organizer .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  mid diencephalic organizer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorso - rostral cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  swim bladder morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood island of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sensory system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  activation of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lens development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endocardium development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retina layer formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lens fiber cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lens fiber cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  lens  ( retina )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lens of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  lens of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  variant shape  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  myotome of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  corneal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  corneal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  rhythm quality  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0072358 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vascular cord .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart jogging .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mrna catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic heart tube left / right pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  heart looping .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of digestive tract left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  heart  ( whole organism of left - right axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aligned with  ( of )  heart  ( whole organism of central region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aligned with  ( of )  heart tube  ( whole organism of central region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  intestine  ( whole organism of left - right axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mesodermal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  thyroid gland development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pectoral fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  enteric nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  digestive tract development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  smooth muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased intensity  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of intestine left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  heart primordium  ( heart primordium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart primordium of myocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  enteric nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestine of smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestine of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hemoglobin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  low saturation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  cranial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cranial ganglion of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  cranial ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  esophagus .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  heart of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  atrial myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  atrial myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass density  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myeloid cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  granulocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  granulocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  definitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  definitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood island of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood island of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood island of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  monocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  calcium - dependent cell - cell adhesion via plasma membrane cell adhesion molecules .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  palate  ( palate )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  central nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  notochord development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  curled  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased adhesivity  ( of )  whole organism of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural retina development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  head development .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  melanocyte of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  xanthophore of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  iridophore of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  heart jogging .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  floor plate formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  floor plate formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural plate anterior / posterior regionalization .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  developmental process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axial mesodermal cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  convergent extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  central nervous system of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  floor plate of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  eye  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  eye  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fourth ventricle of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  notochord of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  centered  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus  ( medial longitudinal fasciculus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  cranial nerve iv  ( cranial nerve iv )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive floor plate of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  presumptive floor plate of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere region .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  parachordal cartilage  ( parachordal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  chondrocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  trabecula cranii  ( trabecula cranii )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  pupil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  skeletal muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic cranial skeleton morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  somite of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cephalic musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  stacked  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of muscle fiber development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of muscle fiber development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myeloid cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic heart tube development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  heart primordium of left side  ( heart primordium of right side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hormone activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nitric oxide biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of cardiac muscle contraction by calcium ion signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  artery morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  venous blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  primitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  distal tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  proximal convoluted tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  flow rate  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( caudal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( blood vasculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( trunk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  conductivity  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  non - contractile  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  common cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  anterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  trunk of anterior side  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  simple columnar epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  simple cuboidal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage  ( ceratobranchial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus  ( pronephric glomerulus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  basilar artery .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  hematopoietic system .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  trabecular layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hepatic sinusoid .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  electric potential  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  rna processing .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  translational initiation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  nodal signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  blastomere of rna localization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased life span  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of mitotic cell cycle ,  embryonic .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  secondary neural tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  diencephalon development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  melanocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  forebrain development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  midbrain development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  actin - myosin filament sliding .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell proliferation in midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  negative regulation of transcription ,  dna - templated .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic neurocranium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic viscerocranium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  xanthophore differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  melanocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ventral thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  ventral thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( xanthoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( melanoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( xanthoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( melanoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  stomodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  alar plate midbrain region .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  alar plate midbrain region of apical junction complex .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  circadian regulation of gene expression .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  atrium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  presumptive atrium primitive heart tube of cardiac muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  voltage - gated sodium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  voltage - gated sodium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mechanosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  sensory perception of touch .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of neuron neural crest derived .
abnormal ( ly )  mobile  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  mechanoreceptor cell of voltage - gated sodium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  membrane potential  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased life span  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  syncytium formation by plasma membrane fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of microtubule cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of rho - dependent protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  macula utricle  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion  ( neuroblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  pillar of the semicircular canal  ( pillar of the semicircular canal )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  macula saccule  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  kidney  ( erythroid progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  binucleate  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  teardrop - shaped  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic viscerocranium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cartilage morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  curved caudal  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  dentary  ( maxilla )  .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  mandibular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  opercle of cartilaginous joint .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  opercle of cartilaginous joint .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  curved caudal  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  falciform  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  concave 3 - d shape  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  symplectic .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  infraorbital lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  opercular lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  opercular lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  opercular lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  opercular lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  middle lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( palatoquadrate cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventral hyoid arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  anterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratohyal - branchiostegal ray joint .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interhyal - epihyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  melanosome localization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cellular pigment accumulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retina development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optomotor response .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heme biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( erythroid lineage cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  kidney  ( erythroid lineage cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of pancreatic left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of heart left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of liver left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axonal fasciculation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterior / posterior axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  anterior / posterior axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  collateral sprouting in absence of injury .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of sensory neuron  ( sensory neuron of presynaptic active zone )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cranial nerve iii .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic chiasm of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  supraoptic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  supraoptic tract of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  dorso - rostral cluster of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  dorso - rostral cluster of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  dorso - rostral cluster of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of axon  ( hindbrain of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of axon  ( spinal cord of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of axon  ( spinal cord of axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( hindbrain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( telencephalon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( diencephalon of ventral region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( eye of contralateral side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  vestibular reflex .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  anterior macula  ( posterior macula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  macula of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lapillus .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  lapillus  ( sagitta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior macula of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  balance  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased coordination  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  otolith  ( saccule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  otolith  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  vestibular reflex .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  macula utricle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  utricle  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  utricle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( facial ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( glossopharyngeal ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( vagal ganglion 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( vagal ganglion 2 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  lens morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lens morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  anterior / posterior pattern specification .
abnormal ( ly )  elliptic  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  rhombomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of peptide hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  d cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  increased speed  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  motor neuron of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  coracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  retroarticular .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratobranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ceratohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  entopterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hyomandibula .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  parachordal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  basal plate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  exocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hepaticobiliary system development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  gall bladder development .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  green  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  green  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreas of acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gall bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( secondary islet )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  pancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic duct  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  basal plate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  occipital arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  digestive system duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus  ( neurosecretory neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain of serotonergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  ventral thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  preoptic area .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  caudal tuberculum .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic pattern specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pharyngeal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon  ( mid diencephalic organizer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  in contact with  ( of )  ventral thalamus  ( dorsal thalamus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  dorsal thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  crowded  ( of )  rhombomere of primary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  rhombomere of primary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  upper rhombic lip .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hindbrain commissure of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  mid diencephalic organizer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  mid diencephalic organizer .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  mid diencephalic organizer .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  radial glial cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  tangled  ( of )  radial glial cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  neural retina development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neural retina development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  bone resorption .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  macrophage chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding into  ( of )  spinal cord  ( central canal )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retina of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hemal arch of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural arch of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypodermis of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypodermis of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  muscle pioneer of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  muscle pioneer of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  fast muscle cell  ( fast muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  response to external stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ventricular system development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hypothalamus cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dopamine metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  swim bladder inflation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sensory perception of touch .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell - cell adhesion involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of neurosecretory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  uninflated  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  preoptic area of neurosecretory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal tuberculum of neurosecretory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal tuberculum of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventricular zone of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  blastoderm of blastoderm cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hepatic sinusoid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hepatic sinusoid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  hepatic sinusoid of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior neural keel of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic heart tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  extracellular matrix organization .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  embryonic heart tube elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic heart tube elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell migration involved in heart formation .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  unstructured  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  surface feature shape  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  otic vesicle of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  heart rudiment  ( heart rudiment of extracellular matrix )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  heart rudiment  ( heart rudiment of extracellular matrix )  .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  heart rudiment of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  embryonic structure .
abnormal ( ly )  surface feature shape  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  forebrain ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  otolith  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of apical part of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mechanosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fluid transport .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  membrane depolarization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of resting membrane potential .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retina of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retina of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  microtubule cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endodermal cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  invagination involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  yolk of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  blastodisc of deep blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  crowded  ( of )  blastodisc of deep blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  mesodermal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  hypoblast of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( blood island )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  basophilic erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  desaturated blue  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal / ventral pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  bmp signaling pathway involved in mesodermal cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural plate development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  brain development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  anterior neural plate formation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  prechordal plate  ( notochord )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  broad  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  whole organism of embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of gene expression .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of cell cycle phase transition .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of activation of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  midbrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hindbrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  hindbrain of anterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hatching gland .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to auditory stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  axonogenesis involved in innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  clustering of voltage - gated calcium channels .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  presynaptic membrane assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  postsynaptic density assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of postsynaptic density  ( neuromast hair cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone )  .
abnormal ( ly )  unbranched  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rod bipolar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of voltage - gated calcium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cyclin - dependent protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retina morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron  ( spinal cord of axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  neural crest cell  ( spinal cord of lateral margin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  proneural cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased pigmentation  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly ventralized  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  u - shaped  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  afferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  lens development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retina layer formation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  closure of optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardinal system .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  eye of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interrenal primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  interrenal primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  corneal stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  corneal endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hyaloid vessel of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  periocular mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  yolk of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endocardial progenitor cell migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endocardium formation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  establishment of spindle orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cloaca development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epithelial cell migration involved in distal tubule morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  proctodeum of anatomical region  ( cloacal chamber )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  cloacal chamber .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  visual behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  melanosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  detection of light stimulus involved in sensory perception .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  u - shaped  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  heart looping .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  whole organism of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  central nervous system neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  synaptic transmission ,  glycinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cellular response to mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  polarity specification of dorsal / ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  spindle - shaped  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  platelet aggregation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  thrombocyte activation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  caudal artery  ( thrombocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle satellite cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle fiber development .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  saccular  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  somite of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  somite of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  mononucleate  ( of )  somite of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  somite of myofibril  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  dystrophic  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased strength  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  dystrophic  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  skeletal muscle  ( skeletal muscle cell of fibrillar collagen trimer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  skeletal muscle of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  skeletal muscle of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased contractility  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  slow muscle cell  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  fast muscle cell  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  histone h3 - k9 methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  oncosis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  basophilic  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  grey  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell - cell adhesion involved in mesendodermal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  homotypic cell - cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  embryonic cleavage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  chordate embryonic development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hatching gland .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  lateral mesoderm of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  lateral mesoderm of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neural tube of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  germ cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sensory perception of light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of synaptic transmission ,  glutamatergic .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  gap junction hemi - channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optomotor response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  horizontal cell of gap junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  horizontal cell of gap junction .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  horizontal cell of connexin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mesoderm migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal convergence .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  evl of anatomical surface .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased adhesivity  ( of )  evl of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  evl of cell  ( evl )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  primordial germ cell of cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  definitive erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  optic vesicle  ( neurectodermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  thalamus development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve vii of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial nerve v of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  zona limitans intrathalamica .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic camera - type eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  inner ear morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pillar of the anterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pillar of the posterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  semicircular canal development .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  notochord development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  developmental pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  notochord of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  notochord of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  notochord of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  notochord of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  muscle cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  muscle cell of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( extension )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blood vessel remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  rhombomere formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  common cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  rhombomere 3  ( rhombomere 5 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  caudal commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  acetylcholinesterase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  acetylcholinesterase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  synaptic transmission ,  cholinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  associative learning .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  spinal cord of rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  trunk musculature of nuclear envelope .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  trunk musculature of nuclear envelope .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  trunk musculature of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  trunk musculature of sarcoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  trunk musculature of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk musculature of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  paralysed  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neural tube of rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  muscle cell of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle cell of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pectoral fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  pronephric duct development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( somite 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric duct of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pronephric duct of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  branchial muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mandibular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  medial rectus of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  head  ( trunk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  head of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  vertebral column of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  scalloped  ( of )  corneal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  corneal endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart valve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hyaluronan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  axonal fasciculation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dendrite development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  branching involved in lymph vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  olfactory bulb axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum  ( rop motor neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum  ( motor neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  parachordal vessel of venous endothelial cell migration involved in lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding into  ( of )  vap motor neuron of axon  ( muscle pioneer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  dorso - rostral cluster of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  multiple  ( of )  dorso - rostral cluster of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  posterior to  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon  ( olfactory bulb )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon  ( anterior commissure )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon  ( medial protoglomerulus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon  ( dorsal zone olfactory bulb )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon  ( lateral zone olfactory bulb )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon  ( lateral protoglomerulus 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon  ( lateral protoglomerulus 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon  ( lateral protoglomerulus 2 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  efferent neuron of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  efferent neuron of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nuclear migration .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  retina layer formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuroblast development .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal motor nucleus of vagus nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  melanocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  maintenance of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  eye pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  dense  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  unstratified  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  retina of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cornea of anatomical surface .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone  ( ceratobranchial 5 tooth )  .
abnormal ( ly )  saccular  ( of )  corneal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  corneal epithelium of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  corneal stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  dorsolateral motor nucleus of vagal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  neuroblast of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pigmented epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pigmented epithelial cell of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  amacrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular adhesivity  ( of )  corneal epithelial cell  ( corneal epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hepatoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  atrioventricular valve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  mesodermal cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  atrioventricular canal development .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  margin of presumptive mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endocardial cushion of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  aortic arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  arrhythmic  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  mesodermal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  notochord formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glycosaminoglycan metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  notochord morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  dorsal convergence .
abnormal ( ly )  oriented towards  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliated cell  ( kupffer's vesicle of anterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  oriented towards  ( of )  floor plate of ciliated cell  ( floor plate of anterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  oriented towards  ( of )  pronephric duct of ciliated cell  ( pronephric duct of anterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  rhombomere .
abnormal ( ly )  dislocated  ( of )  ventral fin fold of cell  ( proctodeum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dwarf - like  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  whole organism of medial - lateral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  folded  ( of )  post - vent region of notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  cranial cartilage of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  folded  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  notochord posterior region of cell  ( notochord posterior region of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  anterior neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  visual behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  thyroid gland development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endocrine system  ( thyroid follicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  spinal cord of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pectoral fin musculature of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pectoral fin of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  inner ear development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  otic vesicle of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior crista of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior crista of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  otic vesicle protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  otic vesicle protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pillar of the anterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  dystrophic  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  optokinetic behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  optomotor response .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  schwann cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  schwann cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  schwann cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myelin assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  oligodendrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  semicircular canal morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  semicircular canal fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  melanocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  otic vesicle of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of sodium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of sodium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  undistributed  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of sodium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of sodium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  lateral crista primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  posterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  anterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( pigment cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  macula of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  otolith organ .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior crista of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anterior crista of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( melanoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  head of pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  enteric nervous system of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  enteric nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  presumptive enteric nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vagal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased speed  ( of )  glial cell of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  glial cell of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  hatching .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  hatching gland development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hatching gland cell of secretory granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hatching gland cell of secretory granule .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  peripheral nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  melanocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  otic placode formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  autonomic nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ectodermal placode development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  olfactory placode development .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton  ( ceratobranchial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  lens placode .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  olfactory pit .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  olfactory pit .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  peripheral nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  trigeminal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  locus coeruleus of adrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  medulla oblongata of adrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  quadrate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  quadrate .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( sympathetic nervous system of neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( neural crest cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  adenohypophyseal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  sloped downward  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( meckel's cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  medially rotated  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  anterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trabecula communis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  medial longitudinal catecholaminergic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior catecholaminergic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  anterior catecholaminergic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  preopticohypothalamic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  olfactory field .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  circadian regulation of gene expression .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  female germ - line stem cell population maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal convergence .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  pancreas of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  basilar artery .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  basilar artery .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  basilar artery .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  endodermal cell  ( margin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endodermal cell of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  endodermal cell of filopodium  ( whole organism of dorsal - ventral axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regionalization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac conduction system development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hindbrain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  digestive tract morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  non - contractile  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly anterioralized  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  atrioventricular node .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  atrioventricular node .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  islet .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  dorsal convergence .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mediolateral intercalation .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of obsolete cell .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sensory neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalized adaxially  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  subdermal  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  temporally extended  ( of )  digestive tract mesoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  lens of cell  ( lens epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lens fiber cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  retina of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  amacrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hindbrain of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hindbrain of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly anterioralized  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly anterioralized  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  spinal cord neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  selective angioblast sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  artery morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic retina morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  dorsal aorta  ( posterior cardinal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood island of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  optic tectum of grey matter .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly ventralized  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( hyosymplectic cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  rotated  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( ceratobranchial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage  ( ceratobranchial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  cranial cartilage  ( cranial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  brain segmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  rhombomere of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( mandibular arch skeleton )  .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cns interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic viscerocranium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  persistence  ( of )  mesodermal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  mesodermal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mesodermal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  anterior lateral line neuromast hair cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast hair cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  involution involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  otic vesicle morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hypoblast of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased speed  ( of )  hypoblast of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  hypoblast of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  saccule .
abnormal ( ly )  broken into two pieces  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  utricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  caudal fin of endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  pharyngeal ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral line of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  oral ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  oral ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  oral ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  mesodermal cell of lamellipodium .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular rhythm  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular rhythm  ( of )  cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  rhythm quality  ( of )  cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  non - contractile  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  pronephric podocyte  ( pronephric podocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  midbrain development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuron projection development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain vasculature  ( central artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  motor neuron of cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mauthner neuron of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  mauthner neuron of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  cell aging .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  dark grey  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac atrium development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hindbrain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  spinal cord neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of protoneuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  central nervous system projection neuron axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sclerotome development .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  sclerotome .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  inconspicuous  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  pointed  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  habenula development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cerebellum  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  third ventricle of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  third ventricle of columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular adhesivity  ( of )  third ventricle of columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell  ( third ventricle of columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of right side  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of lateral region  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of medial region  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  habenula of left side  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  habenula of right side  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hyomandibula .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  chondrocyte of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  notochord morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  notochord cell vacuolation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  notochord of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  translucent  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  translucent  ( of )  larval melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  translucent  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  peripheral nervous system of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  cell aging .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  stubby  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  wrinkled  ( of )  cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  peripheral nervous system of nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  otolith organ .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  low saturation  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  unpigmented  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  ruffled  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  punctate  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  thymus of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  alternative mrna splicing ,  via spliceosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of alternative mrna splicing ,  via spliceosome .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  circling  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  s phase .
abnormal ( ly )  surface feature shape  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heparan sulfate proteoglycan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chondroitin sulfate biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  sulfation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  endochondral bone morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial cartilage of collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial cartilage of collagen type i trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial cartilage of collagen type ii trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial cartilage of collagen type vi trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  oriented  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  exocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  yolk of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gut of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  notochord of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retina of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retina of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thymus primordium of common lymphoid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  post - vent region of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  open  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cns neuron  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  endocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  notochord of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  proliferative region of spindle pole .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chondrocyte intercalation involved in growth plate cartilage morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell junction organization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hyomandibula .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of anterior side  ( ceratohyal cartilage of posterior side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial cartilage of fibrillar collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial cartilage of collagen type ii trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial cartilage of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  crowded  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  perichondral bone .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  perichondrium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  chondrocyte  ( chondrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  chondrocyte  ( chondrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  chondrocyte of fibrillar collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  smooth  ( of )  chondrocyte of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  chondrocyte of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  chondrocyte of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  chondrocyte of cell projection membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  temporally extended  ( of )  mitotic m phase .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spindle organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic chromosome movement towards spindle pole .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic metaphase plate congression .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spindle assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  lens  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( retina of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( cell of centrosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  retina of mitotic m phase .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  retina of mitotic prometaphase .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  retina of mitotic prometaphase .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  retina of m phase .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retina of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  retina of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  head of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  sigmoid  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cell of gamma - tubulin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cell of spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cell of spindle pole centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cytokinesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chromosome segregation .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blastomere of germ plasm .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blastoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastoderm of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  blastoderm of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  blastoderm of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  cell of midbody .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  melanosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  extension of yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal pigment epithelium development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  eye pigment granule organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  melanosome organization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  retinal cell programmed cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  developmental pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  eye pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  swim bladder formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  neuron apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  mottled  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  degree of pigmentation  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  swim bladder formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased weight  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  swim bladder formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  striated muscle myosin thick filament assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle thin filament assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  mitotic s phase .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  mitotic m phase .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of heart rate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  fat cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cellular senescence .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  sinus venosus  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  myotome of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  alignment  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( palatoquadrate cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ear development .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  inner ear of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  posterior crista primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  anterior crista primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  germ cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina layer formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment of planar polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart looping .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart looping .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  opsin transport .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  left / right pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  cloacal chamber .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cloacal chamber of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased height  ( of )  cloacal chamber of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment of mitotic spindle orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  neural fold folding .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  facial nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  brain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  floor plate of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of motor neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  rhombomere 6  ( branchiomotor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric duct of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephros of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  gall bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  left side of  ( of )  gall bladder  ( whole organism )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cloacal chamber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cloacal chamber of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  rhombomere 5  ( branchiomotor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  rhombomere 7  ( branchiomotor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  presumptive pronephric mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  hydrocephalic  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  clavate  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  post - vent region of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  lateral orientation  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ciliated cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  ciliated cell of mitotic spindle  ( pronephros of apical - basal axis relative to substrate )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  centered  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  pronephric duct of cell  ( pronephros of pronephric glomerular basement membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation in forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  hindbrain of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  cranial nerve v of neuronal cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranial nerve v of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal tuberculum  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  unbalanced  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased behavioural activity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  exit from mitosis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment or maintenance of apical / basal cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  motor neuron precursor migration involved in dorsal motor nucleus of vagus nerve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  apical junction assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal neural layer of apical junction complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  eye of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  heart tube of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  heart tube of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  curled  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic cup of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pericardial cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  vagal ganglion  ( vagal ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of apical junction complex .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axonal defasciculation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  learning or memory .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  long - term synaptic potentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  diencephalon of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion  ( sensory neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  lateral longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  lateral longitudinal fasciculus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  cranial nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  increased behavioural activity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  head of anterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  head of anterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  forebrain ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( basihyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardioblast migration .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  myocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  posterior caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  alkaline phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  curvature  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  pronephric tubule of plasma membrane  ( pronephric tubule of plasma membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric tubule of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pronephric tubule of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric tubule of brush border epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  gut epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  gut epithelium of plasma membrane  ( gut epithelium of plasma membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart jogging .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell migration in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endocardial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  rotated  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  neural tube of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  scaly  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  diencephalon of neurosecretory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  preoptic area .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuroendocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  post - vent region of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  maintenance of dna repeat elements .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  s phase .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  embryonic retina morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  camera - type eye photoreceptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of neural retina development .
abnormal ( ly )  unstructured  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  unstructured  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  amacrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  digestive system development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  chondrocyte of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  muscle attachment .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  basihyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  basihyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  ceratobranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  ceratobranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myocardium of intercalated disc .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  slow muscle cell of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  caudal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  diencephalic white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalic white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  blood vessel remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  caudal division of the internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  basal communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  basal communicating artery  ( primordial midbrain channel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  basal communicating artery of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  basal communicating artery of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  basal communicating artery of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  posterior communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior communicating artery of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior communicating artery of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  basilar artery .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  basilar artery  ( primordial hindbrain channel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  atretic  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  thymus development .
abnormal ( ly )  fragile  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  fragile  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  basihyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  multicellular organism development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural tube development .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  brain of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon  ( third ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brainstem and spinal white matter of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorso - rostral cluster of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ribosomal small subunit assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ribosome biogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  intestine of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of autolysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium of apical - basal axis relative to substrate .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord motor neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  neural crest cell  ( neural crest cell of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  postdisplaced growth  ( of )  intramembranous ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  predisplaced growth  ( of )  endochondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  renal system process .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  adult locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  magnesium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  growth .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  melanin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  melanin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  calcium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  urostyle .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  metapterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  basihyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  caudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  hypural .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  skeletal system .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  frontal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  premaxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  ceratohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  quadrate .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  epihyal .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  ectopterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  entopterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  epural .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  hyomandibula .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  symplectic .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  weberian apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  weberian apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  weberian vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  ceratobranchial 4 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  ceratobranchial 3 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  ceratobranchial 2 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  renal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  parapophysis / rib .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  epithelial cell of pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  intensity  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  low saturation  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  colorless  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  melanocyte of regulation of membrane potential .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  mitotic prometaphase .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic centrosome separation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  chromosome condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle ,  embryonic .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic sister chromatid separation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic spindle assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  fragile  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  cell of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size  ( of )  cell of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cell of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  congested  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  detection of light stimulus involved in visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  swim bladder development .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  determination of left / right asymmetry in lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  apical protein localization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epithelial cilium movement involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell migration involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  basement membrane organization .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetry  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetry  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of mitotic cell cycle ,  embryonic .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  dwarf - like  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical surface .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  adherens junction organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  musculature system .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  exocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  gut epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle attachment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  muscle attachment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  t - tubule organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  receptor clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  camera - type eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  dorsal aorta of intersegmental vessel  ( dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  somite of myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite of intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  granular layer corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  trunk musculature of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  u - shaped  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  vertical myoseptum of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  myotome of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  u - shaped  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell  ( myotome of muscle tendon junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  dystrophic  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  post - vent region of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  post - vent region of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  unstructured  ( of )  muscle of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  dystrophic  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  muscle cell  ( vertical myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  muscle cell  ( muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( vertical myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of terminal cisterna .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcolemma  ( skeletal muscle cell of sarcolemma )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  determination of left / right asymmetry in lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  optokinetic behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein localization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  determination of pancreatic left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lateral mesoderm morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  detection of light stimulus involved in visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  notochord cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  epithelial cilium movement involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  basement membrane assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  determination of digestive tract left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  determination of liver left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of laminin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  moderately well differentiated  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  notochord of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  notochord of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pancreas of endocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of laminin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  u - shaped  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural tube of laminin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  forebrain midbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  intestinal bulb primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  ipsilateral to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  fast muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  actin filament organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spermatogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  muscle organ morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  notochord  ( cell of rough endoplasmic reticulum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  notochord of collagen type iv trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite of muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of basal part of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  outer dynein arm assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  inner dynein arm assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of cellular response to dna damage stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium  ( pronephric duct of inner dynein arm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium  ( pronephric duct of outer dynein arm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  posterior pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  visceral muscle development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of blood pressure .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  peripheral nervous system neuron axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ventricular cardiac myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased strength  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  grey  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of a band .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of a band .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hatching .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  stubby  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( basibranchial )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  epithelium of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  esophagus of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pneumatic duct of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  pneumatic duct of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  pneumatic duct of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pneumatic duct of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  esophageal epithelium of mucus secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic vesicle protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  response to osmotic stress .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cytolysis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  erythrocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  gall bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  spleen .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  kidney of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fragility  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  pointleted  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of cell projection membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  telencephalon development .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  axonal defasciculation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial nerve vi of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial nerve x of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial nerve ix of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial nerve v of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  cranial nerve v of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  facial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  lateral line nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  actin binding .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  intestine smooth muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  peristalsis .
abnormal ( ly )  non - contractile  ( of )  intestine of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  gtpase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  brain development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  camera - type eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  unstructured  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cell proliferation in midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pigment granule maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( epithelial cell of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  renal system process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cell of spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of postero - ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  hepatocyte of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of glycogen granule .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hydrocephalic  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  brain of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  olfactory system .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  forebrain cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axonogenesis involved in innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  forebrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  hatching .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hatching gland development .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  hatching gland .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hatching gland cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hatching gland cell of secretory granule .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  hatching gland cell of secretory granule .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cell  ( cell of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cilium or flagellum - dependent cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hindbrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hindbrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  forebrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  forebrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  pigmented  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  pericardial cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glomerular filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  mesonephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rhombomere 4 development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hindbrain tangential cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  protein localization to nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lipoprotein catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  protein phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  non - canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  protein initiator methionine removal .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mesoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic heart tube morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  heart valve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle progenitor cell migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endocardial cushion formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  post - vent region  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  split medially  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  split medially  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  atrial myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  ventricular endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  ventricular endocardium  ( ventricular myocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  muscle attachment .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic neurocranium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cartilage morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  edge shape  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cephalic musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  ceratohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ventral transverse .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  caudal fin of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( ceratobranchial 5 tooth )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pharyngeal pouch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( ceratobranchial 2 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( ceratobranchial 3 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( ceratobranchial 4 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( ceratobranchial 5 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( dermal bone )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratobranchial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratobranchial 3 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratobranchial 4 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral larval melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  lateral larval melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  multinucleate  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  desaturated yellow  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  low saturation  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  motor neuron of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cerebellum development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axon target recognition .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  optic tectum of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  optic tectum of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  optic tectum of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  photoreceptor cell outer segment organization .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( eye photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  notochord cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  notochord cell vacuolation .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  epidermis of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  epidermis of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  notochord of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  notochord of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  notochord of caveola .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  notochord of caveola .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  notochord of cell  ( notochord of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite of caveola .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  nervous system of caveola .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  peridermal cell of caveola .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  melanocyte of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle cell of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  animal organ regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  liver of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  ploidy  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  polyploid  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  aneuploid  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  whole organism of condensed chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  tangled  ( of )  whole organism of condensed chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  whole organism of nucleus  ( whole organism of nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  post - vent region of spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rrna catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  amyloid precursor protein metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  brain of white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventricular zone of astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  cerebral spinal fluid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cns neuron  ( sensu vertebrata )  of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( angiogenic sprout )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  histone h3 - k36 methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  bone development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  leukocyte migration involved in inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  apoptotic chromosome condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  dorsal fin fold of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epidermis of hemidesmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  epidermis of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  texture  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  rugose  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  caudal fin of epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventral fin fold of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventral fin fold of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement ,  spinal reflex action .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  potassium:chloride symporter activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  heterochronic  ( of )  epithelial cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  negative regulation of tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  diencephalon of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ventral telencephalon of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ventral telencephalon of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  telencephalic white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  telencephalic ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cns neuron  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of actin cytoskeleton reorganization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart rudiment development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cellular pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  heart primordium  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  cylindrical  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pharyngeal arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial neural crest of neural crest cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of transcription elongation from rna polymerase ii promoter .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  edge shape  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  erose  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region of ventral larval melanophore stripe  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  yolk larval melanophore stripe  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  median fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  median fin .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  degree of pigmentation  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  iridophore  ( median fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  trna transcription .
abnormal ( ly )  complexity  ( of )  enteric nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  surface feature shape  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  intestine of smooth muscle contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of anterior region  ( epithelial cell of microvillus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  exocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  receptor recycling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  germ cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endosomal transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  early endosome to recycling endosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of chemokine activity .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinoic acid catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly posterioralized  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  vagal lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hypural .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  frontal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  frontal bone  ( parietal bone )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  supraorbital bone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pectoral fin of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  vertebra  ( vertebra )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  arrow - shaped  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  parachordal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  parachordal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  bone element .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  inter - frontal joint of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  open  ( of )  inter - parietal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  inter - parietal joint of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  frontal - parietal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  frontal - parietal joint of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  star shaped  ( of )  osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  osteoblast of rough endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal / ventral axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  notochord development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fluid flow  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pronephric duct of medial side  ( pronephric duct of medial side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  trunk vasculature  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  post - vent vasculature  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  vasculature  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  spinal cord neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  gut endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  phagolysosome assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  notochord development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  chordo neural hinge .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  forebrain of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  retina  ( retina )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pectoral fin cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  optic primordium  ( optic primordium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pectoral fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  bulbous  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size  ( of )  pectoral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pars superior ear .
abnormal ( ly )  open  ( of )  optic furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  glucose import .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of cholesterol storage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  programmed cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  actin cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood island of thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood island of thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  kidney development .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mitotic sister chromatid cohesion .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cell of spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal aorta  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of polysome .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  median fin .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  median fin .
abnormal ( ly )  ruffled  ( of )  median fin .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal muscle acetylcholine - gated channel clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  disheveled  ( of )  forebrain of neuromere .
abnormal ( ly )  inconspicuous  ( of )  third ventricle of compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  larval development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pre - mirna processing .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sarcomerogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  eye of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  eye of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intersegmental artery of branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  head of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  convergent extension involved in neural plate elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  polster  ( notochord )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - most region  ( whole organism of posterior - most region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  cranial nerve x .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oocyte morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oocyte animal / vegetal axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastodisc .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage ii of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage ii of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage ii of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage ii of cortical granule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage iii of cortical granule .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  oocyte stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage i of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage i of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage i of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage i of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  oocyte stage i of mitochondrial cloud .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage i of mitochondrial cloud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  unfertilized egg .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  unfertilized egg .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  unfertilized egg of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  unfertilized egg of chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  otolith morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  caudal fin upper lobe  ( caudal fin lower lobe )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  magnesium ion transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  evl of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  evl of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lipid phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  phosphatidylinositol dephosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  semicircular canal formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  inner ear of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  inner ear of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  domed  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  having decreased processual parts  ( of )  locomotory behavior  ( skeletal muscle contraction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  peripheral neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic heart tube morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cardiac muscle progenitor cell migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  post - vent region of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  negative regulation of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  complexity  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  macrophage chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased cellular motility  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  animal organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oligodendrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ventral spinal cord interneuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell differentiation in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  abducens nucleus development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oligodendrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  spinal cord of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve vi of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  lateral floor plate of kolmer - agduhr neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  motor neuron  ( motor neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of posterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dna replication .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  multicellular organism development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  polyploid  ( of )  whole organism of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  tetraploid  ( of )  whole organism of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  endopolyploid  ( of )  whole organism of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  head of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  anterior neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cell .
abnormal ( ly )  polyploid  ( of )  cell of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  undivided  ( of )  cell of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of cyclin - dependent protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  re - entry into mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation in hindbrain ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( primary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( primary interneuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  primary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  voltage - gated calcium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  brain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  y - shaped  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventricular system of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula  ( neurocranial trabecula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  curved lateral  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myoblast fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mononucleate  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cap motoneuron  ( cap motoneuron of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cap motoneuron  ( primary motor neuron of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  colorless  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  branching morphogenesis of an epithelial tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trunk of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lipid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of fatty acid beta - oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  brain of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  brain of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  spinal cord of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  liver of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  liver of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuromast of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  neuromast of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  kidney of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  ventricular zone of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  whole organism of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  grey matter .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  sensory neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  mauthner neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  extracellular matrix constituent secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pectoral fin cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  auditory capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  immature eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rrna processing .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  exit from mitosis .
abnormal ( ly )  opacity  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  liver of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cysteine - type peptidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  peptidyl - serine phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  otolith mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  spheroid  ( of )  branchiostegal ray of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of collagen type ii trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula of collagen type ii trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cranial cartilage of collagen type ii trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cranial cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  cranial cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  blunt  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  muller cell of apical region .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  protein localization .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  inner ear morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  median fin fold of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  ventral fin fold of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  sterile  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pectoral fin  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  dorsal fin  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pelvic fin  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pupil .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  pupil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pupil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pupil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  pupil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  dorsolateral septum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  urea transport .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuron of positive regulation of erk1 and erk2 cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lipid localization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chondrocyte morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  cartilage element of collagen type ii trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neurocranium of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trabecular layer of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  leukocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pronephric capsular space .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spinal cord motor neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  digestive tract development .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  forebrain ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  heparan sulfate proteoglycan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mitotic spindle organization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle ,  embryonic .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endochondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  branchiomeric skeletal muscle development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  histone h2a monoubiquitination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  direct ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly ossified  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly ossified  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly ossified  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( meckel's cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( neurocranial trabecula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( palatoquadrate cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( ethmoid cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( hyosymplectic cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( parachordal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( sternohyoid )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( ventral intermandibularis anterior )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( ventral intermandibularis posterior )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( adductor mandibulae )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( interhyoideus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( hyohyoideus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pectoral fin  ( scapulocoracoid )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pectoral fin  ( mesocoracoid cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly ossified  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pronephric duct of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  testis of seminoma .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  malignant  ( of )  whole organism of lymphoid neoplasms .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decayed  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  diencephalon of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalon of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  eye of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decayed  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  binucleate  ( of )  fast muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  fast muscle myoblast  ( fast muscle myoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell proliferation in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  hindbrain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  rhombomere of pattern specification process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  rhombomere of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neuroectoderm of pattern specification process .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  optic fissure  ( optic fissure )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  somite development .
abnormal ( ly )  tubular  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  tubular  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  atrium  ( sinus venosus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  myotome of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  skeletal muscle myoblast of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  binucleate  ( of )  erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  blastomere  ( blastoderm of dorsal region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( presumptive endoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  internal yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vacuole organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endothelial tube morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  yolk of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  myocardium  ( endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  inner optic circle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural crest formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural crest cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  bulbous  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intraciliary transport .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( branchiomotor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  otic vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  direction  ( of )  pronephric duct of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  whole organism of anterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neural tube of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blue sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  pigmented  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spliceosomal tri - snrnp complex assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mrna splicing ,  via spliceosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myeloid leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pigment cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  female sterile  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of pigment cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypodermis of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypodermis of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pigment cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  chordate embryonic development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  liver and biliary system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  unbranched  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  glomerular filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  glomerular filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glomerulus morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glomerular capillary formation .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephros of renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  pronephros of capillary loop nephron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephros of capillary loop nephron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephros of mesangial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  pronephric podocyte  ( dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  folded  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  inserted into  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of cell projection  ( pronephric capsular space )  .
abnormal ( ly )  surrounding  ( of )  lamina densa  ( pronephric podocyte of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased permeability  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  eye  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sympathetic nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  erythrocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  chromatic property  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  establishment of blood - brain barrier .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  phospholipase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  peptidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  bile acid secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glucose homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  liver and biliary system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  female organism of trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardioblast migration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  cloacal chamber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( intermediate cell mass of mesoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( yolk of anatomical surface )  .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  ovarian follicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  oocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  maturity  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  maturity  ( of )  ovarian follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retina development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  retinal neural layer of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  translation .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  endochondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  optic cup morphogenesis involved in camera - type eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse angle to  ( of )  somite  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myotome of muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myotome of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  folded  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( vascular sprouts )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  renal glomerulus of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  renal glomerulus of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  variant shape  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  olfactory region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  optic primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse angle to  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  cranial cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranial cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  slow muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood island of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  curvature  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to ionizing radiation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  integument of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  trunk of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  face development .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  synaptic growth at neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  skeletal muscle acetylcholine - gated channel clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle acetylcholine - gated channel clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  peripheral neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cap motoneuron of growth cone .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  growth .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  primitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  necrotic cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  notochord of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  segmental plate of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  mesodermal cell  ( mesodermal cell of bleb )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord dorsal / ventral patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  forebrain regionalization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  adenohypophysis development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  forebrain development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal / ventral axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  diencephalon of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  midbrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  caudal commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  lateral floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsoventral diencephalic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  tract of the postoptic commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  phagocytosis ,  engulfment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hindbrain of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  forebrain of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retina of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  caudal commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  cranial nerve iv of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  potassium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hatching gland .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  somite of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of potassium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  membrane potential  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myosin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myosin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mrna splicing ,  via spliceosome .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  posterior intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  smooth  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  hyaloid vessel of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  embryonic heart tube morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cardiac muscle progenitor cell migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  embryonic heart tube development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  histone h4 - r3 methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  obsolete cytoskeletal anchoring at plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  prechordal plate formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cell migration involved in mesendoderm migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anterior axial hypoblast of bleb .
abnormal ( ly )  permeability  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  rrna processing .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  rrna transcription .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( heart )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein  ( dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  angiogenic sprout of endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of filopodium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  photoreceptor cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of organelle .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of organelle .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal cone cell of organelle .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  peptidyl - lysine trimethylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  peptidyl - lysine monomethylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of left / right asymmetry in diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  magnitude  ( of )  histone methyltransferase activity  ( h3 - k9 specific )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  centered  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  centered  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  centered  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  centered  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sensory perception of touch .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle fiber development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  myotome of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  myotome of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  myotome of myofibril  ( myotome of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  neuromast  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pancreas morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular adhesivity  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel endothelial cell  ( intersegmental vessel of blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  evl  ( external yolk syncytial layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neurocranium of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  neurocranium of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  response to auditory stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  partially paralysed  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  central nervous system neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axial mesoderm structural organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  brain of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  muscle cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased speed  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  caudal tuberculum of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  caudal tuberculum of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly anterioralized  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  axial vasculature  ( intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 26 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  retina of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 20 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 30 .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  atrium  ( bulbus arteriosus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 17 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 23 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 27 .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  somite 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 18 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 21 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 24 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 28 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 16 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 19 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 22 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 25 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 29 .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  somite 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  multicellular organismal locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  peripheral neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  post - vent region of intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  caudal vein plexus  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cartilage condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  chondrocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  ammonium transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  blood island of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  dorsal aorta  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  somite of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hepatocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hepatocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  liver morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  pointed  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  blastoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  caudal fin of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  head of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  trabecula communis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optokinetic behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  myotome of cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  otic vesicle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral fin cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otolith organ  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  otolith organ  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  immature posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  vestibuloauditory system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  otic vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  atrioventricular valve development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell proliferation involved in heart valve development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chemical synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optokinetic behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  vestibular reflex .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synaptic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lateral line development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  tight  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite  ( muscle pioneer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite  ( fast muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  lateral larval melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  cephalic musculature of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  trunk musculature of trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  whole organism of blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  orbital region of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  determination of left / right asymmetry in diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  metapterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of cartilaginous joint .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ammonium homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  flux  ( of )  vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  flux  ( of )  keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myocardium of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of h zone .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of i band .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of h zone .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of i band .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  calmodulin - dependent protein kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of rna splicing .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  proximal pars anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  convergent extension .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle of gap junction .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardiac muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardiac muscle of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  endothelial cell of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  mitotic g1 phase .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  dna damage response ,  signal transduction by p53 class mediator resulting in cell cycle arrest .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood island of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic camera - type eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( optic chiasm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  bleb assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  mesodermal cell of bleb .
abnormal ( ly )  pigmented  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  protein phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cortical actin cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  filopodium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  convergent extension .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( parachordal vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  whole organism of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  whole organism of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  whole organism of forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  whole organism of evl .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  whole organism of yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  whole organism of del .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  medial fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epidermis morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  keratinocyte of cell surface .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  unpigmented  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  low saturation  ( of )  larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  orbit of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  medial fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  protein localization to adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  punctate  ( of )  median fin fold of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  median fin fold of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0005913 .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  median fin fold of epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  median fin fold of epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pectoral fin  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  anal fin  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal fin  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  cranial nerve v of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  skeletal muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  negative regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  negative regulation of epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  integument of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epithelial cell of lamellipodium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  mandibular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  mobility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  basement membrane assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  integument  ( whole organism )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  dermis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of transcription by rna polymerase ii .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  whole organism of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  whole organism of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  digestive tract development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  digestive tract development .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mid intestine epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic placode formation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trigeminal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic pectoral fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  negative regulation of heart rate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  regulation of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line of neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  thymus  ( lymphocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hypaxial myotome region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein prenylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  melanosome organization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal neural layer  ( retinal outer plexiform layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular thickness  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer  ( photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disheveled  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  pigmented epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cation transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cation transport .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  adenohypophysis morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  somatotropin secreting cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  prolactin secreting cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  corticotropin hormone secreting cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  central nervous system  ( white matter )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  motor nucleus of vagal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  optic chiasm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial nerve ix .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  adenohypophyseal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  lateral floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somatotropin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  prolactin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( diencephalon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation in midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  developmental pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  embryonic morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  head  ( trunk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  taxis .
abnormal ( ly )  growth quality of occurrent  ( of )  swim bladder formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral larval melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endothelial cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spinal cord development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ventral spinal cord interneuron specification .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  auditory receptor cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  generation of neurons .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  taste bud formation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  artery of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  brain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  brain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  central nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  epiphysis  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( radial glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain of dorsal region  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hindbrain of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  somite 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of cns interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  habenula .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  habenula of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hair cell posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion  ( sensory neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( pigment cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  tela chorioidea .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  tela chorioidea .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal tuberculum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  somite 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  somite 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  somite 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental artery of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  rhombomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rhombomere of primary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  physical quality  ( of )  taste bud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis  ( rohon - beard neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis  ( primary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of medial - lateral axis  ( rohon - beard neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk of anterior region  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( pigment cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line placode  ( sensory neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disheveled  ( of )  pectoral fin of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin of myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  roof plate spinal cord region .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  roof plate spinal cord region  ( roof plate spinal cord region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  roof plate spinal cord region of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  optic cup  ( radial glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass density  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  anterior lateral line placode  ( sensory neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  rhombic lip .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature  ( thyroid primordium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cosa .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  veld .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cid .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  concave  ( of )  hindbrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  fasciculation  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  fasciculation  ( of )  primary neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epidermis of somatic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  neurohypophysis of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  nak ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  granulocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased strength  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  proctodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  forebrain of ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  presumptive telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  muscle cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  muscle cell of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  delamination involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( kupffer's vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  trigeminal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  auditory capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  otic vesicle protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pillar of the semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  apoptotic dna fragmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  immature eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell proliferation involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in neural crest cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell - cell junction organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  negative regulation of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pigment cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  habenula of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  interpeduncular nucleus tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac ventricle development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  forebrain midbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cell migration involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  curved lateral  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  scale of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  swim bladder development .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  habenular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  low saturation  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( eye of ipsilateral side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuron - neuron synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast hair cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  paralysed  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron of cilium - dependent cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron of cilium - dependent cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hypothalamus development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  afferent axon development in posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  coiled  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  establishment or maintenance of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  third ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  third ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neural tube of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  outer limiting membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  actin filament polymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  falciform  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardiovascular system .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  cardiovascular system .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  dissociated from  ( of )  intersegmental artery  ( dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  intersegmental artery  ( intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  supraintestinal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  chemical synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased intensity  ( of )  chemical synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation in forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  forebrain neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation in midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellum of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  forebrain  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  motor neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  perpendicular to  ( of )  motor neuron of neuron projection  ( spinal cord )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  establishment of mitotic spindle orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  secondary neural tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neural keel of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neural rod of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neural tube of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of catenin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  direction  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  exocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  anterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  exocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  calcium ion transport .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic digestive tract morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( atrium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of cell cycle arrest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle arrest .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite  ( fast muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  open  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cranium  ( cranial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  curved lateral  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  curved medial  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( ventral wall of dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  muscle of myofibril  ( muscle of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  muscle of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  muscle of t - tubule  ( muscle of t - tubule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  muscle of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  muscle cell of cytoplasmic vesicle  ( muscle of sarcolemma )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  anterior / posterior axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  lateralized  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  head  ( post - vent region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  trunk of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  branching morphogenesis of a nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  peripheral nervous system neuron axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  swim bladder of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  esophageal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  extrapancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  square  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pectoral fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral fin field .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  head of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  somatic muscle development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mesodermal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  paraxial mesodermal cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  paraxial mesodermal cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased cellular motility  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased cellular motility  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  protein n - linked glycosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lipooligosaccharide catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  opercle of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  branchiostegal ray of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  ventrally rotated  ( of )  mouth  ( head )  .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  entopterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  notochordal ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuron projection morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver and biliary system of bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver and biliary system of intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  head of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  photoreceptor inner segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  multicellular organism growth .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  adipose tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass  ( of )  adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  fat cell of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dna methylation on cytosine .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory placode of pioneer neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory placode of pioneer neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pharyngeal muscle development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  semicircular canal morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic growth  ( of )  pharynx development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  straight  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  levator arcus palatini .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  macula .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  macula .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased angle to  ( of )  atrium  ( cardiac ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  dilatator operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  parachordal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage  ( pharyngeal arch cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion  ( epibranchial ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of neural crest cell  ( pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of neural crest cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  constrictor dorsalis .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( sperm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of compact myelin .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hindbrain of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  spinal cord of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cortical actin cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuron apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  g1 to g0 transition .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  head of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  neural tube of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  inner optic circle .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  endocardial ring .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  posterior neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  egg activation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  meiotic sister chromatid cohesion involved in meiosis ii .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oocyte microtubule cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ribonucleoprotein complex assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  embryonic camera - type eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  actin cytoskeleton reorganization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sperm aster formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  meiotic metaphase ii plate congression .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nucleus inheritance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sister chromosome movement towards spindle pole involved in meiotic sister chromatid segregation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  head development .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  blastomere of astral microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blastomere of aster .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  blastomere of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blastomere of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blastomere of astral microtubule organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  blastomere of cortical microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastomere of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  blastomere of p granule .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  blastomere of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  unfertilized egg of meiotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  unfertilized egg of microtubule bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  endocardial ring .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  interkinetic nuclear migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  presumptive neural retina .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  presumptive neural retina of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  semi - lethal  ( sensu genetics )   ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  head of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  evl  ( evl of bicellular tight junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  evl of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  male gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  postdisplaced growth  ( of )  male gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  female gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic growth  ( of )  female gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased cellular motility  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  primordial germ cell  ( primordial germ cell of bleb )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primordial germ cell of cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  proctodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  somite of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( myotome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  vertebral column  ( vertebra )  .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  mesodermal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation involved in compound eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( amacrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( amacrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retina of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  auditory capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  mediolateral intercalation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  whole organism of left - right axis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalized adaxially  ( of )  forebrain of retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  macula utricle of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  upturned  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  macula saccule of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  forerunner cell group  ( forerunner cell group )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  forerunner cell group  ( forerunner cell group )  .
abnormal ( ly )  direction  ( of )  forerunner cell group of pseudopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  ventricular system  ( cerebral spinal fluid )  .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  jnk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic cranial skeleton morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic skeletal joint morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  face morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly anterioralized  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( anterior macula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  optic chiasm .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pars superior ear  ( anterior crista )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cilium or flagellum - dependent cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axoneme assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  growth .
abnormal ( ly )  altered number of  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( ciliated cell of axonemal microtubule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetry  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  straight  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  lateral floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  medial floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  roof of mouth development .
abnormal ( ly )  cleft  ( of )  trabecula communis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  macula utricle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral crista of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hair cell posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hair cell posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior crista of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior crista of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  integument ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  macula saccule of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  neuromast hair cell  ( neuromast hair cell of stereocilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  neuromast hair cell  ( neuromast hair cell of kinocilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment or maintenance of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  diencephalon of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neural rod of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  neural rod of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neural tube of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein localization to adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  evl of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0005913 .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  del .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cerebellar central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  inner optic circle .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intersegmental artery of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  subintestinal vein of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  respiratory burst .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuron - neuron synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of proton - transporting atpase activity ,  rotational mechanism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  synaptic vesicle maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of cellular ph reduction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  synaptic vesicle lumen acidification .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of vacuolar proton - transporting v - type atpase ,  v1 domain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased acidity  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synaptic vesicle lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  axis of xanthoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  axis of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  axis of melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephros of glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  umbonate  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  elliptic  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  curvature  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  non - contractile  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased strength  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  atrium of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  digestive tract mesoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterior / posterior axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cerebellum morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cerebellum structural organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  forebrain anterior / posterior pattern specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  forebrain dorsal / ventral pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell precursor proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chemokine production .
abnormal ( ly )  chronic  ( of )  dna hypomethylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endodermal digestive tract morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  dna demethylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  negative regulation of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fluid flow  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  cerebellum of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cerebellum of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cerebellum of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( hepatocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium  ( atrioventricular canal endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  optic nerve head .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  excretion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  post - anal tail morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation involved in kidney development .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  pronephric duct of brush border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pronephric duct of brush border .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pronephros of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  testis of germ cell tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  testis of germ cell tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  testis of spermatogonium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  lateral line of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral line of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cornea development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  extracellular matrix assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  symplectic .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell proliferation involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  artery development .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental artery of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  ventricular system  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  axial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  definitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  signal transduction by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  heart trabecula formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  myocardium  ( trabecular layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sympathetic nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  alpha -  ( 1 -  > 6 )  - fucosyltransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( motor neuron of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( muller cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( retinal ganglion cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite  ( slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  somite of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( dorsal root ganglion of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  splanchnocranium  ( mandibular arch skeleton )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  primitive erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  posterior neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  posterior neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  transcription ,  dna - templated .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  negative regulation of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  positive regulation of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  eye of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  alkaline phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  discontinuous  ( of )  endoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  morphogenesis of embryonic epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  basal protein localization .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased acidity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  organismal quality  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  whole organism of brush border .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sodium ion transport .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cellular calcium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epidermal cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  water homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epidermis of pore complex .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  integument of integument ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epidermis of pore complex .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  head development .
abnormal ( ly )  curled  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  caudal fin actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cellular pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  melanin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  unpigmented  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac conduction system development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  asynchronous  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  carbonate dehydratase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  respiratory gaseous exchange by respiratory system .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  liver of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  liver of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  gall bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  hepatocyte of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  hepatocyte of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of gene expression .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endothelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  branching morphogenesis of an epithelial tube .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased circumference  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased circumference  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  solid lens vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  circulatory system process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  brain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myoblast fusion involved in skeletal muscle regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disheveled  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  fast muscle cell  ( fast muscle cell of nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  sigmoid  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  activation of innate immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pattern recognition receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  whole organism of axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  endothelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  trunk of lymph vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  somite of myofibril  ( somite of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  anterior commissure morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  posterior commissure morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  epiblast of actin cap .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  epiblast of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otolith organ  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalized adaxially  ( of )  retina of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pancreatic a cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( pancreatic b cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( pancreatic a cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( endodermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud  ( pancreatic b cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud  ( pancreatic a cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  mip motor neuron  ( mip motor neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  extrapancreatic duct of endocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hematopoietic system .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lens morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  anaphase - promoting complex - dependent catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  proteasome - mediated ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lens fiber cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  lens of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  lens of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lens of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  moderately well differentiated  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  evl of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  evl of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  evl of cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  del of extracellular space .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  camera - type eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retina of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pneumatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neutrophil aggregation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cytosolic small ribosomal subunit .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior lateral mesoderm of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cellular sodium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  elliptic  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  electrical conductivity  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retina of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina of central region  ( eye photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina of central region  ( eye photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina of central region  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  curled  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  whole organism of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  wholeness  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( yolk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  gut  ( whole organism of left - right axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  intersegmental artery  ( intersegmental artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  orbital region  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of mitochondrial chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  head of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  cerebellar central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  basihyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  left / right pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  paralysed  ( of )  olfactory placode of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  partially paralysed  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of intraciliary transport particle .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mitotic spindle assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of circulating cell  ( blood cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  hematopoietic system of cell  ( ball of anterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  erythroblast of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood vessel  ( blood cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood vessel of blood  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( intermediate cell mass of mesoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( common cardinal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  dorso - ventrally flattened  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell migration involved in mesendoderm migration .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  forebrain of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of adaxial cell  ( paraxial mesoderm of adaxial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  head of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  hindbrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  glucagon secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  muller cell of perikaryon .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic pectoral fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  epibranchial placode .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  yolk of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  ventral aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  ventral aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  anterior cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  anterior cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  attachment quality  ( of )  cranial vasculature  ( cranial vasculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranial vasculature of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  aortic arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  aortic arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  mid cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  prosencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  prosencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  mesencephalic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  mesencephalic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  mesencephalic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  mesencephalic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  brain vasculature of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( retinal inner plexiform layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( retinal outer plexiform layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( cranial nerve ii )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( pericardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  sinus venosus of myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lipid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver and biliary system .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  lumenized  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  granular layer corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  molecular layer corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  granular layer valvula cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  molecular layer valvula cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  anterior lateral line neuromast of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  yolk of peroxisome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of peroxisome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of peroxisome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  male meiosis i .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  meiotic metaphase i plate congression .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chiasma assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  male sterile  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  triploid  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased male fertility  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  lethal  ( sensu genetics )   ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  aneuploid  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased weight  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  brood viability  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spermatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spermatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spermatocyte of recombination nodule .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spermatogonium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular spatiotemporal quality  ( of )  germ cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  rod bipolar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cone retinal bipolar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  response to light intensity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased intensity  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epidermis of keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  action potential  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  positive phototaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of obsolete cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular thickness  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer  ( neuron of synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blue sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  on - bipolar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  on - bipolar cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  on - bipolar cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  on - bipolar cell of axon  ( retinal ganglion cell layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  on - bipolar cell of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  on - bipolar cell of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  on - bipolar cell of dendrite  ( retinal outer nuclear layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  locomotor rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  epiphysis of circadian regulation of gene expression .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  lens of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  curved lateral  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  erythrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  optic primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of ribosome .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  whole organism of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood cell of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart looping .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardioblast cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  atrial cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  heart  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  atrium  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  myocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  temporally extended  ( of )  cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  neuron maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinal cone cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinal rod cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  horizontal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  axial vasculature  ( intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myelination in peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myelination of anterior lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory placode of inner dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory placode of outer dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  spinal cord of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( epithelial cell of microvillus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephros of brush border .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephros of inner dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephros of outer dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  right side of  ( of )  parapineal organ  ( whole organism )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  opercular flap .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  neural tube of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of mesenchyme condensation cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  xanthoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  oculomotor nerve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cranial nerve iii of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial nerve iii of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuromast of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  kidney of renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  multi - ciliated epithelial cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  renal duct .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreas of zymogen granule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct  ( intrahepatic bile duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct  ( intrahepatic bile duct of vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct of smooth endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  enterocyte of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mesendoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  multiple  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dna methylation on cytosine within a cg sequence .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lens capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  yolk  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  atrial ventricular junction remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  developmental growth involved in morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  primordial germ cell of p granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  alpha - tubulin acetylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  granuloma formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epidermis development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  keratinocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  chorion  ( keratinocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  visual behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  melanocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  phototaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  detection of light stimulus involved in visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal neural layer of cholinergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  tail bud of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  yolk  ( whole organism )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  evl of ruffle .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  detection of visible light .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  double - strand break repair via homologous recombination .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  somitomeric trunk muscle development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  striated muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  somite of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  medial rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cephalic musculature of skeletal muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ventral rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  melanocyte stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  melanocyte stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  diencephalon of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thymus of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  altered number of  ( of )  trunk  ( intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cytoplasmic microtubule organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  filopodium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  microtubule severing .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of ventral region  ( palatoquadrate cartilage of dorsal region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage of dorsal region  ( ceratohyal cartilage of ventral region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  interhyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( cartilage element )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trunk musculature of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  colorless  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primary motor neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment of endothelial barrier .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  lumenized  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  third ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  telencephalic ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased coiling  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  muscle of z disc  ( muscle of z disc )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  long - chain fatty acid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hepaticobiliary system process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  gall bladder of lipid storage .
abnormal ( ly )  spheroid  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of rough endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  photoreceptor cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lens of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  lens of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spheroid  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased pigmentation  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal rod cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal rod cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( photoreceptor outer segment layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  buoyancy  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mid intestine of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lens epithelium of columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  lens epithelium of columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lens epithelium of columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  intestine of mucus layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hepatic sinusoid .
abnormal ( ly )  damage  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pancreatic acinar cell of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  goblet cell  ( intestinal epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  goblet cell of condensed nuclear chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  goblet cell of cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  goblet cell of exocytic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  enteroendocrine cell of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hepatocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hepatocyte of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  hepatocyte of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  hepatocyte of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of nuclear chromatin .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell  ( intestinal epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of autophagy of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of brush border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of brush border .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of brush border .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of positive regulation of autophagy in response to er overload .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  multiple  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  sodium ion transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ammonium transport .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  photoreceptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  extracellular matrix constituent secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  eye of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  retina of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  bruch's membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  chondrocyte of vacuole  ( chondrocyte of cytoplasm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  chondrocyte of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hepatocyte of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  hepatocyte of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  positive regulation of gene expression .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nuclear division .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic spindle organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  centriole replication .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic cleavage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  centrosome duplication .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  blastomere of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastomere of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  tetraploid  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  sperm of centriole .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  photoreceptor cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  photoreceptor cell outer segment organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinal cone cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  determination of heart left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  blurry  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  bulbous  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  parachordal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  olfactory pit .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  oral cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus  ( trigeminal motor nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural tube closure .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein localization to centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  cranial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myoblast fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hypobranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ceratobranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  ceratohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  symplectic .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  interhyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hypobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hypobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hypobranchial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  optomotor response .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  amacrine cell  ( amacrine cell of synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  amacrine cell of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  amacrine cell of dendrite  ( amacrine cell of dendritic branch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  amacrine cell of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  amacrine cell of dendrite morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  amacrine cell of dendritic tree .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  amacrine cell of dendritic tree .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  amacrine cell of dendrite extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  glial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal neural layer  ( retinal rod cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  eye  ( lens )  .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  tether cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment of anatomical structure orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  liver of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  liver of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  curved lateral  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  macula saccule of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  macula saccule of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  macula saccule of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  distance  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium  ( retinal outer nuclear layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chordate embryonic development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  notochord formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  notochord cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  coiled  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  notochord of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly posterioralized  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterior / posterior pattern specification .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  optic nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  positive phototaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  vestibular reflex .
abnormal ( ly )  splayed  ( of )  auditory receptor cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  afferent neuron  ( afferent neuron of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  afferent neuron of neuron projection development .
abnormal ( ly )  complexity  ( of )  afferent neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  transient  ( of )  afferent neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  brain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  floor plate of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  ventral mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myoseptum of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  auditory receptor cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  disheveled  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of vesicle membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gall bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  epidermis  ( muscle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  immature eye .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  permeable  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  epidermal cell  ( epidermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  epidermal cell of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  ball of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  extension of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  cartilaginous  ( of )  postcranial axial skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  gill of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  convergent extension involved in organogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  presumptive endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  presumptive mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of transcription ,  dna - templated .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of glucose metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary structural organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  eye pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  attenuate  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial ganglion of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  attenuate  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  attenuate  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  dorsal anterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  mechanosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  protein localization to cell surface .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of voltage - gated sodium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein sumoylation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  collagen fibril organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic camera - type eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  sclera of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  sclera of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sclera of fibroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neutrophil homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  crowded  ( of )  macula .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intermediate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  g2 / m transition of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  embryonic cleavage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  blastoderm cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastoderm cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular adhesivity  ( of )  blastoderm cell  ( blastoderm cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  blastoderm cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastoderm cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  concave  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  common cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  unstructured  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of striated muscle myosin thick filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  axial vasculature of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of ventricular cardiac muscle cell membrane repolarization .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  action potential  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  semi - viable  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  vertebral artery .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  tubulin - glutamic acid ligase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of axonemal microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pronephric duct of axonemal microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric duct of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  altered number of  ( of )  inner ear  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal fin lower lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( cranial vasculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( trunk vasculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  hindbrain of antero - ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of serotonergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased pigmentation  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  hypophyseal fenestra .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  anterior neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mrna polyadenylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  heart  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  common cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  multicellular organism growth .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  motor neuron of growth cone .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  glutamatergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  forebrain neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain of adrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory bulb of adrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  periventricular nucleus of caudal tuberculum  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pretectum  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pretectum of adrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral thalamus  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  preoptic area  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  preoptic area of adrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal tuberculum of adrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( axial blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuron fate commitment .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pancreas primordium  ( endocrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic bud  ( endocrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic bud  ( pancreatic b cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic bud  ( pancreatic a cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic bud  ( pancreatic a cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  veld .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  colorless  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  brown  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  dermis of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  dermis of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  brown  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  left / right axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of inner dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of outer dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  olfactory bulb of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  trunk of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  unpigmented  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell cycle arrest .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myelination in peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myelination of posterior lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spinal cord of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spinal cord of node of ranvier .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of node of ranvier .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  liver of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  liver of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  liver of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  liver of bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of node of ranvier .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of node of ranvier .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuron death .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  neural tube of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mucus secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  mucus secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  maintenance of blood - brain barrier .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  glucose import .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  blood vessel endothelium of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  blood vessel endothelium of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  permeable  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of lymph vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cerebellar central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior mesencephalic central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  middle mesencephalic central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior mesencephalic central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  vascular sprouts of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  cloacal chamber .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein localization to cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  caudal fin upper lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  caudal fin lower lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spliceosomal complex assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  thymus of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of u6 snrnp .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased circumference  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  predisplaced growth  ( of )  osteoblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  chondrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  proteoglycan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  cranium of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  cranium of perichondral bone .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  chondrocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  neurocranium of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  perichondral bone .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  perichondral bone  ( osteoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  nodular  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  mineralized  ( of )  axial fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  vertebra of centrum  ( centrum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  cardiovascular system .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dna replication checkpoint .
abnormal ( ly )  temporally extended  ( of )  mitotic prophase .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  s phase .
abnormal ( ly )  sporadic  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  sporadic  ( of )  tonic skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  whole organism of axis .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  thrombocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  congested  ( of )  common cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  intestine of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of cell  ( intestine )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  wnt signaling pathway ,  calcium modulating pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  convergent extension involved in somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  mitotic sister chromatid segregation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  mitotic prometaphase .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mitotic metaphase plate congression .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spindle assembly checkpoint .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  proliferative region of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  optic primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  caudal fin of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  head of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  trunk of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  monocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  proportionality to  ( of )  leukocyte  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreatic epsilon cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  protein glycosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  muscle of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  calcium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  post - vent region of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  leucine metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  synaptic transmission ,  cholinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiovascular system of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  brochidodromous  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  straight  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell delamination involved in blood vessel lumen ensheathment .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endothelial tube lumen extension involved in blood vessel lumen ensheathment .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  common cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  common cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  physical quality  ( of )  cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  atrial endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  atrial endocardium of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrial endocardium of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  angioblast cell migration from lateral mesoderm to midline .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  artery development .
abnormal ( ly )  slender  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  axial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chromosome segregation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle arrest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of spindle  ( retinal pigmented epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myeloid cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( myeloid cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  olfactory placode of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  curled  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of centriole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cilium or flagellum - dependent cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cilium movement involved in cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  floor plate of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  cloacal chamber of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  posterior pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  calmodulin - dependent protein kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of cardiac muscle contraction by calcium ion signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of collagen biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell migration involved in kidney development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation involved in pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  protein autophosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  pronephric duct of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pronephros of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  pronephros of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  inner ear of posterior - most region  ( pronephric duct of anterior - most region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cloacal chamber of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cloacal chamber of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pronephric duct opening .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  hindbrain of blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  sensory perception of touch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuronal stem cell population maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( secondary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  spinal cord of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  symplectic .
abnormal ( ly )  in contact with  ( of )  symplectic  ( meckel's cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  ruffled  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( hyosymplectic cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  heart formation .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  motor neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  glycolytic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  neuroblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  aerobic respiration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  respiratory electron transport chain .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  motor neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  unbranched  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  motor neuron of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood island of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  erythrocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  primitive erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood vessel of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  paralysed  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron of outer dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  somite rostral / caudal axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  anterior - posterior polarity  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  somite of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  somite of medial - lateral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  whole organism of medial - lateral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  peptidyl - lysine methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk of epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  post - vent region of epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  post - vent vasculature of postero - ventral region  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  fragile  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle ,  embryonic .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  optic tectum of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  optic tectum of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  stratum fibrosum et griseum superficiale .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  stratum fibrosum et griseum superficiale of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  amacrine cell of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle cell cellular homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  somite border of myosin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  slow muscle cell of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  slow muscle cell of type iii intermediate filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disassembled  ( of )  fast muscle cell of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  cardiac muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart jogging .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic heart tube left / right pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  left / right pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  determination of digestive tract left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium  ( kupffer's vesicle of axonemal central pair )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  split bilaterally  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  heart rudiment  ( whole organism of right side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  heart rudiment  ( whole organism of axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  caudal fin of musculature system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell - cell junction maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  aconitate hydratase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myelination of lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  otic placode  ( otic placode )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of apical surface .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  obsolete cytoskeletal anchoring at plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior axial hypoblast of lamellipodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior axial hypoblast of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  gut of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of actin filament bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  liver of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  endodermal cell of actin filament bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cell proliferation in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neurotransmitter biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement ,  spinal reflex action .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  floor plate of secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellum of cerebellar granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spheroid  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased tonicity  ( of )  pectoral fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pancreatic duct of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  pancreatic ductal cell  ( hepatic duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle organ morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of endocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventral fin fold of epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of compact myelin .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  otic vesicle lateral protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  mineralized  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  otic vesicle protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  branching involved in lymph vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  venous endothelial cell migration involved in lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cellular response to growth factor stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  dorsal aorta  ( endothelial tip cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gut of blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein  ( endothelial tip cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trunk of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin of blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( intersegmental vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lymphangiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  caudal fin of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( muscle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  protein kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epithelial structure maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  formation of anatomical boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cell of lamellipodium .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased force  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  skeletal muscle of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  post - vent region of epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cloacal septation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  renal system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  erythrocyte homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  homeostasis of number of cells within a tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  common cardinal vein of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  integument  ( epidermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  ventral fin fold  ( epidermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  monstrous  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic sister chromatid segregation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retina of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size  ( of )  retina of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  gastrula cell of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  m phase .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retina morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic neurocranium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelial structure maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  well differentiated  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  moderately well differentiated  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intestinal epithelium  ( epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  slow - twitch skeletal muscle fiber contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  taxis .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  slow muscle cell  ( slow muscle cell of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  slow muscle cell of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  slow muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  animal organ morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  histone h4 - k20 methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  melanosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cellular respiration .
abnormal ( ly )  inconspicuous  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( heart )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  heart of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  heart of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  telencephalon of postero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heparan sulfate proteoglycan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  chondroitin sulfate biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  tooth mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  sulfation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  diencephalon of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  midbrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  dorsomedial optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  pectoral fin of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  pectoral fin of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  sloped downward  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin fold of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  chondrocyte intercalation involved in growth plate cartilage morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pectoral fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral girdle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth  ( ceratobranchial 5 tooth )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased concentration  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth  ( enameloid )  .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth of distal surface .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  ventral tooth row  ( ceratobranchial 5 tooth )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal tooth row  ( ceratobranchial 5 tooth )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  pharyngeal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratobranchial 4 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  dermal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fin fold pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  fasciculation  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pronuclear fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pronuclear migration .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  blastomere of female pronucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  blastomere of female pronucleus  ( blastomere of aster )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  blastomere of centrosome  ( blastomere of male pronucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( yolk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  heart of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  excretion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreatic epsilon cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ghrelin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  glucagon secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial 3 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial 4 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  brain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  eye of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  otolith development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( lateral crista )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of cilium beat frequency .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  head mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral aorta  ( vascular associated smooth muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fragile  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  head  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  ventricular system  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial vasculature of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  cranial vasculature of blood vessel endothelial cell  ( head mesenchyme of mesenchymal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature  ( vascular associated smooth muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fragile  ( of )  mid cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  fragile  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disheveled  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  inner ear of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  photoreceptor inner segment layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor outer segment membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  catalase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  central nervous system neuron axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  post - anal tail morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular spatiotemporal quality  ( of )  vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  sensory perception of touch .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  head development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of superoxide dismutase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  brain of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  brainstem and spinal white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pretectum of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ansulate commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  caudal tuberculum of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disheveled  ( of )  caudal tuberculum of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  low brightness  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  peripheral neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial ganglion of perineuronal satellite cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral line system of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otolith organ .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  right side of  ( of )  heart  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  right side of  ( of )  heart rudiment  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  right side of  ( of )  liver  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  auditory receptor cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  curled  ( of )  renal tubule of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  response to retinoic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  postcranial axial skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rib .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer  ( amacrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer  ( amacrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pretectum  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pretectum  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  locus coeruleus  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pathway - restricted smad protein phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hypoblast  ( somatic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fin of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  notochord of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  notochord of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  integument of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  integument of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  ventral fin fold of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  trunk of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  inhibitory postsynaptic potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of synaptic transmission ,  glycinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  chemosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  glial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  developmental pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve  ( glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk of melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  post - vent region of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region of melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  post - vent region of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sympathetic chain ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  lymph vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gill raker .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  gill raker .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  pectoral fin of endochondral bone .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  brain of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  eye of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  eye of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  trochlear motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  oculomotor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  anterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  anterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  area postrema  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  periocular mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  periocular mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  v - shaped  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  protein kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  receptor - mediated endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  stem cell population maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  renal absorption .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  retinal neural layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of recycling endosome membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  visual system .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  ciliary zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  optic nerve head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  optic nerve head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  vitreous .
abnormal ( ly )  increased pressure  ( of )  anterior segment eye of aqueous humor .
abnormal ( ly )  increased depth  ( of )  posterior segment eye .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  photoreceptor cell outer segment organization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased variability of size  ( of )  lateral crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myotome development .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  postcranial axial skeleton of skeletal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  whole organism of axis .
abnormal ( ly )  dorso - ventrally flattened  ( of )  cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  exserted  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ncc ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  roof plate formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  roof plate midbrain region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of establishment or maintenance of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  diencephalon of establishment or maintenance of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pigment granule dispersal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of membrane raft distribution .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of membrane raft distribution .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased strength  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  telencephalon of anterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  perichondrium .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  perichondrium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  perichondrium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  chondrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  chondrocyte of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral floor plate of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly posterioralized  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  posterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  scf - dependent proteasomal ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  motile cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  determination of heart left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  determination of intestine left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetry  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetry  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  inner optic circle of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  schwann cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  eurydendroid cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oligodendrocyte cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  peripheral nervous system myelin formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  schwann cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lateral line nerve glial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  lateral line system  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellum of eurydendroid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve  ( epidermis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lateral to  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve  ( epidermis of basement membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve  ( myelinating schwann cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite of anterior region  ( slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  trunk of muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  trunk of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  post - vent region of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  sensory epithelium regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular potency  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  positive regulation of deoxyribonuclease activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lens fiber cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  nucleate quality  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  lens of chromatin .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  head of obsolete cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  endocardial ring .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of apoptotic dna fragmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  eye of apoptotic dna fragmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  chondrocyte of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  chondrocyte of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  chondrocyte of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  respiratory electron transport chain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of i band .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  branched - chain amino acid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephros of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  central canal of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  central canal of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vesicle - mediated transport .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  liver and biliary system of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  liver and biliary system of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  enterocyte of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  enterocyte of golgi stack .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hatching .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  muscle cell of nucleus  ( muscle cell of central region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( cns neuron  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  vascular sprouts  ( endothelial tip cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sympathetic ganglion development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  angioblast cell migration from lateral mesoderm to midline .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  vascular cord of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vascular cord of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  median fin fold of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  mitochondrial electron transport ,  nadh to ubiquinone .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventral aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage  ( ceratobranchial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dislocated  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage  ( ceratobranchial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  aortic arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  aortic arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primary head sinus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epithalamus development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  forebrain neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pretectum of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  epithalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  dorsal thalamus  ( pretectum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  dorsal thalamus of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  dorsal thalamus of cns neuron  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  dorsal thalamus of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  goblet cell of secretory granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  fragile  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  post - vent region of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary  ( otic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  paralysed  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephros of cilium - dependent cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  leukocyte chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  leukocyte of pseudopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  forebrain of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  heterochronic  ( of )  glandular epithelial cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased acidity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intestine of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased height  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of brush border .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  oocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  rna 3' uridylation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  embryonic pectoral fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hepatocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of branching morphogenesis of a nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neural plate of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural tube of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lymph vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( lymphangioblast cord )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic camera - type eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  yolk  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  atrium  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of axonemal dynein complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased coordination  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  ictal  ( of )  neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephros of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  pronephros of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ciliated cell of ciliary rootlet .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fucose biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  glycosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  dorsolateral motor nucleus of vagal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  dorsolateral motor nucleus of vagal nerve  ( dorsolateral motor nucleus of vagal nerve )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  inner ear of otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glomerulus development .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of intercalated disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of intercalated disc .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retina of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of shape  ( of )  retina of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  skeletal muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lipid storage .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hindbrain - spinal cord boundary formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  hindbrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  trunk mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  presumptive blood .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pronephric duct opening .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  posterior pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  respiratory burst involved in inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  iris .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pupil .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  detection of muscle stretch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  myotome of myofibril  ( vertical myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  respiratory system development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  gill filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  gill filament of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gill filament of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  planar cell polarity pathway involved in axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  neural plate of medial - lateral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  oblong  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  odontogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic skeletal joint morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intermandibularis .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth  ( ceratobranchial 5 bone )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of cartilage tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch of bony projection .
abnormal ( ly )  notched  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  notched  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  sternohyoid  ( bone tissue )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  head muscle  ( bone element )  .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  hyohyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  chondroblast of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  cellularity  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  partially broken  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  otolith formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  defecation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cortical granule exocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  positive regulation of cortical granule exocytosis by positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intestinal epithelial structure maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  blastomere of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  soft  ( of )  chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  marginal blastomere of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  marginal blastomere of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intestinal bulb  ( intestinal villus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  intestinal bulb of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  blastodisc .
abnormal ( ly )  increased circumference  ( of )  mid intestine of intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  mid intestine of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased circumference  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium of intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mid intestine epithelium of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  visual behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  light adaption .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of dopamine receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myoseptum of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( hypobranchial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  curled  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  vagal lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pars anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere region .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly anterioralized  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  prolactin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  posterior intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  posterior intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  posterior intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  posterior intestine of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior intestine of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior intestine of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  posterior intestine of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  posterior intestine of smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior intestine epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  posterior intestine epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  stratification  ( of )  posterior intestine epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior intestine epithelium of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  smooth muscle of myosin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  peripheral nervous system neuron axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  double - strand break repair via single - strand annealing .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cysteine - type peptidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  retinal neural layer  ( retinal pigmented epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  retinal neural layer of chromatin .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of chromatin .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  head of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  melanophore stripe of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor outer segment membrane  ( photoreceptor outer segment layer of vacuolar lumen )  .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  larval melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal rod cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of cell projection assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased cellular motility  ( of )  anterior axial hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  anterior axial hypoblast of bleb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  uncoordinated  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  melanosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mrna splicing ,  via endonucleolytic cleavage and ligation .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dolichol - linked oligosaccharide biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oligosaccharide - lipid intermediate biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  head development .
abnormal ( ly )  cleft  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  centered  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral  ( of )  epithalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  epithalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  epithalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  negative regulation of tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral fin of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  pectoral fin of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  hypobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cell of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  cell of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  central nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic camera - type eye formation .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast  ( neuromast of kinocilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7  ( ceratobranchial 2 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7  ( ceratobranchial 3 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7  ( ceratobranchial 4 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7  ( ceratobranchial 1 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7  ( ceratobranchial 5 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  blurry  ( of )  heart of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  heart of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  presumptive mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of nuclear chromatin  ( cardiac muscle cell of nuclear membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  skeletal muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  skeletal muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  osteoblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  intramembranous ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endochondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  osteoclast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  osteoblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  swim bladder morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  swim bladder formation .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  swim bladder of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  swim bladder of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  swim bladder of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  swim bladder of mesothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gut of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gut of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  opercle  ( subopercle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  opercle  ( interopercle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  opercle of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  opercle of antero - ventral margin  ( bone tissue )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  opercle of antero - ventral margin  ( osteoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  opercle of postero - ventral margin .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  opercle of postero - ventral margin  ( osteoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  interopercle  ( subopercle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 7 skeleton of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 7 skeleton of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior chamber swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  cartilaginous  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pneumatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intramembranous bone  ( branchiostegal ray )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gut epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  swim bladder bud .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter in response to stress .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( atrium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blood coagulation .
abnormal ( ly )  physical quality  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  posterior kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pericardium of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  phosphatidylinositol dephosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of perinuclear region of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ceratobranchial 3 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ceratobranchial 4 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  t cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  thymus of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  alpha - beta t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of voltage - gated sodium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of voltage - gated sodium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of node of ranvier .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  olfactory pit .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  gall bladder  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  extrahepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  endocardial ring .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hemoglobin binding .
abnormal ( ly )  autofluorescence  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  autofluorescence  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  autofluorescence  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  autofluorescence  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  nucleate quality  ( of )  lens of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  eye  ( retinal photoreceptor layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  atrium  ( cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  atrium  ( cardiac muscle cell of z disc )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cardiac chamber ballooning .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  skeletal muscle  ( slow muscle cell of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  slow muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optokinetic behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  optomotor response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  lens  ( retinal pigmented epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  lens  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degree of pigmentation  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  eye of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  dislocated  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium  ( lens )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic chiasm .
abnormal ( ly )  ipsilateral to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( brain of ipsilateral region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  habenula development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of dendrite morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  ventral habenular nucleus of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  neotenous growth  ( of )  axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  notochord of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  dystrophic  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  myotome of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dystrophic  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril  ( myotome of muscle tendon junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril  ( skeletal muscle cell of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  thrombocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  t cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neutrophil differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cranial ganglion  ( sensory neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( fourth ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( serotonergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  forebrain  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  locus coeruleus  ( norepinephrine secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  parapineal organ .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  sympathetic nervous system  ( norepinephrine secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain commissure of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetry  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fluid flow  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of portion of organism substance .
abnormal ( ly )  circling direction  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of portion of organism substance .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetry  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  cell of apical side .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cell of apical surface .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  convergent extension .
abnormal ( ly )  broad  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rhodopsin metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  photoreceptor inner segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  hydrocephalic  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse angle to  ( of )  vertical myoseptum  ( vertical myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell of membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lens of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  lens of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  lens of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  detection of light stimulus involved in visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  postsynaptic density assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  auditory receptor cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone  ( retinal outer plexiform layer of postsynaptic density )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cell - cell adhesion mediated by cadherin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glycosphingolipid biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  midbrain of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  marginal blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neural tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  neural tube  ( central canal )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neural tube of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  sharp  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( mesoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  stratification  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  oral cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of synapse structure or activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hair cell of synaptic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  positive regulation of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  hydrophilic  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  atretic  ( of )  proctodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  cloacal chamber .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cloacal chamber of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  cloacal chamber of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  left side of  ( of )  heart tube  ( axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  posterior pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  cilium or flagellum - dependent cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephros of axonemal microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  pronephros of axonemal microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glomerular visceral epithelial cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  orbit .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  male meiotic nuclear division .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  spermatogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  female sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  testis  ( spermatocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  spermatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cartilage condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neurocranium of cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  bulbous  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  atrium of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  electrical conductivity  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cephalic musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cephalic musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  atrium  ( cardiac ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  myotome of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  uncoordinated  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  slow muscle cell  ( slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  variant shape  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharynx  ( pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac muscle myosin thick filament assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fast muscle cell of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fast muscle cell of striated muscle myosin thick filament assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fast muscle cell of muscle thin filament assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  outflow tract morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( ventricular endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus  ( smooth muscle myoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( ventral aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  presumptive bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  evl of obsolete cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial to hematopoietic transition .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( blood island )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( post - vent region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( vasculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  optic choroid vascular plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  renal filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct of epithelial cell  ( epithelial cell of microvillus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  curvature  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 1 of dorsal compartment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  segmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuromast development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of neuron apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central nervous system of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  neural tube of apical junction complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased adhesivity  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular rhythm  ( of )  cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  tubulin - glycine ligase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  olfactory placode of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  olfactory placode of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory placode of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephros of axonemal dynein complex .
abnormal ( ly )  direction  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  uncoordinated  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinoid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  presumptive neural retina .
abnormal ( ly )  stratification  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  fourth ventricle  ( cerebral spinal fluid )  .
abnormal ( ly )  direction  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite of medial region  ( slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal system morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  retina  ( cranial nerve ii )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch  ( palatoquadrate arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  map kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  map kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  dorsal aorta of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  inner ear morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  camera - type eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  kidney morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( ciliated epithelial cell of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct  ( ciliated epithelial cell of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  gamma - delta t cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic stem cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  gamma - delta t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pronephric duct morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epithelial tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( ball )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  phosphatidylcholine - retinol o - acyltransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  skeletal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  collagen fibril organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  collagen metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  fin  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fin of fibrillar collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  centrum of fibrillar collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  postcranial axial skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  caudal fin of lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  anal fin of lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  dorsal fin of lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass density  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  lepidotrichium  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  post - anal tail morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  having decreased processual parts  ( of )  liver development  ( cell population proliferation )  .
abnormal ( ly )  having decreased processual parts  ( of )  swim bladder development  ( cell population proliferation )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  gall bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gall bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  extrahepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  extrahepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  yolk  ( granulocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  yolk  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( granulocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  histone methyltransferase activity  ( h4 - k20 specific )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  exit from mitosis .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  retinal neural layer of apical region .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  retinal neural layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retina of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  retina of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  stomodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage  ( chondrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage of chondrocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  parachordal cartilage of postero - lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  lateralized  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  floor plate of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  central canal of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dopamine metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  mid cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  curvature  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium  ( kupffer's vesicle of inner dynein arm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  floor plate of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  head of anterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  antero - posteriorly flattened  ( of )  head of anterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  head of anterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  cranial neural crest of antero - ventral region  ( cranial neural crest cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cranial neural crest of medial region  ( cranial neural crest cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  notched  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  trabecula communis .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  trabecula communis .
abnormal ( ly )  cleft  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  notochord of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  variant shape  ( of )  notochord of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size  ( of )  notochord of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cellular sodium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  angular vestibuloocular reflex .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral crista of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula  ( hair cell anterior macula of multivesicular body )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hair cell of sodium:potassium - exchanging atpase complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  hair cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased force  ( of )  skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to muscle stretch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  somite of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  muscle of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  musculature system .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  keratinocyte  ( whole organism )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  organizer inducing center .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  brain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  muscle of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  phosphatidylinositol - 4 , 5 - bisphosphate 5 - phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  cellular response to heat .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cellular response to epinephrine stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  renal filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( ciliated epithelial cell of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  electrical conductivity  ( of )  forebrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  pronephros of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  heart tube  ( whole organism of right side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  heart tube  ( whole organism of central region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7  ( cartilage tissue )  .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  white matter  ( astrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  cranial vault of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  growth plate cartilage chondrocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular rhythm  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  semicircular canal morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  lateral line development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  equilibrioception .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lens fiber cell fate commitment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lens epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  pigmented  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  lens of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lens of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  lens of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  nucleate quality  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pupil .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  lens epithelium  ( epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  lens epithelium  ( epithelial cell of nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  lens epithelium of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lens epithelium of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  nucleate quality  ( of )  lens epithelium of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  lens epithelium of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  lens epithelium of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  yolk of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of posterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased flexibility  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  hindbrain development .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  cell  ( post - vent region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  hemostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer of ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  optic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  optic choroid vascular plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  optic choroid vascular plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  optical quality  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endoplasmic reticulum to golgi vesicle - mediated transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  melanosome organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  collagen biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  extracellular matrix constituent secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  notochord of collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  notochord of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  cranial cartilage of fibrillar collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  cranial cartilage of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  chondrocyte of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  caudal artery  ( thrombocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of golgi cisterna .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  horizontal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  deep blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular adhesivity  ( of )  deep blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of portion of tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  atrium of portion of tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cellular response to dna damage stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased strength  ( of )  cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  brain of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  brain of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  brain of ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart primordium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  midbrain of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  neuron of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  microtubule cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  efferent axon development in posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  spinal cord of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  spinal cord of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of compact myelin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  enteric nervous system of synaptic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  enteric nervous system of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neuron of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  caudal fin of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  anal fin of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pectoral fin distal radial  ( pectoral fin distal radial )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retina of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primitive erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  collagen biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0005913 .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  chondrocyte of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  chondrocyte of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  chondrocyte of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  chondrocyte of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  chondrocyte of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0005913 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased intensity  ( of )  cellular response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  on - bipolar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  on - bipolar cell of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  membrane depolarization .
abnormal ( ly )  membrane potential  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  prominent  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  rhombomere .
abnormal ( ly )  prominent  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  hindbrain of rhombomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  trunk of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  neotenous growth  ( of )  developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  sporadic  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  dorsal aorta of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  common cardinal vein  ( blood cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  caudal vein plexus  ( blood cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  subintestinal vein of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  pectoral fin blood vessel of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  melatonin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  spleen .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  spleen .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lateral mesodermal cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intermediate mesodermal cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hemangioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  common cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  presumptive endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  caudal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( caudal artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  yolk of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased circumference  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome  ( retinal pigmented epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome  ( retinal pigmented epithelium of central region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome  ( retinal pigmented epithelium of dorsal region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome  ( retina )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome  ( optic choroid )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of cell projection  ( retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lipid biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  notochord of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  unstructured  ( of )  somite of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  inner optic circle of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  elliptic  ( of )  inner optic circle of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein glycosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  voluntary musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  head morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myotome of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  myotome of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  myotome of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  myotome of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  myoseptum  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chondrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  somite of clathrin - sculpted acetylcholine transport vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuron fate determination .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  somite of anatomical compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  voluntary musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  myotome of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( endothelial tip cell of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial tip cell  ( dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chromatin binding .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharynx  ( goblet cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharynx of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retina of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retina of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior intestine of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb of enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intestine  ( goblet cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intestine of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intestine of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  surface feature shape  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of obsolete cell  ( intestinal epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of enteroendocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  surface feature shape  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior intestine epithelium of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  enterocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  enterocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  caudal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  whole organism of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric duct of sodium:potassium - exchanging atpase complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased behavioural activity  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric duct of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otolith organ .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  collateral sprouting in absence of injury .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of collateral sprouting in absence of injury .
abnormal ( ly )  sporadic  ( of )  branching morphogenesis of a nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  branching morphogenesis of a nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  spinal cord of primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cranial nerve v .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rop motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  rop motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised proximally  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  basal plate midbrain region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  zona limitans intrathalamica .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  mid intestine epithelium of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  posterior intestine epithelium of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  enteroendocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  lymph vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of growth hormone secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  branchiomeric skeletal muscle development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  abductor hyohyoid  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  adductor operculi  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dilatator operculi  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  levator operculi  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  adductor hyohyoid  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric duct opening .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  parapineal organ .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  mo - molybdopterin cofactor biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glycine receptor clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  unlocalised  ( of )  spinal cord of glycine - gated chloride channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ryanodine - sensitive calcium - release channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  voltage - gated calcium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased intensity  ( of )  muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  protein oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fast - twitch skeletal muscle fiber contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  fast - twitch skeletal muscle fiber contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  slow - twitch skeletal muscle fiber contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  non - contractile  ( of )  trunk musculature of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  trunk musculature of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  non - contractile  ( of )  trunk musculature of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  myotome of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  myotome of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  non - contractile  ( of )  post - vent region of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  post - vent region of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  non - contractile  ( of )  post - vent region of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  skeletal muscle of longitudinal sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fast muscle cell of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neural tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  ventricular system development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary development .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  t cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  cellularity  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  thymus  ( pro - t cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pro - t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nuclear pore distribution .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  primordial germ cell of p granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primordial germ cell of p granule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  primordial germ cell of p granule  ( primordial germ cell of mitochondrion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  double - strand break repair via homologous recombination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  filopodium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intersegmental vein of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to cytokine .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  radial symmetry  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural crest formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  tubular  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus  ( motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  cranial nerve of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranial nerve of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  trunk of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  vertebra  ( vertebra )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  vertebra  ( neural spine )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  vertebra  ( hemal spine )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cranial neural crest  ( cranial neural crest cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  facial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  facial ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  facial ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neural spine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hemal spine .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  whole organism of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hypochord development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hypochord of rough endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  notochord of rough endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  altered number of  ( of )  otolith organ  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  neural tube closure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  glial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal vein of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  pronephros of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  multi - ciliated epithelial cell  ( pronephric duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  multi - ciliated epithelial cell of centriole  ( multi - ciliated epithelial cell of cytoplasm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  multi - ciliated epithelial cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  multi - ciliated epithelial cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  multi - ciliated epithelial cell of cell migration involved in kidney development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  definitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  nervous system of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial nerve iii .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial nerve x .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial nerve iv .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial nerve v .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranial nerve v .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  insufficient  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fluid flow  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral line of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  t cell differentiation in thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  myotome of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  receptor clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass density  ( of )  ventricular zone of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass density  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of neurotransmitter levels .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  oxygen metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased circumference  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  brain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of hydrogen peroxide metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neutrophil differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  macrophage differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  rostral blood island of mononuclear phagocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rostral blood island of mononuclear phagocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rostral blood island of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cranial nerve x .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  thymus  ( pro - t cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina layer formation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retinal cone cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lens of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retina of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic cup of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  solid lens vesicle of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  telomerase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  telomerase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  telomere maintenance via telomerase .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell cycle arrest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spermatogonial cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  aging .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  determination of adult lifespan .
abnormal ( ly )  having decreased processual parts  ( of )  fertilization  ( fertilization )  .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  animal organ senescence .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  chromosome breakage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  regulation of signal transduction by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  curvature  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fertility  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  male organism  ( head kidney of renal tubule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  male organism  ( head kidney of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  male organism of gut .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  male organism of gut .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  male organism of gut .
abnormal ( ly )  senescent  ( of )  male organism of gut .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  male organism of gut .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  male organism of liver .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  male organism of trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  male organism of head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  male organism of head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  senescent  ( of )  male organism of head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  male organism of renal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  male organism of intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  male organism of intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  male organism of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fertility  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  integument of chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  senescent  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  testis of telomere maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  testis of sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  testis of germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  caudal fin of chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased female fertility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased male fertility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  gut epithelium of chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased variability of size  ( of )  gut epithelium of chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  developmental process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spinal cord oligodendrocyte cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal / ventral neural tube patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  smoothened signaling pathway involved in dorsal / ventral neural tube patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  cranial nerve vii of neuronal cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of neuronal cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 7 of neuronal cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of neuronal cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fertility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly ventralized  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  striated muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  extraocular musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  brain of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  eye of ventral side .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  sensory system of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  sensory system of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  dislocated  ( of )  corneal epithelial cell  ( lens )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dislocated  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell  ( ventricular system of dorsal side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  phagolysosome assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  vesicle - mediated transport .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  colored  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  colorless  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  colored  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  integument of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  colored  ( of )  integument of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  colorless  ( of )  integument of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  intestine of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  hepatocyte of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  macrophage of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  variant shape  ( of )  macrophage of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  reflectivity  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cell proliferation involved in heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased variability of size  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( otic placode )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct of bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  1 - phosphatidylinositol - 4 - phosphate 5 - kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  muscle  ( muscle cell of sarcoplasmic reticulum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle precursor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brainstem and spinal white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  amacrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  primary motor neuron  ( primary motor neuron of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  primary motor neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  primary motor neuron of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  acetylcholine receptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk musculature of mitochondrial matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk musculature of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  trunk musculature of myofibril  ( trunk musculature of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk musculature of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk musculature of actin filament bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  u - shaped  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation involved in heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cell adhesion involved in heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fragility  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mastication .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  esophagus  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  esophagus of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pectoral fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  notochord of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioural inactive  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  perichordal connective tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  perichordal connective tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril  ( slow muscle cell of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril  ( fast muscle cell of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  motor neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  motor neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fluid flow  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  otic vesicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cerebellum of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic tectum of postero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  g1 / s transition of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  trabecula communis .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vertebra 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vertebra 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vertical myoseptum of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  myotome of myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  central nervous system of chromatin .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein kinase regulator activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  urea cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  epidermis morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  epidermis of epidermal cell  ( epidermis of epidermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  rop motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  rop motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  motor neuron of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuron of mitochondrion localization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein lipidation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  wnt protein secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  caudal fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  somatotropin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  prolactin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  induction of programmed cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  heart  ( whole organism of right side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  heart  ( whole organism of medial side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  ventricular zone of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  central nervous system of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  median fin fold of epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuron remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of synaptic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endocardium development .
abnormal ( ly )  attenuate  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  delaminated  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  caudal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  atrium  ( atrial endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  trunk of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  myocardium  ( endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  bleb assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  margin of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  margin of bleb .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  prechordal plate of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypoblast of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hindbrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  diencephalic white matter  ( postoptic commissure )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  telencephalic white matter  ( anterior commissure )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( facial nerve motor nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( motor nucleus of vagal nerve )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( cranial nerve x )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( cranial nerve vii )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( cranial nerve v )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( trigeminal motor nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  sigmoid  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  white matter  ( supraoptic tract )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mip motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  synapse maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  habenula of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  habenula of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  ventral habenular nucleus of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  delaminated  ( of )  ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  yolk  ( ball )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retrograde axonal transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lysosome localization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of jnk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dynein light intermediate chain binding .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral line of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  posterior lateral line of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line of axon terminus  ( posterior lateral line of lysosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  myotome of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  myotome of slow muscle cell  ( myotome of slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart trabecula formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  far from  ( of )  endocardium  ( myocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trabecular layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pectoral fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of calcium -  and calmodulin - dependent protein kinase complex .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  integument of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  inner ear receptor cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  anterior crista of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  morphogenesis of an epithelial sheet .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  fluid flow rate  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  disheveled  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  dorsal convergence .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  axis of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  axis of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  trunk of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of dorsal region  ( glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  fasciculation  ( of )  cranial nerve i .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  frontonasal suture morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  intersegmental lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal lymphatic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  high voltage - gated calcium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  response to external stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased intensity  ( of )  sensory perception of touch .
abnormal ( ly )  non - contractile  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  motor neuron of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  oocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  germ cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  female sterile  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  testis  ( primordial germ cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  testis of germ cell tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  oocyte stage iv .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spermatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  synchronous neurotransmitter secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  lens morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  striated muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myotome of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  myotome of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myotome of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chloride transport .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  erythrocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  erythroid progenitor cell of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  head of anterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  direction  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  ciliated epithelial cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  ciliated epithelial cell of apical cortex .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  olfactory placode of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  olfactory placode of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  spinal cord of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ciliated cell of inner dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ciliated cell of outer dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal vertebra of hemal spine .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural spine .
abnormal ( ly )  curved lateral  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  mesenchymal cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of intraciliary transport particle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  metallopeptidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  integument of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  variant shape  ( of )  integument of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  integument of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  phosphate ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fast muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  fast muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  voltage - gated sodium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuron apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  alive  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased age  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  endochondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  neural plate of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  anterior commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural tube of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  platelet formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  adherens junction assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell  ( blood vessel endothelial cell of cell - cell junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  optic primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  optic primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  blastoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lens epithelium of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  lens capsule of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  lens capsule of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neutral lipid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  monocarboxylic acid transmembrane transporter activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to starvation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to starvation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hepaticobiliary system process .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of anatomical compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of anatomical compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  dissociated from  ( of )  whole organism of cell  ( yolk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of ph .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sodium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  thymus development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  thymocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retina of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  ceratobranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  ceratohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  dna damage induced protein phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  abductor hyohyoid  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  adductor operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  adductor operculi of myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dilatator operculi of myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  levator operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  levator operculi of myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  adductor hyohyoid  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  muscle organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  proportionality to  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus  ( nucleate erythrocyte of cytoplasm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cerebellar purkinje cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  purkinje cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypophysis of vasculature  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  neurohypophysis of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  enteroendocrine cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior intestine of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  chondrocyte hypertrophy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypertrophic chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  voltage - gated channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  action potential  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  determination of bilateral symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pectoral fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  cerebellar central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  intestine  ( goblet cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( sinus venosus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  whole organism of apical - basal axis relative to substrate .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  protoneuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  signal transduction in response to dna damage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  muscle of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neutrophil activation involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  head of upper region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of main axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypophyseal fenestra .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hypophyseal fenestra .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retina vasculature development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  thigmotropism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased contractility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  steroid biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cortisol biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  motor neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned towards  ( of )  notochord of cell  ( notochord of medial - lateral axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron  ( rhombomere 4 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  endocardial cushion development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endocardial cushion development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  heart  ( endocardial cushion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  atrial cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( insulin secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( glucagon secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( somatostatin secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud  ( insulin secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud  ( somatostatin secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 1 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 2 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 3 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  positive regulation of transcription ,  dna - templated .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  positive regulation of transcription ,  dna - templated .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  locus coeruleus of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  acetylcholine receptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  physiological state  ( of )  acetylcholine receptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  fast - twitch skeletal muscle fiber contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  behavioral response to nicotine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  membrane repolarization .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  peripheral nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( dorsal root ganglion of neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  common cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  odontogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  odontogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  striated muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  striated muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  somite  ( muscle precursor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  segmental plate of anterior region  ( adaxial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral girdle .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  tooth placode .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fin fold pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( midbrain hindbrain boundary )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( optic tectum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular adhesivity  ( of )  hindbrain of cell  ( hindbrain of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  macula .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  lateral longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular adhesivity  ( of )  post - vent region of cell  ( post - vent region of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  locus ceruleus development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  parasympathetic nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  locus coeruleus .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pars intermedia .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epibranchial placode .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  osteoblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retina of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  somite of muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  somite of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  opercle of postero - ventral margin .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  inner limiting membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  inner limiting membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  iris .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of photoreceptor cell  ( ciliary marginal zone )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  muller cell of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  negative regulation of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 2 of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  vertebral artery .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  vasculature  ( intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  maxilla  ( maxilla )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  endochondral bone .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  vap motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal muscle myosin thick filament assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart rudiment of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  opercle  ( branchiostegal ray 3 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fan - shaped  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cranium of bone tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal aorta morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased viscosity  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood of circulating cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of circulating cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  lateral floor plate of kolmer - agduhr neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  skeletal muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  cephalic musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  heme biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  monocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  eye pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of anterior side  ( retinal pigmented epithelium of posterior side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  opercle  ( branchiostegal ray )  .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly ventralized  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  tapered  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hindbrain structural organization .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  choroid plexus fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  otic vesicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  thymus  ( lymphocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  thymus  ( lymphocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  thymus of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  digestive system process .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior intestine of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  inner ear auditory receptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  otic placode formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  inner ear development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  muscle cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  bulbous  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental artery of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  foregut morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mesoderm formation .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly anterioralized  ( of )  presumptive neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  prominent  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trunk of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  post - vent region of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  presumptive mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neurogenic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  heart tube  ( heart tube )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  iron ion transport .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  habenular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  habenular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  discontinuous  ( of )  habenular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  habenular commissure of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  undivided  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  undivided  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  undivided  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lepidotrichium of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  notochord of posterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retina of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic tectum of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventrolateral optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  ventrolateral optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  overlap with  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  ceratobranchial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  ceratobranchial 2 cartilage  ( ceratobranchial 2 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage  ( ceratobranchial 1 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  hypobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  notched  ( of )  hypobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  epiphysis  ( photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  anterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  anterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  whole organism of snare complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lymphatic endothelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  neuromast of somatic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  hyomandibula .
abnormal ( ly )  cylindrical  ( of )  hyomandibula .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  trabecula cranii  ( neurocranium of posterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trabecula cranii of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  spinal cord oligodendrocyte cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord oligodendrocyte cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  oligodendrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  glial cell of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  floor plate of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of left side  ( paraxial mesoderm of right side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  extrahepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic retina morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  hyaloid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  hyaloid vein .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior axial hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  ventral mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  protein autophosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  gut of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  osteoclast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  curved lateral  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding into  ( of )  eye  ( diencephalon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  somite  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  opercular flap of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  caudal fin skeleton of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  neural arch of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 7 skeleton of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell of myosin filament )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( cardiac muscle cell of myosin filament )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of intercalated disc .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  melanocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  head of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  head of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral larval melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  low saturation  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  spinal cord of ependymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of left side  ( rhombomere 3 of right side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord neural rod of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart looping .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral line of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  posterior lateral line of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  solid lens vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  heart primordium of presumptive endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ventricular endocardium of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  interhyal cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  interhyal cartilage  ( hyosymplectic cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rhombomere 5 development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rhombomere 6 development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  semicircular canal formation .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of rhombomere boundary formation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of rhombomere boundary formation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 7 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  decussate  ( of )  hindbrain commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural crest hindbrain of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  xanthophore differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of pterinosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of pterinosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trunk of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trunk of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  colorless  ( of )  trunk of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  enteric nervous system of neuron neural crest derived .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive enteric nervous system of neuron neural crest derived .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  delaminated  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve vi .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve x .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve ix .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  adrenal gland development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pronephros morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  interrenal primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  coelom .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  physical quality of a process  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal neural layer of muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  anterior macula  ( hair cell anterior macula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic pattern specification .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin fold of scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin fold of endochondral bone .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  unidimensional cell growth .
abnormal ( ly )  deviation  ( of )  hypoblast of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  hypoblast of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  anterior cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  whole organism of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  trunk of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  mid cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  ectodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deviation  ( of )  ectodermal cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart primordium of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart primordium of cardiac muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  proctodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  common cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  segmental plate of anterior region  ( adaxial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  macula  ( macula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  tela chorioidea .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  tela chorioidea .
abnormal ( ly )  fragility  ( of )  tela chorioidea of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  tela chorioidea of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  lapillus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  caudal fin of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  roof plate spinal cord region of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pillar of the anterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  mesothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mesothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  muller cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  peramorphic growth  ( of )  notochord development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased curvature  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  liver  ( whole organism of left - right axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  pancreas  ( whole organism of left - right axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cloacal chamber .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  pronephric duct opening .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  chordo neural hinge .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vagal lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rostrocaudal neural tube patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  negative regulation of wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  generation of neurons .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  forebrain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  spinal cord of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  trigeminal neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly posterioralized  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  trigeminal placode of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hindbrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior - most region  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glucose metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  determination of pancreatic left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  determination of liver left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( telencephalon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of brain - derived neurotrophic factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  pigment accumulation .
abnormal ( ly )  low saturation  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory placode of olfactory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton  ( pharyngeal arch cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  head of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  trunk of larval melanophore stripe  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  curved caudal  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral line of neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral thalamus of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  preoptic area of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  post - vent region of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  surface feature shape  ( of )  somite border of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  anterior commissure of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding into  ( of )  vap motor neuron of axon  ( horizontal myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon  ( ventral zone olfactory bulb )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon  ( anteromedial  zone olfactory bulb )  .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of axon  ( hindbrain of axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( parachordal vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk vasculature  ( parachordal vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  vap motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  hindbrain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  hindbrain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  tail bud of paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  eye  ( brain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  fourth ventricle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  midbrain of fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  midbrain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin bud of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pectoral fin bud of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hair cell posterior macula of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hair cell posterior macula of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  presumptive neural retina of adherens junction  ( presumptive retinal pigmented epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  whole organism of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  axial mesoderm of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pillar of the semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hindbrain interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  anterior neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  umbonate  ( of )  hindbrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  t - shaped  ( of )  posterior neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  cell of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  mauthner neuron  ( rhombomere of posterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  posterior lateral line development .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  heterochronic  ( of )  axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  olfactory placode development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle arrest .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  forebrain of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primary olfactory fiber layer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  glomerular layer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  opercular lateral line of nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ventral anterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  atrial myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  camera - type eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  brain of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  eye of anterior region  ( eye of anterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  forebrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  immature eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  immature eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuronal stem cell population maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of ventricular zone  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular potency  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endoderm formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  anterior axial hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  stratification  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  presumptive dorsal mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  head of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  trunk of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  medial floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  facial placode .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  glossopharyngeal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  mandibular neural crest  ( hyoid neural crest )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hatching gland cell .
abnormal ( ly )  colored  ( of )  head of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  colored  ( of )  trunk of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  xanthophore of pterinosome .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  mitotic s phase .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  central nervous system  ( oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( radial glial cell of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of dorsal region  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of ventral region  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of grey matter  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of white matter  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  opacity  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of axonal growth cone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neurectodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  radial glial cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage  ( ethmoid cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  lip .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  3' - utr - mediated mrna stabilization .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dermomyotome .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  immunoglobulin heavy chain v - d - j recombination .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  head kidney of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  head kidney of b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( muller cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic vesicle morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  adenohypophysis development .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  sigmoid  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased cellular motility  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  postcranial axial skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endoderm of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  oblong  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  diencephalon of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  sharpness  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  nucleus of the tract of the postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventral rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cornea  ( corneal endothelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal oblique extraocular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventral oblique extraocular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  corneal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  forebrain neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  serotonin metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  defense response to fungus .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retinal rod cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  oncogene - induced cell senescence .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  central nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal neural layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  telencephalon of ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  eye  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  liver of hepatocellular carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  malignant  ( of )  peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  peripheral nervous system of neurofibrosarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  cranial nerve i .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vagal lobe of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  glomerular layer .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  paraventricular organ of neurotransmitter metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  posterior intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( dorsal root ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( enteric nervous system of neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pharyngeal arch cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  trunk of sarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  optic nerve head .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic nerve head of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  supraoptic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  fasciculation  ( of )  supraoptic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior swim bladder bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  anterior swim bladder bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neutrophil of phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  positive regulation of erk1 and erk2 cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  positive regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hypothalamus of posterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interhyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  dislocated  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( yolk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  brain of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  somite 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  somite 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly anterioralized  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  everted  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pronephros of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  somite 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  somite 11 of dorso - medial margin  ( somite 11 of dorso - medial margin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  somite 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  somite 14 of dorso - medial margin  ( somite 14 of dorso - medial margin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  somite 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  somite 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  somite 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  somite 12 of dorso - medial margin  ( somite 12 of dorso - medial margin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  somite 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  somite 15 of dorso - medial margin  ( somite 15 of dorso - medial margin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  somite 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  somite 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  somite 13 of dorso - medial margin  ( somite 13 of dorso - medial margin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  multiple  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  head of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  trunk of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trunk of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  folded  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  post - vent region of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  post - vent region of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  notochord posterior region  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  gall bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  extra or missing processual parts  ( of )  forebrain neuron development  ( neuron fate specification )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  medial longitudinal catecholaminergic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cellular pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  heart of anatomical compartment boundary  ( heart )  .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blood vessel endothelium of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus  ( pronephric glomerulus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  regulation of bone remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  locus coeruleus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  oral epithelium  ( taste bud )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  alar plate midbrain region .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  chondrocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  midbrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  midbrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  prominent  ( of )  midbrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic medial fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mesenchymal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  median fin fold of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  dorsal actinotrichium  ( dorsal fin fold of mesenchymal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  dorsal fin fold of microfibril .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  dorsal fin fold of dermis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  dorsal fin fold of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  mesenchyme median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  trunk of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  trunk of dermis .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  post - vent region of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  dermis  ( epidermis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  dermis of fibrillar collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dermis of fibrillar collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endocardium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pineal gland development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreas of endocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  somite of medial side  ( somite of medial side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  post - vent region of somite  ( post - vent region of somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  melanocyte  ( neural tube of ventral surface )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary initiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  optic nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct  ( epithelial cell of brush border )  .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pronephric duct of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  pronephric duct of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  caudal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  optic tectum of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  refractile  ( of )  optic tectum of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trochlear motor nucleus  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  commissura cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  oculomotor nucleus  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  ipsilateral to  ( of )  optic chiasm of cranial nerve ii  ( optic chiasm of cranial nerve ii )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve iv .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ansulate commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  forebrain midbrain boundary  ( hindbrain commissure )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric tubule of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  gut epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  regulation of cellular response to stress .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  spinal cord of kolmer - agduhr neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  internal gill bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  internal gill bud .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  neurocranium  ( neurocranial trabecula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  mandibular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myotome of striated muscle myosin thick filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of striated muscle myosin thick filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  slow muscle cell of striated muscle myosin thick filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of striated muscle myosin thick filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intracellularly atp - gated chloride channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  exocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  gut epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  enterocyte of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  prechordal plate formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  central nervous system of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  anterior - posterior polarity  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  prechordal plate of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  prechordal plate of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  optic stalk  ( optic stalk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  axial hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  axial hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  regulation of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ectodermal cell fate commitment .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  retina of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  cloacal chamber .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  caudal fin  ( blood cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  edge shape  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  ventral fin fold of postero - ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  overlap with  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( meckel's cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( ceratobranchial 1 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ceratobranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  retina of cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  retina of s phase .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  behavioral fear response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dopamine biosynthetic process from tyrosine .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  multicellular organismal response to stress .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mrna binding .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  heart primordium of left side  ( heart primordium of right side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  optic nerve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  striated muscle cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  thyroid - stimulating hormone - secreting cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  somite  ( muscle pioneer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  third ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical quality of a process  ( of )  gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural tube patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal tuberculum of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  medial longitudinal catecholaminergic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  neuroendocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retina of photopic photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  smooth muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  tunica interna swim bladder of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  visceral peritoneum .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  adenohypophysis development .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  oblong  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral crista .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  mandibular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  cranial nerve viii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cranial nerve viii .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  macula .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of posterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neurohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  adenohypophysis of secretory granule .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  peptide hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somatotropin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  prolactin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  dna methylation on cytosine .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of gut endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pigment accumulation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of dendrite  ( retinal inner nuclear layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of dendrite  ( retinal inner plexiform layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of dendrite  ( retinal outer plexiform layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of neuron projection  ( optic tectum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of dendrite guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of neuron projection guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hypothalamus cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of cell proliferation involved in tissue homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hypothalamus of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hypothalamus of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  self - renewal  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  eye of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  eye of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  branchial muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  medial rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  oral cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  iris .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  corneal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  anterior segment eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  anterior segment eye  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  anterior segment eye of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  ocular blood vessel  ( hyaloid vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  heart valve .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  myotome of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  motor neuron of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epithalamus development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell migration in diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( retinal rod cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  parapineal organ of obsolete cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  melanocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( melanoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  swim bladder inflation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  whole organism of axis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of mesenchyme condensation cell  ( pharyngeal arch of mesenchyme condensation cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  melanin biosynthetic process from tyrosine .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  unpigmented  ( of )  melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic growth  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rhombomere morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  ossification involved in bone maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head kidney  ( hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head kidney  ( hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell of hemoglobin complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell  ( ventral wall of dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pro - t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  zinc ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  swimming  ( swimming behavior )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic bud  ( pancreatic epsilon cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  stomodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pectoral girdle .
abnormal ( ly )  curled  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  dissociated from  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of bicellular tight junction  ( cardiac muscle cell of bicellular tight junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  amacrine cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( amacrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  fasciculation  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell  ( retinal ganglion cell of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  heart of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  heart of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  bone tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetry  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct  ( pronephric duct of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  uncoordinated  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephros morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( pronephric glomerulus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  split bilaterally  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  deviation  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  activation of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart rudiment formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart rudiment formation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of embryonic morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart rudiment formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  temporally extended  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  centrum  ( centrum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  vertebral column of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( brain of ventral region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventricular system of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intestine of peristalsis .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome localization .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of cell  ( retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  basement membrane assembly involved in embryonic body morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  whole organism of collagen type iv trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial blood vessel of pericyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( hepatocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thigmotropism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  thigmotropism .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lymphoid lineage cell migration into thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of centriole .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lymphoid lineage cell migration into thymus involved in thymus epithelium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial suture morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  alignment  ( of )  pectoral girdle  ( pectoral fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  parietal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  premaxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dermatocranium of ossification involved in bone remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  dermatocranium of bone resorption .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  preopercular sensory canal .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  inter - frontal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cranial vault of bone resorption .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cone photoresponse recovery .
abnormal ( ly )  photosensitive  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of detection of light stimulus involved in visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myotube cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk musculature of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk musculature of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  muscle of myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of actin filament bundle organization .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium  ( cell of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( caudal vein plexus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  caudal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axial vasculature of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cranial vasculature  ( central artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial vasculature of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  central artery of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  post - vent vasculature of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  fin of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  temporally extended  ( of )  mitotic s phase .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  microglial cell activation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  mitochondrial electron transport ,  ubiquinol to cytochrome c .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  muscle of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  muscle of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chemical synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  cap motoneuron of motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  mauthner neuron of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  temporal distribution quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  microglia development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mrna splicing ,  via spliceosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  inner ear receptor cell stereocilium organization .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  auditory receptor cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( leukocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  leukocyte  ( heart of anatomical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  slow muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otic vesicle of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  otic vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of motile cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  whole organism of axis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  determination of intestine left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dermal bone of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased angle to  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oxidative dna demethylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  polychromatophilic erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  erythroid progenitor cell  ( intermediate cell mass of mesoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk of anterior region  ( thoracic duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  tooth 4v of odontogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  tooth 3v .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  notochord cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  somite development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm of cell fate commitment .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  floor plate spinal cord region .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  muscle  ( axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  spinal cord of dorsal side .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  olfactory epithelium  ( olfactory epithelium of microvillous olfactory receptor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of microvillous olfactory receptor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  pectoral girdle .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of basolateral plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cristae formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  otic placode formation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  otolith development .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neural plate of primary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  lapillus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  auditory epithelial support cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  eye of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  angioblast cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  efflux transmembrane transporter activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin skeleton of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pectoral fin of cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral fin of scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral fin actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  macula utricle  ( immature hair cell anterior macula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  macula utricle  ( tether cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  macula utricle  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( auditory epithelial support cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( tether cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  macula  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior crista  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axial mesoderm formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  anatomical structure of dorso - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  angioblast cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  vein .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk of interstitial matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  interrenal primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  interrenal primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  interrenal primordium of left side  ( interrenal primordium of right side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interrenal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interrenal  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  artery .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vein .
abnormal ( ly )  centered  ( of )  interrenal primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  lacking processual parts  ( of )  adrenal gland development  ( cell migration )  .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of right side  ( pronephric glomerulus of left side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  interrenal  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic pectoral fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  axial mesoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  somite 1  ( somite 2 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  notochord of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  rhombomere 5  ( somite 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pectoral fin cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pharyngeal pouch 3 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pharyngeal pouch 4 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pectoral fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head of notochord  ( notochord of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pectoral fin field .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  cranium of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  caudal fin musculature of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  caudal fin of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  caudal fin of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  anterior macula of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  splayed  ( of )  anterior macula of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( kupffer's vesicle of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct  ( pronephric duct of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  stratified  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of invadopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of basal lamina .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium  ( protoneuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( immature macula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  otic vesicle of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  jaw flap of breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  jaw row breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  jaw row breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optokinetic behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  mauthner neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  neuron of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of smooth muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  tonic smooth muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  gastro - intestinal system smooth muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of intestinal epithelial structure maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestine of enteric musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of focal adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of basal lamina .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral  ( of )  interrenal primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mesoderm migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  actin polymerization or depolymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitochondrial calcium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  oriented  ( of )  mesodermal cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  renal water transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic heart tube left / right pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephros morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  central canal  ( ependymal cell of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric tubule  ( pronephric tubule of microvillus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  pronephric tubule of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric tubule of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  pronephric tubule of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric tubule of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pronephric tubule of apical part of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric podocyte  ( pronephric podocyte of slit diaphragm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of apical part of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephric capsular space .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ependymal cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  ependymal cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  erythrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endoderm of cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  presumptive endoderm of cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  blood cell  ( trunk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  mesodermal cell  ( margin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  retinal cone cell of chemical synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cone cell pedicle  ( retinal cone cell of ribbon synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon microtubule bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of inner ear receptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  otic vesicle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  hindbrain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  fourth ventricle  ( fourth ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of establishment of mitotic spindle orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of establishment of mitotic spindle orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of establishment of mitotic spindle orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of establishment of mitotic spindle orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  eye of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  eye of intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  forebrain dorsal / ventral pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  floor plate development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of anterior region  ( primary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  eye of lens .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  forebrain of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  somite  ( horizontal myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin  ( primary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk of posterior region  ( primary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  transformed to  ( of )  adenohypophyseal placode  ( lens )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  medial floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  somite of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  peripheral neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus  ( abducens motor nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of rhombomere boundary formation .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of rhombomere boundary formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cerebellum development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  somite development .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( midbrain hindbrain boundary )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( cerebellum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  vap motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral larval melanophore stripe of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( erythroid lineage cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  hindbrain of neural keel formation .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of neural keel formation .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of neural keel formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oligodendrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic cleavage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of nodal signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  stomodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage  ( meckel's cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  interhyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  interhyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hyohyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterior commissure morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  supraoptic tract of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorso - rostral cluster of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of collateral sprouting in absence of injury .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hindbrain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hindbrain of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of anterior region  ( spinal cord interneuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of anterior region  ( motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intermandibularis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  dorso - rostral cluster of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  locomotor rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  opsin transport .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  cranial nerve of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  schwann cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon  ( myelinating schwann cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  immature schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  motor neuron of axon  ( myelinating schwann cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  motor neuron of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal development .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  hyomandibula .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 1 of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 2 of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  facial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  neurogenic placode of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral anterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  middle lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  neurogenic field of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  vagal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  vagal ganglion  ( vagal ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome localization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  lapillus .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  lapillus  ( sagitta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  angioblast cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  amacrine cell of dendrite extension .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  tonic skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glomerular filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lens of collagen fibril organization .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  negative regulation of oxidative stress - induced intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pronephros of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  multi - ciliated epithelial cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  telomere maintenance via telomerase .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  whole organism of chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of chemical synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cone cell pedicle .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  diencephalon of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  fourth ventricle of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of establishment of mitotic spindle orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of establishment of mitotic spindle orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  mesoderm of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell migration to the midline involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  supraoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterior commissure of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell migration involved in somitogenic axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  tail bud of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rhombomere boundary formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of rhombomere boundary formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of rhombomere boundary formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fourth ventricle development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of neural keel formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of neural keel formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of neural keel formation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  interrenal gland .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  interrenal gland of steroid biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  interrenal primordium of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  neurocranium of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myotome development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synapse organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cellular response to mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  diencephalic nucleus of axon  ( hindbrain of lateral region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  diencephalic nucleus of axon  ( hindbrain of medial region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  hypocretin - secreting neuron of axon  ( hindbrain of medial region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of ventro - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  lateral crista .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( otic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral girdle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of axon  ( hindbrain of medial region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  trunk of motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  cell  ( tail bud of dorsal side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal side .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( head )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( post - vent region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  nadh oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  trunk of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intestine of epithelial tube morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of anatomical space .
abnormal ( ly )  trabecular  ( of )  intestine of anatomical space .
abnormal ( ly )  split bilaterally  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  parapineal organ of determination of left / right asymmetry in nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  open  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus  ( serotonin secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  hypothalamus of mitotic s phase .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vh ionocyte of regulation of ph .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  olfactory bulb glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  olfactory bulb glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  cell  ( neural tube )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  olfactory nerve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial nerve i .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cranial nerve i of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  olfactory bulb glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell - cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  dorsal fin fold of posterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  split medially  ( of )  dorsal fin fold of posterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  hindbrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell  ( fourth ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hindbrain of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  brain vasculature of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic tectum of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( optic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ventral spinal cord interneuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord oligodendrocyte cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( spinal cord interneuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( kolmer - agduhr neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( swim bladder )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  antero - posteriorly flattened  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5  ( somite 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  elliptic  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  locus coeruleus  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of protein localization to plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular rhythm  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased coordination  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  episodic  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  optic tectum of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular rhythm  ( of )  optic tectum of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of regulation of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cloaca .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic digestive tract morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endoderm of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endoderm of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endoderm of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  endodermal cell of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endodermal cell of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cell migration to the midline involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell migration to the midline involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart rudiment of cardioblast anterior - lateral migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  presumptive endocardium of bmp signaling pathway involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  transient  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  midbrain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  head of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  trunk of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retroarticular .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of neuron remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( retinal ganglion cell of presynaptic active zone )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of collateral sprouting in absence of injury .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of collateral sprouting in absence of injury .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  heart  ( ventricular epicardium of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  proepicardial cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  telencephalon  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  spotted  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  desaturated yellow  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  head of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk of ventro - lateral region  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk of dermis  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk of dermis  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  trunk of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trunk of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  spotted  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  anal fin  ( melanophore stripe )  .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  anal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  low saturation  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  spotted  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  area density  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hindbrain of anterior / posterior pattern specification .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hindbrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hindbrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hindbrain of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  floor plate spinal cord region of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  floor plate spinal cord region of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  filopodium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of blood vessel remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of endothelial cell  ( endothelial cell of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  subintestinal vein  ( angiogenic sprout )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trunk of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cellular calcium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fragility  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trigeminal sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trigeminal sensory neuron of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lipid transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  liver of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gall bladder of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestine of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  motor nucleus of vagal nerve of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  somite 4 of somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  vertebra 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  intestine  ( intestinal villus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  intestine  ( columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  hyaloid vessel of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hyaloid vessel of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( radial glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  split medially  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cell of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  cell of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  macula utricle .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  lateral crista primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  posterior crista primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  anterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  thoracic duct of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  postoptic commissure of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  forebrain of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  anterior commissure of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  broad  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  broad  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  rhombomere 3  ( rhombomere 5 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  endoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  endoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endoderm of convergent extension .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cellular senescence .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  autophagosome maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  cell of autophagosome  ( cell of perinuclear region of cytoplasm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  cell of autolysosome  ( cell of perinuclear region of cytoplasm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  postoptic commissure of astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  forebrain of astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  anterior commissure of astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin  ( dorsal root ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1  ( chondrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hindbrain of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( ventricular zone of radial glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( nerve of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( motor neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  trunk of nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( ventricular zone of radial glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  neural tube  ( radial glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  neural tube of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  forebrain ventricle  ( astrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cosa .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  veld of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  radial glial cell  ( radial glial cell of aster )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of nucleus  ( kupffer's vesicle of apical plasma membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliary basal body  ( kupffer's vesicle of apical plasma membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  ectoderm of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  ectoderm of cell  ( ectoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  floor plate of establishment of planar polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  notochord of cell  ( notochord )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cell of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  turning behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  exploration behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  locomotory exploration behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  nerve of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  somite of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  basal communicating artery  ( primordial midbrain channel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  midbrain of posterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  optic tectum of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of cell proliferation in midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of regulation of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  postoptic commissure  ( astrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  anterior commissure  ( astrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  central nervous system morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  retina of neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( pharyngeal arch cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1  ( pharyngeal arch 2 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral line nerve of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  neurocranium  ( neurocranial trabecula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell projection organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pseudopodium organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal convergence .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cell - cell adhesion involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  del .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  del  ( evl )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  whole organism of axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blastoderm of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil migration .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  enteric nervous system of neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  enteric nervous system of neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  enteric nervous system of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endothelial cell of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial vasculature of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of slit diaphragm .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  eye of pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  dorsal aorta  ( caudal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of endothelial cell apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cytokinesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cortical granule exocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  blastomere  ( blastomere of nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  oocyte of secretory granule  ( oocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  oocyte stage iii  ( oocyte stage iii of cortical granule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  oocyte stage iii of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  unfertilized egg of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  elevation  ( of )  unfertilized egg of egg chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  elevation  ( of )  fertilized egg of egg chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( primary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  jnk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  convergent extension involved in neural plate elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mediolateral intercalation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hypoblast of convergent extension .
abnormal ( ly )  folded  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  post - vent region of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  memory .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vein  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  intersegmental vein of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intersegmental vein of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intersegmental vein of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vein of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  germ cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  establishment of mitotic spindle orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  mesoderm of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural plate of establishment of mitotic spindle orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell  ( multi - ciliated epithelial cell of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  neural tube  ( neural tube of axoneme )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  xanthophore differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of basal side  ( brain of epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of actin filament  ( midbrain hindbrain boundary of apical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retina of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  optic fissure of anatomical margin  ( optic fissure of anatomical margin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  exonucleolytic trimming to generate mature 3' - end of 5 .8s rrna from tricistronic rrna transcript  ( ssu - rrna ,  5 .8s rrna ,  lsu - rrna )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of large ribosomal subunit .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cytosolic ribosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  forebrain ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  uninflated  ( of )  posterior chamber swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  gut  ( enteric neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  optic tectum  ( optic tectum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased strength  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  slow muscle cell of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  fast muscle cell of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  fast muscle cell of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vesicle localization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  head of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  trunk of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased perimeter  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pigment cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  neuron of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  renal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 1  ( somite 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kidney development .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor inner segment  ( retinal cone cell of cytoplasmic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal cone cell of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  retinal cone cell of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of lysosome organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of endosomal transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of maintenance of golgi location .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ribosomal protein s6 kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  protein kinase b signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventral spinal cord development .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  spinal cord of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neural tube of smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric duct of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ventral mesoderm of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  optic cup of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  heart formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pharynx of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intestine  ( enteroendocrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intestine of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  atp biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myocardium of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myocardium of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  medial rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  adductor mandibulae .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  adductor mandibulae of regulation of myofibril size .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  adductor mandibulae of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  interhyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  interhyoideus of regulation of myofibril size .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  interhyoideus of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hindbrain of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  trunk of pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( retina of ventral region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( hyosymplectic cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pineal complex of circadian regulation of gene expression .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  iridophore differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  eye  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( melanophore stripe )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( melanophore stripe )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk of dermis  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  anal fin  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  melanocyte of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  inner ear receptor cell stereocilium organization .
abnormal ( ly )  direction  ( of )  hair cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  direction  ( of )  hypoblast of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hypoblast of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  liver of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( retinal ganglion cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cranial nerve ii  ( retinal ganglion cell of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum  ( retinal ganglion cell of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  altered number of  ( of )  head  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  floor plate of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial nerve iii .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial nerve iv .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  dorsal thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  inflated  ( of )  pericardial cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  anterior lateral line development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ectodermal placode development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( facial ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( facial placode )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( glossopharyngeal ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( vagal ganglion 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( vagal ganglion 2 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( vagal ganglion 3 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( vagal ganglion 4 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  facial placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  facial placode of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  glossopharyngeal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  glossopharyngeal placode of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  vagal placode 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  vagal placode 1 of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  vagal placode 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  vagal placode 2 of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  vagal placode 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  vagal placode 3 of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  vagal placode 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  vagal placode 4 of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  vagal placode 4 of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  anterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart primordium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of pharyngeal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin  ( caudal fin of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell proliferation involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( portion of tissue )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  melanocyte of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  oligodendrocyte  ( oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pineal complex of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  parapineal organ of epithalamus development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  parapineal organ of determination of left / right asymmetry in diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  in contact with  ( of )  pronephric duct  ( pronephric duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  habenula of cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  habenula of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  habenula of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  tooth mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  opercle of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  tooth 4v of tooth mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  tooth 4v of tooth mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dental epithelium  ( tooth placode )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myelination in peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  broadly articulated with  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell  ( cranial neural crest cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broadly articulated with  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell  ( trunk neural crest cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell of contact inhibition .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( cardiac muscle cell of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  spontaneous  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  liver of adenoma .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  spontaneous  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intestine of adenoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intestine of adenomatous polyp .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( myelinating schwann cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelination in peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  del .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  presumptive neural retina .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  anal fin  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cholesterol homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  notochord of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  nodal signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  evl of secondary lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  evl of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  blastoderm  ( yolk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  atrium  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( ventricular system )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  brain of primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( primary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  spinal cord of primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  head of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  trunk of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein  ( lymphangiogenic sprout )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  cranial vasculature of lymphatic system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intestine of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lymph vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  facial lymphatic vessel of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lymph vessel endothelium of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord of lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lipoprotein biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  map kinase kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal aorta development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oligodendrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  hindbrain of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( spinal cord of oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  dorsal to  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte  ( dorsal longitudinal fasciculus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  far from  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte  ( dorsal longitudinal fasciculus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal fasciculus of axon ensheathment in central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of early endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of anterograde axonal transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of growth cone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of growth cone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of retrograde transport ,  endosome to plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  renal system process .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  lens  ( retina )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular density  ( of )  pronephric duct of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  cloaca .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural crest cell migration involved in autonomic nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina of exit from mitosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  vagal neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  slow muscle cell  ( vertical myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic camera - type eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  drooping  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  lepidotrichium segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lepidotrichium segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  lepidotrichium segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  blood of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  whole organism of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  whole organism of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( nucleate erythrocyte of autophagosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( nucleate erythrocyte of autolysosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  muscle  ( muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  skeletal muscle of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endocardial cushion  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  liver of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  inner ear of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hepatocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hepatocyte of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric tubule of ciliary basal body organization .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric tubule of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  pronephric tubule of ciliary basal body  ( pronephric tubule of apical plasma membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage  ( pharyngeal arch cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cleavage in its2 between 5 .8s rrna and lsu - rrna of tricistronic rrna transcript  ( ssu - rrna ,  5 .8s rrna ,  lsu - rrna )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  liver of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  liver of poly ( a )  +  mrna export from nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pancreas of poly ( a )  +  mrna export from nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retina of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retina of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina of poly ( a )  +  mrna export from nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  intestine of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intestine of poly ( a )  +  mrna export from nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus of posterior side  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  atrial cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  atrioventricular ring .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( cardiac ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  heart vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  yolk of posterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of cell proliferation in hindbrain ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  viable  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mrna processing .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  endothelial cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  negative regulation of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell migration involved in heart formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  common cardinal vein of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  fin musculature of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  trunk musculature of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  hypaxial myotome region of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hypaxial myotome region of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( horizontal myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  trunk of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  trunk of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decussate  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein localization to synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  synaptic vesicle recycling via endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of terminal bouton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of terminal bouton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  phosphate ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  ball of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  severe intensity  ( of )  notochord of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  pectoral fin cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  integument of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  hemal arch  ( hemal arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cranium of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  neural arch  ( neural arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  vertebra of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  vertebra of bone resorption .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  vertebra of osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of perichondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of bone tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mineralized  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrion  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( intersegmental vessel of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of dorsal region  ( endothelial cell of cell junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  dissociated from  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial tip cell  ( intersegmental vessel of vascular sprouts )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephros of cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  paralysed  ( of )  pronephros of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased coordination  ( of )  pronephros of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( ventral fin fold )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cloaca .
abnormal ( ly )  hydrocephalic  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus  ( rhombomere 4 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( ventricular zone of radial glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  spinal cord of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of actin filament  ( midbrain hindbrain boundary of basal region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mitochondrion organization .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  myelination of posterior lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myelination of posterior lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  heart  ( trabecular layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  myocardium of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  myocardium of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  growth quality of occurrent  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus formation .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventral spinal cord interneuron specification .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( cia )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus  ( abducens motor nucleus of motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hindbrain interneuron of neuron fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  prolactin secreting cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  adenohypophysis  ( follicle stimulating hormone secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  adenohypophysis  ( prolactin secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  adenohypophysis  ( adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  adenohypophysis of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  adenohypophysis of corticotropin hormone secreting cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  rostral pars anterior of prolactin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  adipose tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  levator arcus palatini .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  levator arcus palatini .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  adductor operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  adductor operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  dilatator operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  dilatator operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  adductor hyohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  adductor hyohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  adductor mandibulae .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  adductor mandibulae .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  interhyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  interhyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hyohyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil migration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sodium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myosin filament organization .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  unstructured  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  muscle of striated muscle thin filament  ( muscle of myosin filament )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  muscle of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  magnesium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement ,  spinal reflex action .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  interneuromast cell of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  interneuromast cell of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  interneuromast cell of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dna methylation on cytosine within a cg sequence .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lipid homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument of keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument of mucus secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spotted  ( of )  caudal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  anal fin  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spotted  ( of )  anal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  anal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anal fin of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  disheveled  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  posterior crista of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior crista of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( radial glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  opercle of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  branchiostegal ray of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ceratohyal bone of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  quadrate of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hyomandibula of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  vertebra of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cranial vault of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of stomach left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  transcriptional activation by promoter - enhancer looping .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pectoral fin bud of embryonic pectoral fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  sympathetic nervous system  ( sympathetic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  diencephalon of cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  diencephalon of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  cell  ( forebrain ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  gabaergic neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  diencephalon of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  forebrain  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  forebrain  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  forebrain  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  forebrain  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  forebrain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  midbrain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased depth  ( of )  pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventral telencephalon of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mesenchyme pectoral fin of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central nervous system of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  integument of macrophage  ( macrophage of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hemal arch of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  head of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  macrophage  ( macrophage of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  saccule of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle of myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pectoral fin bud )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of ncc ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  rib .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  basipterygium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pelvic fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fluid flow  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  paralysed  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  striated muscle cell  ( striated muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  striated muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  striated muscle cell of z disc  ( striated muscle cell of z disc )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  striated muscle cell of myofilament .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  striated muscle cell of myofilament  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( somite border )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte of cellular pigment accumulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte of cellular response to light intensity .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retinal cone cell  ( retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  far from  ( of )  eye  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  pectoral fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  liver of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  trunk of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ  ( ciliated olfactory receptor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  thoracic duct  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex i .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  kidney of cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  precaudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  caudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  whole organism of medial - lateral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  angle  ( of )  vertebra  ( vertebra )  .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal aorta  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  thymus  ( t cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of striated muscle myosin thick filament .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of intercalated disc .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin  ( melanophore stripe )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  anal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  confluent with  ( of )  melanocyte  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to auditory stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  muscle of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  muscle cell of mitochondrial intermembrane space .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  muscle cell of myofibril  ( muscle cell of muscle tendon junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  muscle cell of myofibril  ( muscle cell of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle cell of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  renal glomerulus of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  renal glomerulus of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  thoracic duct  ( lymphatic system of endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk of posterior region  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  thyroxine 5 - deiodinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain of lateral region  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  hindbrain of exit from mitosis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  hindbrain of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  facial lymphatic vessel of lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cranial lymph vessel of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  phototaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon  ( posterior lateral line nerve of mitochondrion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin of axon  ( neuron of mitochondrion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mobility  ( of )  neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otolith development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  optic recess of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  hydrocephalic  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased force  ( of )  muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal muscle thin filament assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle cell of inclusion body .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle cell of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril  ( muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mapk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  dorsal aorta of intersegmental vessel  ( dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  insufficient  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk of intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disheveled  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  trigeminal nerve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  trigeminal sensory neuron of extracellular matrix disassembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  trigeminal sensory neuron of sensory neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  vasculature of circulating cell  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  neural crest  ( axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk of posterior region  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood cell  ( bulbus arteriosus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  auditory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  xanthophore differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  barbel .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cerebellum vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve v of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron  ( rohon - beard neuron of dendritic filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sensory perception of mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  ridged  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of membrane repolarization .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axial blood vessel of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spinal cord of spinal cord oligodendrocyte cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spinal cord of regulation of oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  notochord of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  myotome of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk of dermis  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  esophagus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  esophageal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  esophageal epithelium of epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  photoreceptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer  ( retinal ganglion cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  adenohypophysis formation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus of posterior side  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  blood vasculature  ( hypophyseal artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  blood vasculature  ( hypophyseal capillary )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neurohypophysis of vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neurohypophysis of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of motor neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  amacrine cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  camera - type eye photoreceptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer  ( retinal inner nuclear layer of horizontal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer  ( retinal ganglion cell of dendrite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  amacrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of dendrite morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature of vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature of angioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature of blood vessel endothelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature of pharyngeal arch artery morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  facial lymphatic vessel of lymphangiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased speed  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( blue sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina of dorsal / ventral pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  motor neuron of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  motor neuron of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  determination of left / right asymmetry in diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of determination of left / right asymmetry in lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lateral semicircular canal development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  anterior macula  ( posterior macula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( lateral crista )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( lateral semicircular canal )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nodal signaling pathway involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  convergent extension involved in nephron morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  habenula of determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  habenula of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epithalamus of determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  medial floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  melanocyte of developmental pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  atrium  ( ventricular endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased anterior - posterior diameter  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  endocardium of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endocardium of cell - cell junction organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endocardium of cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  endocardium of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse  ( of )  endocardium of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  ventricular endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  presumptive endocardium of morphogenesis of an epithelial sheet .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  presumptive pronephric mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of cell proliferation in hindbrain ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  hindbrain of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  enteric nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior intestine of peristalsis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  enteric nervous system  ( enteric neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  enteric nervous system  ( enteric neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intestinal epithelium  ( goblet cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intestinal epithelium  ( enteroendocrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of enteroendocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  intestine lumen of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  rhombomere 6  ( cranial motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  rhombomere 7  ( cranial motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  rhombomere 4  ( cranial motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  ventral aorta  ( bulbus arteriosus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hypobranchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  hypobranchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thyroid follicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuron cell - cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  trunk of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  trunk of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased cellular motility  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron  ( medial longitudinal fasciculus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural plate morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural plate of cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  notochord of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular spatiotemporal quality  ( of )  neural tube of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic bud  ( pancreatic b cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  prechordal plate formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  prechordal plate of mesodermal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  thymus  ( t cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  thymus  ( fat cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  thymic epithelium  ( epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  eye field cell fate commitment involved in camera - type eye formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cellular response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of regulation of transcription involved in venous endothelial cell fate commitment .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell proliferation in forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  microvillous olfactory receptor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  postoptic commissure  ( postoptic commissure of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  postoptic commissure of medial region  ( glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  postoptic commissure of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  forebrain  ( anterior commissure )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  forebrain of roundabout signaling pathway involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  anterior commissure  ( anterior commissure of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  anterior commissure of medial region  ( glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  anterior commissure of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of adherens junction organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of apical protein localization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  optic vesicle morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of epithelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pineal complex  ( photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  parapineal organ .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  parapineal organ  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axial mesoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of posterior region  ( primary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sclerotome .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( notochord )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary  ( common cardinal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary of membrane  ( pronephric glomerular basement membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary of glomerular endothelium fenestra .
abnormal ( ly )  discontinuous  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2  ( pharyngeal arch 3 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trigeminal sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  habenula of determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  parapineal organ .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  chondrocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  chondrocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  motor neuron of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  motor neuron of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  motor neuron of node of ranvier .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  motor neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( uv sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  parapineal organ of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  parapineal organ of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell  ( uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of cone cell pedicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk of dermis  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  myotome of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased strength  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned away from  ( of )  hyohyoideus  ( hyohyoideus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  fast muscle cell of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  fast muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  fast muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  red  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  anal fin  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  habenula of determination of left / right asymmetry in diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  habenula of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelination in peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  protein kinase b signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk vasculature of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  corneal endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior segment eye .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  anterior segment eye .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior segment eye of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  common lymphoid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ependymal cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of apical region  ( compact layer of ventricle of cardiac myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of basal cortex  ( compact layer of ventricle of cardiac myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of ventricular cardiac myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  learning .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  learning .
abnormal ( ly )  rhythm quality  ( of )  circadian rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  locomotory exploration behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  caudal tuberculum of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  head of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  atrium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  osteoblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intramembranous ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  thrombocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cellular response to oxidative stress .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  definitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  centrum of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  opercle of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ceratohyal bone of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cranium of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hematopoietic system  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hematopoietic system  ( thrombocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  habenula development .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic vesicle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic vesicle of regionalization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic vesicle of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  optic vesicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  ovarian follicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  spermatogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  vitellogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  female gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ovulation .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  mauthner neuron of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of dendrite morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  spinal cord of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  unstructured  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  looseness  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  edge shape  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  optic vesicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cerebellum of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  cerebellum of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sclerotome development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  thymus development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  golgi organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lipid digestion .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  cholangiocyte of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myelin maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  respiratory burst involved in defense response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  blood island of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood island of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  head of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  myeloid cell of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased female fertility  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  otolith  ( otolith organ )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic vesicle of posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  otic vesicle of posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic vesicle of anterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  gut of peristalsis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glucose import .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  lateral longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  fasciculation  ( of )  lateral longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( auditory epithelial support cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  periderm of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  peridermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  peridermal cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  periderm of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  cell of lysosome  ( periderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  cell of endosome  ( periderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  cell of vesicle  ( periderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  peridermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  peridermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  peridermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  peridermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  peridermal cell of basolateral plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  peridermal cell of apical plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  peridermal cell of cell projection membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lymphocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myeloid cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( tether cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pancreas  ( pancreatic acinar cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pancreas of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreatic acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  posterior macula of tether cell  ( sagitta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  sagitta of otolith tethering .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  utricle of acellular anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  otic vesicle of otolith formation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  otic vesicle of otolith tethering .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  nodal signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric proximal tubule morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  glomerular visceral epithelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pronephros of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  right side of  ( of )  liver  ( gut )  .
abnormal ( ly )  left side of  ( of )  pancreas  ( gut )  .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  macula  ( macula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior macula  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  altered number of  ( of )  whole organism  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior macula  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sympathetic nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial neural crest of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial neural crest of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial neural crest of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  sympathetic nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  sympathetic nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pectoral fin bud of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pectoral fin bud of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral fin field .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  pectoral fin field .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  scapulocoracoid of bony projection .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  scapulocoracoid of bony projection .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  endodermal cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hypoblast  ( endodermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased behavioural activity  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  glutamatergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  glycinergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  thymus of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural rod of anterior / posterior pattern specification .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  hypothalamus of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord dorsal / ventral patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord motor neuron cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of protein localization to cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  head of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of renal system vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  chromaffin cell  ( interrenal gland )  .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  chromaffin cell  ( interrenal primordium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardioblast cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  establishment of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic chiasm .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  smooth muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  esophagus of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  enteric musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  primitive erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lumenized  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  caudal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  pronephric tubule of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of cell differentiation involved in pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of cell differentiation involved in pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  basilar artery .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  basilar artery  ( primordial hindbrain channel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  interrenal  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  voltage - gated potassium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of exocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of peptide hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud of endocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  d cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  motor neuron of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
abnormal ( ly )  well differentiated  ( of )  hypothalamus of somatostatin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  multinucleate  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  telencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  locus coeruleus of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  telencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pretectum of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  preoptic area of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  ventricular zone of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk of primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  establishment or maintenance of apical / basal cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of basal part of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  actin cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  invagination involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  domed  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( retinal ganglion cell of presynaptic active zone )  .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  physiological state  ( of )  visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neuron projection morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  muscle cell of muscle myosin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle cell of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( vh ionocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  growth quality of occurrent  ( of )  generation of neurons .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac atrium development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endocardial cushion formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell junction organization .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial cartilage of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  chondrocyte of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral crista .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  symplectic of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of bony projection .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  olfactory epithelium  ( olfactory epithelium of ciliated olfactory receptor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vagal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  brain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  eye of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of retinal ganglion cell axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  xanthoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  direction  ( of )  cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  atrium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  establishment of blood - brain barrier .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of u1 snrnp .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  macula utricle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  pronephric duct of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  pronephric duct of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  progressive  ( of )  cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  synaptic transmission ,  glutamatergic .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  magnesium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  calcium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cellular response to electrical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  degree of pigmentation  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  well differentiated  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  basement membrane assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle acetylcholine - gated channel clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  post - vent region of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  somite specification .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation in midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  segmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  muscle cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  2 - d shape  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  digestive system development .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epiphysis of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral line of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioural active  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  tract of the postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  peripheral neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  peripheral neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of a band .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  lapillus .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  muscle organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trypsinogen activation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  retinal cell programmed cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal rod cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  posterior neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  involution involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  cell migration involved in heart formation .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( ventral fin fold )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( eye photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chromosome condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  heterochronic growth  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  weight  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  normal  ( of )  trunk of neural crest cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  5s class rrna transcription by rna polymerase iii .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  inter - frontal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  inter - frontal joint of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  inter - parietal joint of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  frontal - parietal joint of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lysosomal lumen acidification .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neuron apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  heparan sulfate proteoglycan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  macula of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  macula of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrium of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( rohon - beard neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( primary interneuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  rostrocaudal neural tube patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  ventricular system of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  muscle cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( muller cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pigment cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  endothelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell fate commitment .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell - cell junction organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  artery morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  caudal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial vasculature of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  subintestinal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  central nervous system structural organization .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  caudal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  anal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  filtration diaphragm assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  intramembranous ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  alignment  ( of )  myotome of slow muscle cell  ( myotome of slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myeloid cell apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sodium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of potassium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  slow muscle cell of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  slow muscle cell of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  slow muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  fast muscle cell of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fast muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  myotome of myofibril  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  programmed cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hepatocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  distance  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliary basal body  ( kupffer's vesicle of apical plasma membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  renal filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal cone cell  ( retinal cone cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of golgi organization .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  has number of  ( of )  spinal cord of dorsal region  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  well differentiated  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  peroxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  straight  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  anterior lateral line of neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  medial rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  medial rectus of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  medial rectus of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  distance  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( meckel's cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  adductor mandibulae of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  adductor mandibulae of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  adductor mandibulae of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  adductor mandibulae of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  interhyoideus of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  interhyoideus of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  interhyoideus of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  interhyoideus of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  somitomeric trunk muscle development .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pectoral fin cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  tela chorioidea of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pectoral fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  floor plate neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  keratinocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of inner ear receptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  sympathetic nervous system  ( sympathetic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetry  ( of )  habenula .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  fin  ( melanophore stripe )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  apoptotic process involved in heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of a band .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  phospholipase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  post - vent region of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  visual behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  fat cell of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  peripheral nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  nuclear division .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  microtubule polymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  presumptive neural retina of centrosome  ( presumptive neural retina of apical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  leydig cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  sertoli cell .
abnormal ( ly )  regular duration  ( of )  trunk segmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  attachment quality  ( of )  forerunner cell group of apical junction complex  ( evl of apical junction complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  temporal distribution quality  ( of )  neural tube of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  temporal distribution quality  ( of )  neural tube of neural crest cell delamination .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  integument ionocyte of vacuolar proton - transporting v - type atpase ,  v1 domain .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of vacuolar proton - transporting v - type atpase ,  v0 domain .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  glomerular filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  axial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of telomerase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  whole organism of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  endoderm  ( endocrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud  ( d cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventral spinal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( rohon - beard neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  evl of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  del .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neural crest cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  larval development .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  hindbrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  caudal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  anal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cellular response to absence of light .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  blue sensitive photoreceptor cell of heterotrimeric g - protein complex .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell of heterotrimeric g - protein complex .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mesodermal cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  contractile  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  cranial vasculature  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lens fiber cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  homologous chromosome pairing at meiosis .
abnormal ( ly )  movement behavioral quality  ( of )  positive phototaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  on - bipolar cell of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  circadian rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pineal gland development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epiphysis of circadian regulation of gene expression .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lateral mesoderm morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  cranium of neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  lateral line of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  hepatocyte of glycogen granule .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac chamber morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  phototaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  liver regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  laminar  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  dorsal rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lateral rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  dorsal oblique extraocular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  ventral oblique extraocular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  thymus of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hindbrain of mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rrna processing .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  mid intestine of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  lens epithelium of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  axial vasculature of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  floor plate of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  floor plate of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephros of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  rhombomere 7 of branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  neural tube of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  floor plate of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of cell proliferation in hindbrain ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  inner ear of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  hair cell posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  semicircular canal of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mesonephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mitotic chromosome condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spindle assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blastoderm cell of chromatin .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  blastoderm cell of chromosome  ( blastoderm cell of chromosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  tubulin n - acetyltransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  tubulin - glycine ligase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retina morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  trunk of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  trunk of iridophore  ( trunk of melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  enteric nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic bud  ( pancreatic b cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  wnt signaling pathway ,  planar cell polarity pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hair cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  axial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  angioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  regular duration  ( of )  ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  attachment quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spermatogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  maturity  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  fertility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  ovarian follicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  male fertility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  brain of cellular response to dna damage stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterior / posterior pattern specification involved in pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cilium movement involved in cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephros of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  pronephros of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  inner ear of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  whole organism of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  mass density  ( of )  whole organism of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  pigmented  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  cloacal chamber of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( muscle pioneer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of skeletal muscle contraction via regulation of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  whole organism of chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  muscle fiber development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  somite of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  establishment of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  growth rate  ( of )  pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  frequency  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  nerve of compact myelin .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  non - membrane spanning protein tyrosine kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  somite of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  somite of laminin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  coiling  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( thrombocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord motor neuron cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( spinal cord of motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation in forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hypophysis formation .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hypophysis of smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  adenohypophysis  ( somatotropin secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  adenohypophysis  ( prolactin secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  adenohypophysis  ( adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  adenohypophysis  ( thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  adenohypophysis of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  adenohypophysis of corticotropin hormone secreting cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  somatotropin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan biosynthetic process ,  polysaccharide chain biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth  ( ceratobranchial 5 bone )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  mediodorsal tooth row  ( ceratobranchial 5 tooth )  .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  chondrocyte of collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  chondrocyte of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  astral spindle assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  serine - type endopeptidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood coagulation .
abnormal ( ly )  regular duration  ( of )  establishment of endothelial blood - brain barrier .
abnormal ( ly )  lumenized  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  diencephalon of serotonergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  speed  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  melanosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hemoglobin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  trunk of melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  regenerating fin of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  anal fin proximal radial .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  anal fin distal radial .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  central nervous system myelin formation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mauthner neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pronephric duct of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  central canal of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fast muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fast muscle cell of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fast muscle cell of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pattern specification process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestinal rod .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  goblet cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  speed  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  otic vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  establishment of apical / basal cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fucosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart field specification .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic heart tube development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrial endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventricular endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of establishment of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  lumenized  ( of )  pancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  primary islet of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  secondary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  secondary islet of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  central nervous system morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardiac muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ependymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  ependymal cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium of enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  camera - type eye photoreceptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optomotor response .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  melanocyte stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  caudal fin of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  iridophore differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  xanthophore differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pigment granule dispersal .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pigment granule aggregation in cell center .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lateral larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  iridoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  proctodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  swim bladder of mesothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  cleithrum of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  opercular flap of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  perichondral bone .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  transcription by rna polymerase ii .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter in response to stress .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  spinal cord of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pronephros of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of paranode region of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  mauthner neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  calmodulin - dependent protein kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vestibular reflex .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  myotome of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  whole organism of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lumenized  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sodium ion transport .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  forebrain  ( glutamatergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  trunk of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  macrophage of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  optokinetic behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  inner ear of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  male gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epiphysis of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epiphysis of ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  atrium  ( atrial endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  atrium  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  epiblast of actin cap .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  evl of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  post - vent region of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hepatoblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk of vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  extrahepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  extrapancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  telencephalon of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterior neural plate formation .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  whole  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuroblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epinephrine metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  serotonin metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  gabaergic neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  leukocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  olfactory placode of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  height  ( of )  hair cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  normal  ( of )  determination of left / right asymmetry in lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  normal  ( of )  determination of pancreatic left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  normal  ( of )  embryonic heart tube left / right pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  central canal of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  central canal of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rostrocaudal neural tube patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pattern specification process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cartilage condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cellular response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  amacrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  off - bipolar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  wakefulness .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  nodal signaling pathway involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  anterior / posterior pattern specification involved in pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axial mesoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  erythrocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myotome of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle cell of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  peridermal cell of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  floor plate spinal cord region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  motor neuron of neuronal cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  esophageal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  brain of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  otic vesicle of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pronephric duct of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  central canal of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  intensity  ( of )  muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  trunk musculature of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  post - vent region of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  pigmented  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  melanin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  anterior commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural tube of rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  head kidney  ( pro - b cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  caudal fin of chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  texture  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  olfactory placode of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  lateral line of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  dorsal - ventral polarity  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  integument of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk musculature of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blood vasculature of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epithelium of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  primary heart field specification .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  secondary heart field specification .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation involved in heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  esophagus of smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  motor neuron of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  trunk of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  anterograde axonal transport .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  eye of retina layer formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  atrioventricular valve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  consistency  ( of )  cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  whole  ( of )  endocardium of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  protein autophosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mesencephalic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  response to external stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  acetylcholine uptake .
abnormal ( ly )  action potential  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of heart rate .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  tooth mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otolith mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  well differentiated  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  optic furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  macula utricle of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lapillus .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  lapillus of otolith mineralization completed early in development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lapillus of otolith tethering .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  sagitta of otolith mineralization completed early in development .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  levator arcus palatini of myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  adductor hyomandibulae of myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventricular system development .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  internal carotid artery  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of otolith tethering .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  macrophage activation involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  central nervous system neuron axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of spinal cord motor neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  yolk of melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  eye of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  inner ear of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  facial placode of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  vagal placode 4 of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  hypophyseal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of protein localization to plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  interhyal - epihyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  establishment or maintenance of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord anterior / posterior patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  esophagus .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pharyngeal pouch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  programmed cell death involved in cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ear morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  head morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  open  ( of )  proctodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lens development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  reproductive process .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endocardial progenitor cell migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  heart looping .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  digestive tract morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  perimeter  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  enteric nervous system  ( enteric neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  enteric longitudinal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  enteric circular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  mature  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  thyroid follicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  neuromast mantle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  synapse organization .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  hindbrain of fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  spinal cord of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  choroid plexus fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  olfactory bulb development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle arrest .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  hatching gland .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sensory neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk vasculature of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ribosome biogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  neuron apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuron apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  hatching gland .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  somite 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  somite 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  somite 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  somite 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  somite 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  forebrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  forebrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  intermediate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  glomerular filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  mesenchyme median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  whole  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere region .
abnormal ( ly )  whole  ( of )  floor plate midbrain region .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pronephric capsular space .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane of lamina densa .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary development .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  heart of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  mesodermal cell of lamellipodium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  retina of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dopamine biosynthetic process from tyrosine .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  habituation .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  locus coeruleus .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural tube patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  swim bladder of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  swim bladder of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cranial nerve x .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cranial nerve v .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  prolactin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pancreas of pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epithalamus of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  extraocular musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  motor neuron of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  fertile  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  pigmented  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  slow muscle cell of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  slow muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  slow muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  hematopoietic system .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic bud  ( d cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  dorsal / ventral pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  adrenal gland development .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  interrenal gland .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  interrenal gland of epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  interrenal gland of animal organ morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus  ( pronephric glomerulus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  chromaffin cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  interrenal  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle progenitor cell migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  split bilaterally  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  split bilaterally  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  myocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  enterocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intestinal epithelium  ( enterocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  digestive tract morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intestinal epithelium  ( goblet cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of apical region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of apical plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  enterocyte of recycling endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  gut of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  mineralized  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cranium of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  vertebral column of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  mineralized  ( of )  vertebral column of anatomical space .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  islet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  islet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  endoderm of antero - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  endoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  endoderm of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased intensity  ( of )  notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cerebellar neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  voltage - gated sodium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  voltage - gated potassium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  golgi to plasma membrane protein transport .
abnormal ( ly )  action potential  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  action potential  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of voltage - gated sodium channel complex  ( rohon - beard neuron of endoplasmic reticulum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of voltage - gated sodium channel complex  ( rohon - beard neuron of golgi apparatus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron  ( motor neuron of synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal anterior lateral line nerve  ( dorsal anterior lateral line nerve of synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal anterior lateral line nerve of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  disconnected  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  folded  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  pigmented  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased depth  ( of )  optic cup of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lens epithelium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  optic recess .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  extends beyond  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium  ( retina )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  retina of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  optic chiasm .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mucus secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  ear morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of nitric oxide biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  accelerated growth  ( of )  granuloma formation .
abnormal ( ly )  degree of pigmentation  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric duct of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pattern specification process .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  atrium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  vertical myoseptum of fibroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  atrial cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  endodermal cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endodermal cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  nodal signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  hypoblast  ( endodermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypoblast  ( endodermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  curvature  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  angiogenesis involved in wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  macrophage chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  intestine of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  caudal fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral fin fold  ( fin fold actinotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  angiogenesis involved in wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  ocular blood vessel of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ocular blood vessel of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ocular blood vessel of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  regenerating tissue of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating tissue of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  trunk of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  trunk of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  intestine of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  subintestinal vein of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cartilage morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of collagen type ii trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula of collagen type ii trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart valve development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk vasculature  ( blood vessel endothelial cell of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  intestine of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  vascular cord .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  angioblast cell migration from lateral mesoderm to midline .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vascular cord development .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  caudal vein of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chondrocranium of chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hyaloid vessel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disassembled  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disassembled  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  subintestinal vein of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial cell  ( intersegmental vessel of endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of endothelial cell  ( dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regenerating fin of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased adhesivity  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  extends beyond  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of unidimensional cell growth .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pattern specification process .
abnormal ( ly )  discontinuous  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  square  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased intensity  ( of )  response to drug .
abnormal ( ly )  increased intensity  ( of )  response to drug .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  intensity  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  limb joint morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  regenerating fin of lepidotrichium segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  notochord  ( notochord of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of ventral identity .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( post - vent region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  esophagus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intestinal rod .
abnormal ( ly )  angular  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  star shaped  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus  ( abducens motor nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus  ( trigeminal motor nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  entrainment of circadian clock by photoperiod .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  receptor - mediated endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  renal absorption .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of early endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  hindgut contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  hindgut contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  proteoglycan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  disaccharide biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  disaccharide biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  gut epithelium of brush border .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  regenerating fin of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  regenerating fin of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to heat .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  heart of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  renal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gut endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  post - vent region of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  regenerating fin of blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hindbrain - spinal cord boundary formation .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  rhombomere 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rhombomere .
abnormal ( ly )  mononucleate  ( of )  fast muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  lumenized  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pigment granule dispersal .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pigment granule aggregation in cell center .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pretectum  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  preoptic area  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  locus coeruleus  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  pigment granule dispersal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  pigment granule aggregation in cell center .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  distance  ( of )  eye  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  vagal lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sarcomerogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  nose development .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of endodermal cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  insulin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  insulin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  myotome of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  developmental process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  homotypic cell - cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  melanosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  renal system process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to x - ray .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  notochord morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  colorless  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  trunk musculature of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk musculature of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  basihyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  hypobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cellular response to dna damage stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  g2 dna damage checkpoint .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  sensitivity to irradiation  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased sensitivity to irradiation  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  central nervous system of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  brain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  enteric nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  enteric nervous system of serotonergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  rhombomere of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  hindbrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  camera - type eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  speed  ( of )  hypoblast of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  response to oxidative stress .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  atrial cardiac muscle cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  heart rudiment of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  lipid storage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  lipid storage .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  leukocyte chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  photoperiodism .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  oocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  common cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  blastoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epithelium development .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  regenerating fin of lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  regenerating fin of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  regenerating fin of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  paedomorphic growth  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  accelerated growth  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  integument of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  integument of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary structural organization .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventricular cardiac myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of striated muscle myosin thick filament .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle of i band .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  muscle of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  sodium ion transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  chloride transport .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  calcium - independent cell - cell adhesion via plasma membrane cell - adhesion molecules .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  adherens junction maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  del  ( del of cytoplasmic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  evl of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  del of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  del of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  del of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  brain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of protein targeting to membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to salt stress .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cortisol biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart of fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk vasculature of fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  base - excision repair .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly posterioralized  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  retinoic acid biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly posterioralized  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otolith formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  inner ear morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  macula utricle .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  lateral crista .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  anterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  macula saccule .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pillar of the anterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pillar of the posterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  periocular mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  common - partner smad protein phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  well differentiated  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  black  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disassembled  ( of )  presumptive neural retina of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gut epithelium of intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  gut of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  gut of smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  caudal fin of blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of striated muscle myosin thick filament .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  caudal fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  post - vent region of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  otic vesicle lateral protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  otic vesicle posterior protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  otic vesicle anterior protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  otic vesicle ventral protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  regeneration epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mesenchyme of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  heart primordium  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  thyroxine 5 - deiodinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  lateral line of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  lateral line of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  leukocyte migration involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  curled  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  granular  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  median fin fold of actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  median fin fold of actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  median fin fold of actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cartilage development involved in endochondral bone morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  scapulocoracoid of upper region .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  regenerating fin of actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  response to oxidative stress .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  glycine receptor clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  spinal cord of glycine - gated chloride channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud of endocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of actin filament bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly ventralized  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  lateral rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  abducens nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of circadian rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  renal tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  paraxial mesodermal cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of peripheral neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac chamber formation .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to chemical .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  mid intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  dense  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  blastoderm of margin .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of chromosome  ( yolk syncytial layer of chromosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undivided  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  slow muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  slow muscle cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  striated  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  slow muscle cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  iris of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  myocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuron projection regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mesodermal to mesenchymal transition involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypoblast of bleb .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  g1 to g0 transition .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pathogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hyphal growth .
abnormal ( ly )  maturity  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  right side of  ( of )  heart tube  ( axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell proliferation involved in pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( retinal pigmented epithelium of microvillus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hyaluronan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  hatching gland .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  sodium ion transport .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neutrophil mediated immunity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  defense response to gram - negative bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  frontal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of gtpase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pronephric capsular space .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  trunk musculature of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  post - vent region of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  trunk musculature of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  post - vent region of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  medial rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endocardial progenitor cell migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of rna stability .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  u - shaped  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  cranial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pronephric podocyte  ( pronephric podocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pronephros of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pronephric tubule of anterior region  ( pronephric tubule of anterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intermediate reticular formation of neuron projection regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of neuron projection regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  superior reticular formation medial column of neuron projection regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  superior reticular formation tegmentum of neuron projection regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sensory epithelium regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  myosin filament assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct development .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  mid diencephalic organizer .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  brain of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  brain of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  brain of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  endocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic duct  ( endocrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  extrapancreatic duct  ( endocrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  extrapancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  establishment of apical / basal cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood vessel of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  caudal fin actinotrichium  ( caudal fin of basement membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus of lateral region  ( peptide hormone secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  glutathione metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retina of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  retina of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  regenerating fin  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  inflated  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  color pattern  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium  ( neuromast hair cell of stereocilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to hypoxia .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  multicellular organism development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased sensitivity to irradiation  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  cell .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell  ( myotome of muscle tendon junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  granular  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  notochord inner cell of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  migratory slow muscle precursor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  retina of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regenerating fin of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regenerating tissue of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  paraxial mesodermal cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  well differentiated  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( notochord )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of axon extension involved in regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased coordination  ( of )  gastro - intestinal system smooth muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  innate immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  innate immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  glucose import .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  locomotor rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  locomotor rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  epiphysis of circadian regulation of gene expression .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  blastema of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  medial orientation  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  yolk of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( bile ductule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  bile ductule  ( bile ductule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  anterior commissure  ( anterior commissure of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  postoptic commissure of medial region  ( glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  anterior commissure of medial region  ( glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  anterior commissure of medial region  ( glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  postoptic commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  postoptic commissure of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterior commissure of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  forebrain of roundabout signaling pathway involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  increased object quality  ( of )  whole organism of snare complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  motor neuron of synaptic vesicle exocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  motor neuron of synaptic vesicle endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  fat cell of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fat cell of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  sodium:potassium - exchanging atpase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  protein kinase a signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  bmp signaling pathway involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  thermosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  re - entry into mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  median fin .
abnormal ( ly )  open  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased behavioural activity  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  l - ascorbic acid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  positive regulation of mda - 5 signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell of sarcoplasm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcoplasm  ( skeletal muscle cell of sarcoplasm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk musculature of mononuclear cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  histone h4 acetylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pronephric tubule of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  attachment quality  ( of )  vertebral artery  ( intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastomere of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  snout .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  whole organism of axis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron of presynaptic active zone  ( retinal bipolar neuron of synaptic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron of spontaneous neurotransmitter secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron of evoked neurotransmitter secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron of ribbon synapse  ( retinal bipolar neuron of synaptic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  hindbrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  midbrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal  ( of )  multi - ciliated epithelial cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  selenium compound metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to methylmercury .
abnormal ( ly )  alive  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  neurocranium  ( neurocranial trabecula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood cell  ( yolk of anatomical surface )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  atrioventricular canal  ( endocardium of obsolete cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  paraventricular organ of neurotransmitter metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  raphe nucleus of neurotransmitter metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  urea transport .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  ammonium transport .
abnormal ( ly )  adaxial to  ( of )  slow muscle cell  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  esophagus  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mastication .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased functionality  ( of )  osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  scale of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regenerating tissue of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  regenerating tissue of bone resorption .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  scale of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  scale of regenerating tissue  ( scale )  .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  scale of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retina of sensory epithelium regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retina of sensory epithelium regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retina of stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle structure development .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  optomotor response .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitochondrial calcium ion transmembrane transport .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( ciliated cell of inner dynein arm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( ciliated cell of outer dynein arm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  gut of left / right pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway involved in somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinoic acid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  response to starvation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  brain of ghrelin secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  digestive system of ghrelin secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  digestive system of ghrelin secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  frequency  ( of )  motor neuron of synaptic transmission ,  glycinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to virus .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of establishment or maintenance of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  neuromast regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  notochord inner cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  esophageal epithelium of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  serotonergic neuron of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  proteasomal protein catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  proteasomal protein catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  torc1 signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  mrna transcription by rna polymerase ii .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of cytoplasmic translation .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myosin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cortisol metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cortisol metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cortisol metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hatching .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  hatching .
abnormal ( ly )  temporally extended  ( of )  evl of epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  temporally extended  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  del of epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  temporally extended  ( of )  del of epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cellular sodium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  nak ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  integument of keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  integument of mucus secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of cardiac muscle contraction by calcium ion signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrial cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart of troponin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart of muscle thin filament tropomyosin .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  adenohypophysis  ( thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell of programmed cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium  ( goblet cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  mid intestine epithelium  ( goblet cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior intestine epithelium  ( goblet cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased depth  ( of )  intestinal bulb of intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neutrophil migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  liver regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  liver of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  g - quadruplex dna formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  muller cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  smoothened signaling pathway involved in ventral spinal cord patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cellular response to uv .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  occipital region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  parachordal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cellular response to ionizing radiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon extension involved in regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon extension involved in regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intermediate reticular formation of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intermediate reticular formation of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus medulla oblongata of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus medulla oblongata of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord dorsal / ventral patterning .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  ventral root .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hindbrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  spinal cord of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  epidermal cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  parapineal organ .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  parapineal organ .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle of collagen network .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of collagen network .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cholesterol biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  protein farnesylation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  protein geranylgeranylation .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  hindbrain of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  respiratory gaseous exchange by respiratory system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  osteoblast of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  osteoblast of cell dedifferentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium of bone regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mesoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cranial cartilage of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  mesenchyme median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  median fin fold of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  intensity  ( of )  notochord of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  cartilaginous joint .
abnormal ( ly )  increased weight  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  muscle  ( tendon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite border of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  gut of peristalsis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  gut of peristalsis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  lens of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retina of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  optic vesicle of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  optic vesicle of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  open  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  retina  ( brain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( retinal rod cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  retina of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  retina of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  skeletal system .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  preural 1 vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  preural 2 vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  preural vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin skeleton  ( skeletal element )  .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  hemal spine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  photoreceptor cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  nucleated  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lens of enucleation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  adult behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  mesencephalic nucleus of trigeminal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  trunk of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( muller cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  gill filament .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  head kidney of hematopoietic system .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  permeability  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  vasculature of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( secondary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral spinal nerve  ( cap motoneuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primary motor neuron of spinal cord motor neuron cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventral spinal cord interneuron specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  primary motor neuron of ventral spinal cord interneuron specification .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  ventral spinal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral spinal nerve  ( secondary motor neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  interrenal gland .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromuscular process controlling balance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  sensory perception of mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  splayed  ( of )  neuromast of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  muller cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina of tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  left / right axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium  ( kupffer's vesicle of axonemal microtubule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  generation of neurons .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  prolactin secreting cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neutrophil of response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  learning or memory .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hypothalamus of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  forebrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retina of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  muller cell of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  closure of optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  closure  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding into  ( of )  retina  ( brain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  scale of ossification involved in bone remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  scale of ossification involved in bone remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  scale of bone resorption .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  scale of bone resorption .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  scale of bone remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  trunk of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  somite of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  somite of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  motor nucleus of vagal nerve of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endodermal cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( endoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trigeminal nerve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial nerve v of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  desaturated red  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  evl of epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  del of epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  leukocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  presumptive ectoderm of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cytokine production involved in inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  common cardinal vein of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  post - vent region of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  t cell apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  retina of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of dorsal side  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte  ( dorsal longitudinal fasciculus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  glial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to gamma radiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to dna damage by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  central nervous system of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  fasciculus retroflexus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  spinal cord of rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of cns interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  whole organism of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pro - t cell of precursor t - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma / leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  optic tectum of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  epiphysis of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  inner ear receptor cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula  ( macula utricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  anterior lateral line neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast hair cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  otic vesicle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  macula  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic heart tube elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  endocardial cushion of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  interrenal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial vasculature of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  interrenal  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thymus of pro - t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  thymus of pro - t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pancreas  ( pancreatic b cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic stem cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  receptor - mediated endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  renal absorption .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of early endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardioblast cell midline fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  habenula of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ventricular epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  migratory slow muscle precursor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  phagocytosis ,  engulfment .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  response to drug .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lymphatic system .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  fecundity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  brain development .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  growth .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  insulin processing .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  colorless  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  astrocyte activation .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  axial fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  regulation of circadian rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  branchiostegal ray  ( branchiostegal ray )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  musculature system  ( musculature system )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  musculature system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  musculature system .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  whole organism of tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  nasal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  viral entry into host cell .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  gonad  ( gonad )  .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  pancreas  ( pancreas )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  mass density  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  scale  ( scale )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  visual behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of synaptic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  multipotent  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  exocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  heart rudiment  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( trabecular layer of ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  ventral larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly ventralized  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hatching gland .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  trunk musculature of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  intersegmental artery of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  heart tube  ( endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  heart  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  heart  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  atrium  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( retinal ganglion cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment or maintenance of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  primary posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  neuromast  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  neuromast  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  peridermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0005913 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of adherens junction maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  enteric nervous system  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  enteric nervous system  ( serotonergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  endocardial cushion formation .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  mature neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epidermal cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  fin of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mature neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  immune system .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  mature neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mature neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  response to mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  closure  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  caudal fin of pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  dwarf - like  ( of )  skeletal system .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  parietal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  punctate  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( cid )  .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neutrophil - mediated killing of fungus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neutrophil migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  leukocyte migration involved in inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  leukocyte of protein nitrosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  neutrophil of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pigment granule dispersal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pigment granule aggregation in cell center .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  anatomical structure homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium of distal side  ( caudal fin lepidotrichium of proximal side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  caudal fin of epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  dislocated  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium of joint  ( caudal fin lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  generation of neurons .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  olfactory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  occipital arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  non neural ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  response to xenobiotic stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased intensity  ( of )  response to xenobiotic stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  common lymphoid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  caudal fin of regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  dorsal fin of regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula  ( neurocranium of posterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  anterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  posterior lateral line of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spindle - shaped  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  well differentiated  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart trabecula formation .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  wakefulness .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  visual behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  mechanosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  response to absence of light .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  thermosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  muller cell of cell dedifferentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  primitive prosencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( head )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  prosencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  post - vent region of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastemal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  swim bladder of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  swim bladder of mesothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  swim bladder bud .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  auditory capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  cranial nerve of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  morphogenesis of embryonic epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regenerating fin of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  blastema of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  blastema of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  amacrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  amacrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retina of synaptic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular spatiotemporal quality  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  retina of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to amphetamine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  acetylcholinesterase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  gut of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  b cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  kidney of immature b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  immature b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  immature b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  medial floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  optic cup  ( optic cup )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  optic vesicle  ( optic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( floor plate )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  spinal cord of primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of anatomical region  ( secondary motor neuron of anatomical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  hatching gland .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch  ( pharyngeal pouch 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch  ( pharyngeal pouch 2 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of the force of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  distal tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  proximal convoluted tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuromast mantle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  interneuromast cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  interneuromast cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  median fin fold of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin fold of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  median fin fold of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin fold of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  gut of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  liver of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  distance  ( of )  rhombomere 5  ( somite 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  primitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trabecula formation .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  muller cell of nucleus  ( muller cell of apical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  muller cell of interkinetic nuclear migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardioblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  post - vent region of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  swim bladder inflation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  prepulse inhibition .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuromuscular process controlling posture .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  leukocyte migration involved in inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  olfactory placode formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  olfactory placode formation .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  blood island of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neutrophil of response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to fungus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to fungus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  tumor necrosis factor - mediated signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  sharpness  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( lapillus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetrical  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  lateral crista .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  macula of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( sagitta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  habenula .
abnormal ( ly )  right side of  ( of )  parapineal organ  ( epiphysis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  parapineal organ .
abnormal ( ly )  mosaicism  ( of )  eye of pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  liver and biliary system .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  exserted  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  renal system .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  melatonin metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  wakefulness .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory placode of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinal rod cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  posterior neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  anterior neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  spade - shaped  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  medial floor plate of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region  ( muscle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephros of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  keratin accumulating cell  ( epidermis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  metastatic  ( of )  gut of precursor t - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma / leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  whole organism of precursor t - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma / leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  cleft  ( of )  chondrocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  anterior cardinal vein  ( posterior cardinal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta  ( lateral dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  aortic arch of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  flagellated sperm motility .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased cellular motility  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  wholeness  ( of )  sperm of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  sperm of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  permeability  ( of )  sperm of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  fertilization .
abnormal ( ly )  translucent  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  integument of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eye of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  integument of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  velocity  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  increased velocity  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  preoptic area of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retina of basal lamina .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axis elongation involved in somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  sensory neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  blood of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pigment granule dispersal .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to nicotine .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pancreas of posterior region  ( endocrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pancreas of posterior region  ( endocrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  secondary islet of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pancreas  ( secondary islet )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer  ( neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer  ( neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retina of neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  involution involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  blastoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  magnitude  ( of )  cell aging .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  neurohypophysis  ( neurosecretory neuron of axon terminus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  neurohypophysis  ( blood vasculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  head of phagocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  post - vent region of phagocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  straight angle to  ( of )  somite  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  somite of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart primordium of cardiac muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  keratinocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  fin vasculature  ( blood cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  post - vent region of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  post - vent region of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium  ( neuromast hair cell of stereocilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  formation of anatomical boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell proliferation involved in kidney development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myeloid cell activation involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neutrophil differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  superficial lateralis of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  sensory perception of touch .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  common cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  rhythm quality  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  translucent  ( of )  del .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of cortical cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  evl of lamellipodium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  evl of blastoderm cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  del of blastoderm cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  marginal blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  blastoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  evl of blastoderm cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  leukocyte chemotaxis involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  leukocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cranial vasculature  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endocardium  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  shield of blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  macula utricle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  macula saccule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pillar of the anterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pillar of the posterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  detection of mechanical stimulus involved in equilibrioception .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lagena .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  saccule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  utricle .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  mesencephalic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  epiphysis of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  solid lens vesicle of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  caudal fin of epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  discontinuous  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  sinoatrial node .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of rate  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oocyte anterior / posterior axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intracellular mrna localization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chorion micropyle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  unfertilized egg .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  ovary of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  oocyte of mitochondrial cloud .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  oocyte stage i of intercellular bridge .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior lateral mesoderm of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  chordo neural hinge .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  multicellular organismal locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  retinal rod cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  ventral spinal cord interneuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( veld )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( cid )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( veld )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  macrophage chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  inflammatory response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  punctiform  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  peramorphic growth  ( of )  animal organ regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lymphocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus  ( serotonergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus  ( neuronal stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus  ( radial glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  caudal hypothalamic zone .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  semicircular  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  response to temperature stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  response to chemical .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  response to chemical .
abnormal ( ly )  regular duration  ( of )  primitive erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus  ( radial glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  endoderm of hepatoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  protein kinase b signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  response to mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  endoderm formation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  macrophage of phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  macrophage of phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  macrophage of phagocytosis ,  engulfment .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  frontal bone of bone regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  liver of blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural complex .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  neural complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cellular response to dna damage stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  valvula cerebelli of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cell of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast hair cell differentiation involved in neuromast regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  low brightness  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  ventricular endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  optic chiasm of cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  maxillary barbel of tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  maxillary barbel of tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  pineal complex of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pineal complex of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pole plasm assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pole plasm mrna localization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pole plasm mrna localization .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  oocyte stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetry  ( of )  oocyte stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  keratinocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  jaw flap  ( breeding tubercle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  permeability  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cerebellum of granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  molecular layer corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  granule cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellum of granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellum of purkinje cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of guanylate cyclase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ethanol metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  establishment of melanosome localization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to ethanol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  behavioral response to ethanol .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cellular response to ethanol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myelination of posterior lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  posterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  posterior lateral line of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  regenerating fin of fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  caudal fin of interray vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  caudal fin of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium  ( caudal fin lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lepidotrichium of fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  response to amphetamine .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelination in peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  myelination of posterior lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelination in peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  permeability  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  folded  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cell of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  macroautophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  trunk of spinal cord neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  alar plate midbrain region of apical junction complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  photosensitive  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pelvic fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  otic vesicle protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  forebrain ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  defecation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle acetylcholine - gated channel clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of somatostatin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  xanthophore of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  drooping  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  drooping  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  drooping  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central nervous system of adrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  thyroid hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of glucagon secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of glucagon secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of glucagon secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  central nervous system of adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central nervous system of adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lymphocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of common lymphoid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  malignant  ( of )  whole organism of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  head kidney of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  head kidney of myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  sensory neuron of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( sensory neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ear morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  melanocyte of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  caudal fin of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hepaticobiliary system process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  gall bladder of lipid storage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  liver of connective tissue replacement involved in inflammatory response wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  liver of tissue remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  pectoral fin of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  pectoral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficiency  ( of )  mating .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pelvic radial .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal fin pterygiophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anal fin pterygiophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pelvic fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pelvic fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin radial .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lepidotrichium segment .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pectoral fin skeleton  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  axial fin skeleton  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pelvic fin  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pelvic fin skeleton  ( lepidotrichium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  head of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  peramorphic growth  ( of )  developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased weight  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  heterochronic growth  ( of )  developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  kidney of granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  kidney of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  sporadic  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  pleomorphic  ( of )  melanocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  protein metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  positive regulation of transcription by rna polymerase ii .
abnormal ( ly )  surface feature shape  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  caudal fin of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  negative regulation of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  black  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  unpigmented  ( of )  caudal fin of adnexal and skin appendage tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  black  ( of )  post - vent region of melanocytic tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  gill of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  black  ( of )  mouth of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  black  ( of )  head of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  head of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  binucleate  ( of )  integument of melanoma in situ .
abnormal ( ly )  multinucleate  ( of )  integument of melanoma in situ .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  color pattern  ( of )  larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  mucus secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  head of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  t cell apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 11 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 14 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 17 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 12 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 15 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 18 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 8 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 10 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 13 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 16 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  reproductive behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  opercular flap .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  premaxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  supraorbital bone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  orbital region .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( insulin secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cellular sodium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  inner ear of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of stereocilia tip link .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast support cell of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  3 - d shape  ( of )  neuromast of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  neuromast of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  pectoral fin bud of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  pectoral fin bud of portion of tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral fin of cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin of scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hindbrain neural rod of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hindbrain neural rod of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  detection of light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  entopterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  sclerotic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  lens epithelium of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  ventral lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  forebrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  head of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heparan sulfate proteoglycan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chondroitin sulfate biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  myoblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  myotome of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  myotome of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  myotome of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to chemical .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  perichondrium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oral region of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  retroarticular .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  spermatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  spermatogonium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  oocyte stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  immature gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  oocyte stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell communication by electrical coupling .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  forebrain neural keel of antero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sensory perception of smell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to amino acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  voluntary musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  motor neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  motor neuron of terminal bouton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cellular response to unfolded protein .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of glycinergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  synaptic transmission ,  glycinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cellular response to unfolded protein .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( skeletal muscle cell of neuromuscular junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of buoyancy .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  optic nerve head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye of retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  leucine metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  female fertile  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  male mating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  male sterile  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spermatogonium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  positive regulation of wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intracellular mrna localization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  peripheral nervous system myelin maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  dorsal fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lapillus .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  vascular associated smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  notochord of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  notochord of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  vertical myoseptum of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  pancreas of adenocarcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  female gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  binucleate  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endodermal digestive tract morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  head of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  lumenized  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  yellow orange  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle ,  embryonic .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  muscle of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  muscle of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  head kidney  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  blood island of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  head of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  circulating cell  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  peptidyl - tyrosine autophosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  permeability  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased permeability  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  lymph vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  afferent neuron  ( afferent neuron of dendritic branch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric nephron tubule morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephros of establishment of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  neuromast hair cell  ( neuromast hair cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  presynaptic membrane assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  neuromast hair cell  ( neuromast hair cell of voltage - gated calcium channel complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of voltage - gated calcium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of neuronal synaptic plasticity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of terminal bouton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  trunk of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  notochord cell vacuolation .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  postcranial axial skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  axon extension involved in regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  circling  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  cns neuron  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cns neuron  ( sensu vertebrata )  of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  esophagus .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  oocyte stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  oocyte stage iii .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  oocyte stage iv .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  integument of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  whole organism of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  basilar artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intersegmental lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  intersegmental lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  thoracic duct of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel  ( dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vein of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  wrinkled  ( of )  cell of nuclear envelope .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  determination of adult lifespan .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mesonephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  iris .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cellular response to uv - b .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  islet .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  islet of pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite of anatomical boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  fatty acid oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  forebrain ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  leptotene .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  meiotic prophase i .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  male meiosis i .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  male meiosis i .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spermatocyte of condensed chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  testis of spermatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sperm duct of sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  testis of spermatogonium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  testis of spermatogonium .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  zygotene .
abnormal ( ly )  non - progressive  ( of )  meiotic prophase i .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  sertoli cell .
abnormal ( ly )  phosphorylation  ( of )  spermatocyte of chromatin .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  leydig cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( mandibular arch skeleton )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  branchial muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  mandibular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  mandibular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  extraocular musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  chondrocyte of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  on - bipolar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  area density  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  horizontal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  otic epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  semicircular canal formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  photoreceptor cell maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell  ( olfactory granule cell of synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell  ( central zone olfactory bulb of synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  concentrated  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of synaptic vesicle  ( central zone of the optic tectum of axon terminus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of synaptic vesicle  ( central zone of the optic tectum of synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  central zone olfactory bulb of postsynaptic density .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  granule cell of postsynaptic density .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon terminus  ( central zone olfactory bulb of synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  central zone olfactory bulb of postsynaptic density .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  central zone olfactory bulb of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  slow muscle cell of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  slow muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon of ventral region  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  transparent  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  translucent  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  floor plate of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  acinar cell of zymogen granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  response to auditory stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  latency  ( of )  response to auditory stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  hyporesponsive to  ( of )  swimming behavior  ( response to auditory stimulus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pharyngeal arch cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  oriented  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  teardrop - shaped  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  trunk of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  trunk of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  trunk of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased height  ( of )  head of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  bulbous  ( of )  trunk of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  jnk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  p38mapk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  erk1 and erk2 cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  liver of hepatocellular carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  oncogene - induced cell senescence .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating fin of epidermal basal stratum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating fin of blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  postcranial axial skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  caudal fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  kinethmoid bone .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hypural .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  uroneural .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  kinethmoid bone .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  postcranial axial skeleton  ( neural arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endothelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental artery  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  basihyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuromast support cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased angle to  ( of )  trunk  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cell communication by electrical coupling .
abnormal ( ly )  electrical conductivity  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  slow - twitch skeletal muscle fiber contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  negative regulation of glucocorticoid secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  glucose homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  glucose import in response to insulin stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of cortisol secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  interrenal gland .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  intestine smooth muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  intestine of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  distance  ( of )  ventricular endocardium  ( ventricular myocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( palatoquadrate arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( ventral mandibular arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle progenitor cell migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  undivided  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  undivided  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decayed  ( of )  blastoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  evl of superficial blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  post - vent region of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  edge shape  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  notochord of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of neuron  ( retinal photoreceptor layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hatching gland cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  prechordal plate of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  hindbrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  flat  ( of )  hindbrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  hindbrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased intensity  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  fasciculation  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hindbrain commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  brain of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  spinal cord of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  neuroectoderm of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  tail bud of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( grey matter )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  immature eye .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  periderm .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  hindbrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  pointed  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  hair cell posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  inner ear morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  auditory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  equilibrioception .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  peripheral nervous system myelin formation .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  brain of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  colorless  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  grey  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  brown  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  hepatic sinusoid  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glycogen catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  esophagus .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  pharyngeal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  intestine  ( pharynx )  .
abnormal ( ly )  red brown  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  hepatic sinusoid .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  olfactory pit .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  quadrate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye of pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell  ( spinal cord )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fluorescence  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  xanthophore of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  xanthophore of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  dorsomedial optic tract  ( ventrolateral optic tract )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  white  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  fluorescence  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  green  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  pinnate  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  xanthophore of pterinosome .
abnormal ( ly )  desaturated yellow  ( of )  head of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  granular  ( of )  head of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  iris .
abnormal ( ly )  brown  ( of )  head of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  desaturated green  ( of )  head of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  brown  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fluorescence  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  white  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  melanocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  melanocyte of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  star shaped  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  ventral larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  swim bladder of dorsal region  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  ventral larval melanophore stripe of dorsal region  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  ventral larval melanophore stripe of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  yolk larval melanophore stripe  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  yolk larval melanophore stripe of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  trunk of ventro - lateral region  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  trunk of ventro - lateral region  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  post - vent region of ventro - lateral region  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  post - vent region of ventro - lateral region  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of hemangiosarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  eye of hemangiosarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  oral ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  chondrocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  dorsal hyoid arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ventral hyoid arch .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7  ( pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  chondrocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  dorsal hyoid arch .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  ventral hyoid arch .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  dorsal hyoid arch .
abnormal ( ly )  associated with  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage  ( pharyngeal arch cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  oral ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  interrenal gland of neuroblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  interrenal gland of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  superior cervical ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  interrenal gland of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  trunk of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cranium of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  senescent  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  liver of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hepatocyte of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased object quality  ( of )  liver of hepatocellular carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  testis of germ cell tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  concave  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  neurocranium  ( ethmoid cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  neurocranium  ( trabecula cranii )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( neural crest )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  head  ( epidermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic duct  ( endocrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  somite 4 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cranial ganglion maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  vagal ganglion 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  vagal ganglion 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  vagal ganglion 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  upper rhombic lip of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased cellular motility  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neutrophil extravasation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  leukocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  leukocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  symplectic .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  symplectic  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size  ( of )  symplectic .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 1 of anterior compartment .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  liver of hepatoblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  hyaluronan biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endocardial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  ventricular endocardium of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  substrate - dependent cell migration ,  cell attachment to substrate .
abnormal ( ly )  spheroid  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  retina of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  eye of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  eye of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  eye of medial - lateral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  low brightness  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain of dorsal region  ( purkinje cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain of purkinje cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  intestine of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  slow muscle cell of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  somite of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  actin filament polymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  myocardium of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  myocardium of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased contractility  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  mesonephric nephron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of neurofibroma .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of adult lifespan .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  positive regulation of growth rate .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  fat cell  ( trunk musculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  fat cell  ( vertebral column )  .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  fat cell  ( pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  female organism of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trunk musculature of adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  caudal fin of adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hypodermis of adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  vertebral column of adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity of adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity of fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity of fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  regular sleep pattern  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of circadian sleep / wake cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus of lateral region  ( peptide hormone secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( insulin secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  karyomere membrane fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  lobate  ( of )  blastomere of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  life span  ( of )  blastomere of karyomere .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blastomere of karyomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blastomere of karyomere .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  cell of pronucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blastodisc .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of rhabdomyoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of astrocytoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of glioblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  formation of primary germ layer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primary germ layer .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  telencephalon of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  telencephalon of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  microglial cell activation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  phototransduction ,  visible light .
abnormal ( ly )  increased sensitivity to irradiation  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  iris .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  lens capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  low brightness  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  sinuous  ( of )  retina of artery .
abnormal ( ly )  spotted  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium  ( pigmented epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  pigmented epithelial cell  ( retinal inner plexiform layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  low brightness  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to oxidative stress .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  sulfation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  chondrocyte of fibrillar collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mrna export from nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton of chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of chondroblast  ( chondroblast of nuclear pore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  smooth  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  intestine of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  retina of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  optic tectum of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  muscle of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  hepatocyte  ( liver )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pelvic fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  mesoderm pelvic fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pelvic fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge pelvic fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  time  ( of )  thymus of precursor t - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma / leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  peroxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of hepatocellular adenoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of hepatocellular carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  mixed  ( of )  liver of hepatocellular adenoma .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephros of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  caudal hypothalamic zone of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  habenular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mid diencephalic organizer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  olfactory pit .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  adenohypophyseal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  epibranchial placode .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  germ line cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  life span  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  spermatogonial cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  male organism of intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion  ( glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk of dorsal region  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  on - bipolar cell of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  on - bipolar cell of dendritic tuft .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  roof plate spinal cord region .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  collateral sprouting in absence of injury .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  mip motor neuron of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  rop motor neuron of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  cap motoneuron of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rop motor neuron of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  notochord cell vacuolation .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  notochord of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal system morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  moderate intensity  ( of )  notochord of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  mineralized  ( of )  bone tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  retina of cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus  ( smooth muscle myoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cell migration involved in heart jogging .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  heart rudiment of endocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  heart rudiment of myocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  bmp signaling pathway involved in heart jogging .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  epidermal cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  epidermal cell of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  epidermal cell of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  epidermal cell of keratin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  membrane potential  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of mitochondrial inner membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cellular calcium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( mauthner neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cholinergic neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cholinergic neuron of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cellular triglyceride homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  erk1 and erk2 cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  spinal cord of white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  schwann cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  habituation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  oligodendrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  posterior lateral line of immature schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  central nervous system of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pigment cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  lateral larval melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  erk1 and erk2 cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  spinal cord of glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( immature schwann cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  brain of glioma .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  optic chiasm of glioma .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  trunk of nerve sheath tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal system morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  notochord cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart valve development .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  central nervous system morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rhombomere 4 morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ectodermal placode development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  anterior macula  ( auditory receptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  unstratified  ( of )  anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  reticular formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  solid lens vesicle  ( immature eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  protoneuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hindbrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  forebrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  neuron of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  floor plate of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  floor plate of cell  ( floor plate of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hypochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  hypochord of cell  ( hypochord of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacking processual parts  ( of )  cell cycle  ( cytokinesis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  whole organism of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  lacking processual parts  ( of )  cell cycle  ( dna replication )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  interneuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hindbrain commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cap motoneuron of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  motor neuron of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  positive regulation of lipid catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  positive regulation of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  preoptic area  ( neurosecretory neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  preoptic area  ( neurosecretory neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  neurohypophysis  ( neurosecretory neuron of axon terminus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neurohypophysis of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  yellow  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  greasy  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  ballooning  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  somitogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  lacking processual parts  ( of )  somitogenesis  ( cell migration )  .
abnormal ( ly )  erose  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  porous  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  atrium  ( endocardium of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased adhesivity  ( of )  endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  erose  ( of )  dorsal fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  notch signaling involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell adhesion involved in heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular adhesivity  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endocardial cushion to mesenchymal transition involved in heart valve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  ventral fin fold  ( blood cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  atrial endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ventral fin fold of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  macrophage of phagocytic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  nmda glutamate receptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of nmda receptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cellular response to nutrient levels .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hepatic duct development .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  gall bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  extrapancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  dorsal / ventral pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  symplectic .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( skeletal muscle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  intestine of smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage of lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  notochord of notochord inner cell  ( notochord inner cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  discontinuous  ( of )  vertebral column of bone development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  vertebral column of bone development .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  notochord  ( anatomical space )  .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  notochord inner cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  notochord of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decondensed  ( of )  notochord of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  notochord inner cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  notochord inner cell of cytoplasm  ( notochord inner cell of intermediate filament )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord inner cell of intermediate filament .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  notochord of anatomical space .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuron of mitochondrion localization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  chondrocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  chondrocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  palate of skeletal tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  notochord of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  g protein - coupled adenosine receptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pancreas  ( pancreatic b cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pancreas of tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  triglyceride homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  entopterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  transparent  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gold iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  silver iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  iris stroma of silver iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  anal fin of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  discontinuous  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  gold iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  silver iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  color pattern  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  color pattern  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  color pattern  ( of )  melanophore stripe of dorsal - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  iris stroma of silver iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pancreas  ( pancreatic d cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pancreas  ( pancreatic a cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  muscle of myofibril  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  radial glial cell division in pallium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  smad protein signal transduction .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  heart  ( heart )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  thymus  ( lymphocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  dorsal aorta  ( posterior cardinal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  head of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  dorsal fin of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  eye of sarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of sarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  kidney of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spleen of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kidney of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spleen of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kidney of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spleen of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kidney of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( compact layer of ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  splayed  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  ventricular epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ventricular epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  intestinal mucosa .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  outer limiting membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  scarred  ( of )  cardiac muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  intestinal lamina propria mucosa of adenocarcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  well differentiated  ( of )  intestinal lamina propria mucosa of adenocarcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  intestinal lamina propria mucosa of small cell carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  exserted  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  pectoral fin  ( trunk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  primitive erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( caudal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( cranial blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( caudal fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( pectoral fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( pelvic fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cranial vasculature  ( blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trunk vasculature  ( blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( endothelial cell of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  pathological  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  pathological  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  liver of connective tissue replacement involved in inflammatory response wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  prominent  ( of )  hepatocyte of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of hepatic tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  common bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of spindle cell sarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  motor neuron of synaptic transmission ,  glycinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  light adaption .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  granulocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  mesenchyme of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  mesenchyme of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  hepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  hepatocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hepatocyte of cytoplasm  ( hepatocyte of vacuole )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hepatocyte of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hepatocyte of hepatocellular carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  telencephalon cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  immature eye of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  vertebra of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eye of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  eye of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  esophageal epithelium of squamous epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  esophageal epithelium of squamous epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  esophageal epithelium of squamous epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( pancreatic b cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  portion of connective tissue  ( liver )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of cholangiocarcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  cholangiocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  liver of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  histone methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pineal complex  ( photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer  ( green sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer  ( red sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  blue sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  optic vesicle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  optic vesicle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  optic vesicle  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  heart  ( heart of mitochondrion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  heart of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  heart of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cerebellum morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cerebellum development .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum  ( vascular lymphangioblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum  ( vascular lymphangioblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast  ( horizontal myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  neutrophil progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  presumptive ectoderm of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  ectoderm of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  inflated  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  afferent neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  whole organism of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  post - vent region of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  post - vent region of naevus .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cranial blood vessel of pericyte .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  cranial blood vessel of pericyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic vesicle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  optic vesicle of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  microglia development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  brain of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  macrophage activation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  ball of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  ball of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ball of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  ball of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  neutrophil  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  slow muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( skeletal muscle cell of neuromuscular junction of skeletal muscle fiber )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  myotome of neuromuscular junction of skeletal muscle fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  neutrophil of pseudopodium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  neutrophil of uropod retraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neutrophil of pseudopodium organization .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  mitochondrial electron transport ,  nadh to ubiquinone .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  mitochondrial electron transport ,  ubiquinol to cytochrome c .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  muscle of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial nerve of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranium of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  facial ganglion of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterior lateral line ganglion of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vagal ganglion of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  otic placode formation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( otic placode )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  posterior intestine epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased object quality  ( of )  whole organism of sarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased object quality  ( of )  whole organism of nephroblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  myeloid cell of kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  melanin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased pigmentation  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  whole organism of larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite  ( muscle pioneer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite  ( slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  somite of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  somite  ( slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  visual behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mechanosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  response to absence of light .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  thermosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  mechanosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  thermosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal fasciculus of axon ensheathment in central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  activation of mapkk activity .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  visual behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  response to absence of light .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( secondary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  notochord of chordoma .
abnormal ( ly )  prominent  ( of )  notochord of rough endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  prominent  ( of )  notochord of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  biscupidate  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  cephalic musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk musculature of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region  ( mesoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  medial floor plate of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pronephros )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  embryonic organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  neural tube of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch  ( pharyngeal arch of cranial neural crest cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased cellular motility  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myeloid cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased pigmentation  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  optic chiasm .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  optic chiasm .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  optic nerve head .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  optic nerve head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased object quality  ( of )  eye of glioma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased object quality  ( of )  visual system of glioma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased object quality  ( of )  visual system of primitive neurectodermal tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  inflammatory response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  parachordal vessel of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  predisplaced growth  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  parachordal vessel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  facial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  vagal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  cranial ganglion of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  vagal ganglion of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  cranial ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  facial ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  vagal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  cranial ganglion of organelle .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  cranial ganglion of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  ruffled  ( of )  cranial ganglion of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  cranial ganglion of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  cranial ganglion of neuronal cell body membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  cranial ganglion of neuronal cell body membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  presumptive bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  cranial ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  cranial ganglion of axolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  vagal ganglion of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  anatomical system .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( ventricular myocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  hypophyseal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  hypophyseal capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neurohypophysis of vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  integument of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  integument of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  integument of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  integument of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  pectoral fin of integument  ( pectoral fin cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  integument of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  polyploid  ( of )  integument of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  integument of chromosome organization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  anterolateral orientation  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  precaudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  rib .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  swim bladder development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  vertebra  ( hemal arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  vertebra  ( neural arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal fin pterygiophore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anal fin pterygiophore .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch  ( pharyngeal pouch of mesodermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( head of mesodermal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of ectodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  head of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  trunk of artery .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  trunk of vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  basilar artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of protein localization to cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  melanocyte of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  melanocyte of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  parapineal organ of determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  oligodendrocyte  ( oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of neurofibrillary tangle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of neurofibrillary tangle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal aorta  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal artery  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal vein plexus  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  motor neuron of neuron projection  ( motor neuron of synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( glioblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hindbrain of lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural tube closure .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  oral cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( trunk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  secondary islet of endocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pancreas  ( secondary islet )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle of ventricular cardiac myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  apoptotic cell clearance .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  epidermal cell of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  microglia development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  liver of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  fertilized egg of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  fertilized egg of micropyle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  oocyte stage i of mitochondrial cloud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage iii of micropylar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oocyte of mitochondrial cloud .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  neural tube of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of lipid oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spinal cord of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of nuclear fragmentation involved in apoptotic nuclear change .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  vascular endothelium of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel endothelial cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  endothelial to hematopoietic transition .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus of posterior side  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  motor neuron of node of ranvier .
abnormal ( ly )  looseness  ( of )  motor neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  renal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  renal tubule of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  pronephric tubule of brush border epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  pronephric tubule of brush border epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hepatocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  thoracic duct of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thoracic duct of lymphangiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lymphatic system of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart of heart process .
abnormal ( ly )  elliptic  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  unbranched  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lymphatic system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  male sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  macrophage of response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  melanosome localization .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  otic vesicle of otolith tethering .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane of glomerular endothelium fenestra .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  membrane depolarization during cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  glomerular capillary  ( glomerular capillary )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  podocyte  ( pronephric glomerulus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding into  ( of )  podocyte of apical plasma membrane  ( pronephric capsular space )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of slit diaphragm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  podocyte of slit diaphragm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glucose import in response to insulin stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sensory neuron of calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle progenitor cell migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  endoderm of antero - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  endoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sensory perception of chemical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  dorsal fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  acute angle to  ( of )  head  ( trunk of ventral surface )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  regeneration epithelium  ( regeneration epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  blastemal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  blastema of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased intensity  ( of )  response to cadmium ion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( ethmoid cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural crest cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  growth quality of occurrent  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  germ cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  regular duration  ( of )  erythrocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  hydrogen peroxide biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hydrogen peroxide biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( atrium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  pigment granule aggregation in cell center .
abnormal ( ly )  scalloped  ( of )  evl of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  evl of blastoderm cell  ( evl of blastoderm cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  evl of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  involution involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  tether cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  gliogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  mrna transcription by rna polymerase ii .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  embryonic heart tube development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cytokine production .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  well differentiated  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  well differentiated  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  inflammatory response to antigenic stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer  ( muller cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( retinal ganglion cell of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  horizontal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  amacrine cell of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  rhombomere of compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of aster .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  internal yolk syncytial layer of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  columnar  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gill of vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gill of ncc ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  gill filament of ncc ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( ncc ionocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric duct of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intestine of establishment of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regenerating fin of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decondensed  ( of )  somite of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of focal adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  osteoblast of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  blastema of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pectoral fin bud of regulation of smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge pectoral fin bud of embryonic pectoral fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fin fold pectoral fin bud of embryonic pectoral fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otic epithelium of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  frequency  ( of )  optic tectum of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  rhythm quality  ( of )  optic tectum of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of cellular response to heat .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of regulation of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  hatching .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased contractility  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  low brightness  ( of )  whole organism of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  whole organism of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  ventral larval melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  levator arcus palatini .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  dilatator operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  basal plate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  basal plate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  head of skeletal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  heart valve .
abnormal ( ly )  photosensitive  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lens placode .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  lens placode .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eye of pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  liver  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral crista primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior crista primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior crista primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  semi - fertile  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  unpigmented  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  head of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  endocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric duct of ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  right angle to  ( of )  trabecula cranii  ( ethmoid cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  post - vent region of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  somite of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  tail bud of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  myotome of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( skeletal muscle cell of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  caudal fin lower lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fluid flow  ( of )  ventricular system of cerebral spinal fluid .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric podocyte  ( pronephric podocyte of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  floor plate spinal cord region of ventral - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  diencephalon of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  midbrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  midbrain - hindbrain boundary morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  enteric nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  superior cervical ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  sympathetic nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  floor plate development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( floor plate )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain of posterior region  ( floor plate )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  forebrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  olfactory placode  ( olfactory placode )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventral fin fold of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  pronephric tubule of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  proctodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  kidney morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  hindbrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  nervous system of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  brain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  spinal cord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  texture  ( of )  head of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  fin of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( skeletal muscle cell of myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  liver of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  striated  ( of )  muscle cell of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  hyoid muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  interhyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  striated  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  striated  ( of )  muscle cell of striated muscle myosin thick filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  neurocranium of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region of yolk larval melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  caudal fin of ventral side .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrial cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  determination of ventral identity .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  post - vent region of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  trunk of notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( notochord of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  sharp  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  spinal cord of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  nervous system of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  trunk of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  post - vent region of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  cell  ( caudal fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  trunk of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell proliferation in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  segment polarity determination .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  negative regulation of transcription by rna polymerase ii .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter in response to stress .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter in response to stress .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  desmosome assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epidermal cell of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  epidermal cell of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  atrioventricular valve development .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  atrioventricular ring .
abnormal ( ly )  contractility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  pericardial cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  gliogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  segmental plate of medial - lateral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epiblast of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epiblast of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epiblast of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of resting membrane potential .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephros of pronephric nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric tubule of establishment of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  renal filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric proximal tubule morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glomerular visceral epithelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased position  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  blood island of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  caudal fin of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased depth  ( of )  anterior neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephros of renal absorption .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell  ( eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell  ( eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of apical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of apical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of establishment of apical / basal cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  excretion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pronephric duct of endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of endocytic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephros of endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephros of endocytic recycling .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  pronephric duct of endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of endocytic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephros of renal absorption .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  macrophage activation involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  chemoattractant activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  blood island of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  whole organism of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased cellular motility  ( of )  trunk of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  photoreceptor cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  camera - type eye photoreceptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  blood coagulation ,  fibrin clot formation .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular adhesivity  ( of )  thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intestine  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  permeability  ( of )  gut epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gut epithelium of brush border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hypoblast of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thymus of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  thymus of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  camera - type eye photoreceptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal rod cell of inclusion body .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( posterior lateral line ganglion of neuron projection terminus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  transient  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  utricle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  retina of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  trunk of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  whole organism of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  frequency  ( of )  cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myoblast fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  membrane repolarization during cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  artery development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hindbrain interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  mauthner neuron of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  melanosome assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of epithelial cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  oblong  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of ecto - epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of generation of neurons .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  median fin fold of laminin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  median fin fold of epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of ecto - epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cilium organization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glial cell of apoptotic cell clearance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  median fin fold of laminin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  median fin fold of epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of ecto - epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glial cell of response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum  ( ecto - epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  pectoral fin fold of ecto - epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  telencephalon development .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of neuron projection morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventricular zone of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  axis of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of blood vessel endothelial cell  ( blood vessel endothelial cell of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of asymmetric cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  visceral fat .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  visceral fat of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  visceral fat of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  visceral fat of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  visceral fat of collagen fibril organization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  fat cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  trunk of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct development .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  visceral fat of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hypochord of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  ventricular zone of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventricular zone of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  fibrillary  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of central region  ( pancreatic acinar cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  pancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  forebrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  peripheral nervous system  ( myelinating schwann cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  nervous system  ( glioblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  maturity  ( of )  head of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of endochondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  caudal tuberculum of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  melanocyte of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  melanocyte of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  defense response to virus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  receptor signaling pathway via jak - stat .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  receptor signaling pathway via jak - stat .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  muller cell of receptor signaling pathway via jak - stat .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ovarian follicle rupture .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ovulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  multi - organism reproductive process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  oocyte stage v .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  oocyte stage v .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  oocyte stage v .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retina of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lens of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  hypothalamus of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hypothalamus of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  thalamus of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hypothalamus of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hypothalamus of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  tooth 5v .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  tooth 4v .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  tooth 3v .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  replacement tooth 4v .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  replacement tooth 4v .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric proximal tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( corpuscles of stannius )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( pronephric proximal straight tubule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  straight  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  autophagosome maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  tooth placode .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  eye of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  eye of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  eye of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  polyploid  ( of )  eye of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  response to gravity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain interneuron of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  complexity  ( of )  mauthner neuron of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mauthner neuron of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  sclerotome .
abnormal ( ly )  cuneate  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  rotated  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line of schwann cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelination of posterior lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelination of posterior lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  lipid storage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  autophagosome maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  tooth 5v .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  primary dental epithelium  ( tooth placode )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retina of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelination of posterior lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  autophagosome maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  muller cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  heart of blood plasma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line of peripheral nervous system myelin formation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  posterior lateral line of peripheral nervous system axon ensheathment .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line of schwann cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line of peripheral nervous system axon ensheathment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hepatocyte of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  hepatocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of microvesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cell - cell adhesion involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hatching gland .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hindbrain of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spinal cord of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised laterally  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  axial hypoblast of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart rudiment formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric nephron tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  heart of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  atrium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pectoral fin of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  olfactory placode development .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain of dorsal region  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  hindbrain of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  hindbrain of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  midbrain of dorsal region  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neural tube of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  alar plate midbrain region  ( basal plate midbrain region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hindbrain interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart rudiment formation .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  olfactory placode formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  olfactory placode development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  floor plate development .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  medial floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  protein kinase b signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  cellularity  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  forebrain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  eye of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  liver of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  integrin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric proximal tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otic vesicle of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otic vesicle of hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of neuroblast fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of hair cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion  ( statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion  ( statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  atp biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of mitochondrial chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  chondrocyte hypertrophy .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  basihyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( palatoquadrate cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of polysome .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  head of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of cytosolic ribosome .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  liver of organ growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pancreas of organ growth .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  optic tectum of white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  optic tectum of white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  rhombic lip of white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  rhombic lip of white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuron of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cardioblast cell midline fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  head of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  subintestinal vein of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  subintestinal vein of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  hepatic sinusoid .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  whole organism of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  whole organism of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hepatic sinusoid of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  central vein of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endocardium development .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otic vesicle of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of neuroblast fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of neuroblast fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion  ( statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion  ( statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  thymus of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  phagocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otic vesicle of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  podocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  barbel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranium of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  curled  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuroblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion  ( statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of precursor t - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma / leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of precursor t - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma / leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell migration involved in heart formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuroblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  gill filament .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  gill filament of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  gill filament of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  gill filament of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage  ( ceratobranchial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage  ( ceratobranchial 3 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage  ( ceratobranchial 4 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage  ( ceratobranchial 5 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  in contact with  ( of )  dorsal aorta of lateral region  ( common cardinal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  in contact with  ( of )  dorsal aorta of lateral region  ( primary head sinus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  trunk of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  spinal nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  spinal nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hepatocyte apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  glomerular filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  renal glomerular capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  trunk of neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  post - vent region of neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cortisol secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal neural layer of sensory epithelium regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage  ( ceratobranchial 2 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage  ( ceratobranchial 2 cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal neural layer of sensory epithelium regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage  ( ceratobranchial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric nephron tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  pronephros of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  anterior / posterior pattern specification involved in pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  glomerular visceral epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( pronephric podocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  pronephros of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  pronephric podocyte  ( pronephric podocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  embryonic organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( semicircular canal )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( common myeloid progenitor )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  unpigmented  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of pronephric nephron tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalon of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  glomerular visceral epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( pronephric podocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  locus coeruleus of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of norepinephrine secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  glomerular visceral epithelial cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus  ( pronephric podocyte of slit diaphragm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus  ( pronephric glomerular capillary )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  stem cell population maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  inner ear development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( somatic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart valve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  heart valve .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  optic chiasma development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hindbrain neural tube of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephros of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  noradrenergic neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sympathetic ganglion development .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  superior cervical ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  noradrenergic neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventricular zone of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  mrna transcription .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myeloblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  amino - acid betaine transport .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  noradrenergic neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trochlear motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  oculomotor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of blood coagulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of circulating fibrinogen levels .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  heart of blood coagulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood coagulation ,  fibrin clot formation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  caudal fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  locus coeruleus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  locus ceruleus development .
abnormal ( ly )  hydrocephalic  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  forebrain of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  diencephalic white matter  ( tract of the postoptic commissure )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus synencephalon  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  neutrophil  ( trunk of dorsal region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  forebrain regionalization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  forebrain of antero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  forebrain of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  retina of ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  retina of ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retina of ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  retina of ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  retina of ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina vasculature development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retina vasculature development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  subintestinal vein of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood coagulation ,  fibrin clot formation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood coagulation ,  fibrin clot formation .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood coagulation ,  fibrin clot formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endothelial cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  primitive erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  nucleus of the caudal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood island of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  blood island of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  atrium of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  fluid flow rate  ( of )  atrioventricular valve of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  ventral trunk neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  eye  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( leukocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  head of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  colorless  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventral trunk neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mauthner neuron of synaptic transmission ,  glycinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mauthner neuron of synaptic transmission ,  glycinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  head mesenchyme of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  neural keel of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  head of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  head of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  trunk of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  immature eye of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain of cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  nucleus of the caudal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased strength  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  anatomical space .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  whole organism of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  liver of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hepatocyte of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hepatocyte of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( leukocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( leukocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficiency  ( of )  hepatocyte of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver of ito cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsolateral trunk neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  rhythm quality  ( of )  cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  circadian rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  skeletal muscle of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  caudal fin of developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  lepidotrichium segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  thyroid gland development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypocretin - secreting neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  del of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  del of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  optokinetic behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  optokinetic behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  vestibular reflex .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  preoptic area of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  preoptic area of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  fin of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hypothalamus of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  paraventricular organ of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  tail bud of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  head of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic vesicle of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nitric oxide production involved in inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endothelial to hematopoietic transition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood vessel endothelium of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  nitric oxide production involved in inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  renal system  ( podocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of glutamatergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of outer dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  spinal cord of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypophysis of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regenerating fin of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  arrhythmic  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer  ( retinal rod cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast support cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  peripheral nervous system axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  epidermis of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  mesenchyme of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  non - degenerate  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  crowded  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  post - vent region of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  renal glomerulus of slit diaphragm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane of slit diaphragm .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  median fin .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  osteoblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein n - linked glycosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( neuronal stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( astrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of astrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  brain of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion  ( motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  facial ganglion  ( motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  vagal ganglion  ( motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cerebellum of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  carbohydrate metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cellular amino acid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fatty acid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cerebellum of cell proliferation in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior intestine of enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestine of enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( posterior pancreatic bud )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pancreatic bud  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  senescent  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  vertebra of bone development .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 replacement  tooth of odontogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  sporadic  ( of )  tooth replacement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  tooth replacement .
abnormal ( ly )  dissociated from  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 replacement  tooth  ( pharyngeal arch 7 of blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of rate  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 replacement  tooth of odontogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of obsolete cell .
abnormal ( ly )  curvature  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  leukocyte of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  leukocyte of endomembrane system .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  leukocyte of endomembrane system .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cerebellum of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cerebellum of cell proliferation in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  golgi vesicle transport .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  vagal neural crest  ( hyoid neural crest )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( otic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intestine of chordoma .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  vertebra of chordoma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hemoglobin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  endocardium  ( myocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  semicircular canal development .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment of blood - brain barrier .
abnormal ( ly )  porous  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( hindbrain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  semicircular canal of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( cleithrum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( opercle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( neuronal stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( astrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  hindbrain of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  liver of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intestine of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  leukocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of exit from mitosis .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  positive regulation of production of mirnas involved in gene silencing by mirna .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  median fin fold of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge median fin fold of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  trunk musculature of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  trunk musculature of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cerebellar purkinje cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( neuronal stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( astrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  brain of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  brain of astrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  brain of neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  whole organism of ventral side .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pancreas of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pancreas of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  semicircular canal development .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  somite of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pectoral fin fold of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  median fin fold of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  eye of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  eye of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of glioma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  eye of retinoblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otic vesicle of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  lateral crista  ( lateral crista of kinocilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( ependymal cell of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endothelial to hematopoietic transition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of detection of nodal flow .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood cell  ( sinus venosus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  monoamine oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hindbrain of central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of endothelial tip cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  endothelial cell of filamentous actin  ( primordial hindbrain channel of dorsal region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sympathetic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  elliptic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hepatic stellate cell activation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ito cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  glycolytic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oxidative phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  aerobic respiration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  protein oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled proton transport .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of mitochondrial chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of mitochondrial chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  neural tube of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  bile acid secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  hepatocyte of intracellular canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of intracellular canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  hepatocyte of intracellular canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of glycogen granule .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  liver of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  basilar artery of wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mid cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of generation of neurons .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  absence due to degeneration  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor disc membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of mitotic cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  post - vent region of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  lateral crista  ( lateral crista of kinocilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( ependymal cell of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of mitochondrial respirasome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of mitochondrial respirasome .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  brain of ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased circumference  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  caudal fin of collagen network .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epithelium of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitochondrial fission .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  spinal cord of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  motor neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  motor neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of bleb assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  angioblast cell migration from lateral mesoderm to midline .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blood of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  blood of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  kidney of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  kidney of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  kidney of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of common myeloid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  head kidney of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  head kidney of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  head kidney of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of ribosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  activation of nf - kappab - inducing kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  brain of ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  regenerating fin of fibrillar collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regenerating fin of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood of common myeloid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  caudal fin of collagen network .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  epithelium of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  regenerating fin of fibrillar collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neutrophil of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion  ( glossopharyngeal ganglion of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  facial ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vagal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion of axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  vagal ganglion of fasciculation of sensory neuron axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  forebrain of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  midbrain of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  growth quality of occurrent  ( of )  pancreas of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pancreas of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  subintestinal vein of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  histone h3 - k9 acetylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  histone h3 - k27 acetylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  respiratory gaseous exchange by respiratory system .
abnormal ( ly )  collagenous  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  muscle cell of mitochondrial outer membrane  ( muscle cell of mitochondrial inner membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle cell of mitochondrial matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  muscle cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  muscle cell of sarcoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  muscle cell of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  muscle cell of sarcomere  ( muscle cell of sarcomere )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle cell of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  muscle cell of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  linear  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  heart tube of myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  mesenchyme pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mesenchyme pectoral fin of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  upturned  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  testis of spermatid .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  testis of sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epidermal cell of cell aggregation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of determination of left / right asymmetry in lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  sterile  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  sertoli cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  gonad of apoptotic chromosome condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spermatocyte of apoptotic chromosome condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin  ( vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin  ( artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regenerating fin of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  sterile  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  oocyte stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  oocyte stage iii .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  oocyte of granular component .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  oocyte of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  oocyte of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  oocyte of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  testis of oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  testis of germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  central nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  heart  ( atrioventricular valve )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb of granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  uncoordinated  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mobility  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  slit diaphragm assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding into  ( of )  renal glomerulus of microvillus  ( renal capsular space )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium  ( retina )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retina of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  outer limiting membrane of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  outer limiting membrane of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  caudal vein of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hemangioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  female sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  female sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  male sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  male sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fecundity  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrial cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  coiling  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron projection development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fluorescence  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  low saturation  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  perichondrium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephros of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  cloaca .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cloaca of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disconnected  ( of )  cloaca of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  curled  ( of )  caudal fin of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  caudal fin of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb of granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain vasculature of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellum of vascular associated smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intracellular cholesterol transport .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glial cell of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  peripheral neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  purkinje cell layer corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinotectal tract .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  central nervous system of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  peripheral neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  peripheral neuron of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  peripheral neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  myotome of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  motor neuron of neuronal cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  myotome of neuromuscular junction of skeletal muscle fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of synaptic transmission ,  cholinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  myotome of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myotome of regulation of synaptic transmission ,  cholinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  vasodilation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial blood vessel of artery morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  metencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cell migration involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  caudal division of the internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal division of the internal carotid artery of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  internal carotid artery of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  aortic arch 1 of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  internal carotid artery of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 1 of cell migration involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  aortic arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch 1 of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  caudal division of the internal carotid artery of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  caudal division of the internal carotid artery of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  aortic arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  aortic arch 1 of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  internal carotid artery of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  caudal division of the internal carotid artery of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  aortic arch 1 of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  aortic arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  trunk of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord neural tube of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of ventral region  ( spinal cord of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  oligodendrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  spinal cord of central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  spinal cord of axon ensheathment in central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of axon ensheathment in central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myotome of muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myotome of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  swim bladder development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor cell outer segment organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  posterior pronephric duct  ( posterior pronephric duct of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal cone cell  ( retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor disc membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic system of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  blood island of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myeloid cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myeloid cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement ,  spinal reflex action .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly anterioralized  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium  ( posterior lateral line primordium of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior region  ( posterior lateral line primordium of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  neuromast of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment of epithelial cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rhombomere 4 morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of cell proliferation in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( mauthner neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rhombomere 3 morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  leukocyte  ( brain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fragility  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( brain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor cell cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  renal system of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  preoptic area .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  microglial cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic tectum of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  microglial cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  microglial cell of phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  microglial cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  macrophage of lysosome  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  macrophage of myeloid leukocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  macrophage of myeloid leukocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  fragile  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  motor neuron of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreatic d cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  somatostatin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retina of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  autophagosome assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  post - vent region of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cell of autophagosome assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  epidermis of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  epidermis of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  peridermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disassembled  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  epidermis of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epidermis of epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  peridermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacking processual parts  ( of )  thigmotaxis  ( regulation of twitch skeletal muscle contraction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  having decreased processual parts  ( of )  thigmotaxis  ( relaxation of skeletal muscle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ciliated cell of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  forerunner cell group of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forerunner cell group of obsolete cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  evl of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forerunner cell group of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cell of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  mesoderm of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  determination of left / right asymmetry in lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased acidity  ( of )  forerunner cell group of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of basal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron of olfactory bulb development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of non - motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  hollow  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  determination of pancreatic left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  centrosome duplication .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  epithalamus of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  cloaca of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lymphoid progenitor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myeloid progenitor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thymus of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell of myeloid progenitor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  female organism of male gamete generation .
abnormal ( ly )  male  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ovary of granulosa cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  female organism  ( sperm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  female organism  ( spermatogonium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  oocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  female organism  ( spermatocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of melanin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  oocyte stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  oocyte stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  oocyte stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  oocyte stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  orbit .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  supraorbital bone  ( orbit )  .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  supraorbital bone of ventral margin .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  supraorbital bone .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  post - vent region of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk musculature of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  skeletal muscle of muscle tendon junction  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  pathological  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk musculature of cytoplasmic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium  ( pronephric duct of outer dynein arm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric duct of outer dynein arm assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otolith organ .
abnormal ( ly )  activation quality  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  mauthner neuron  ( mauthner neuron of ampa glutamate receptor complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  mauthner neuron of ampa selective glutamate receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of ampa glutamate receptor clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  mauthner neuron of ampa selective glutamate receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  mauthner neuron of ampa selective glutamate receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  motor nucleus of vagal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  brain of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of neuronal cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  convolute  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of caveola .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  caveola assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle of erk1 and erk2 cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of t - tubule organization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell of caveola )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  definitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of cytoplasmic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  non neural ectoderm of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  whole organism of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal / ventral pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  wnt signaling pathway involved in dorsal / ventral axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  whole organism of animal - vegetal axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephros of cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fourth ventricle of cerebrospinal fluid circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  ventral aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  protein poly - adp - ribosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  posterior macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  far from  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  splayed  ( of )  hair cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  common cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disconnected  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neutrophil of granular vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  brain of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell of mitotic s phase .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell of myeloid leukocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  rostral blood island of myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell  ( rostral blood island )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dna damage response ,  detection of dna damage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  gut of determination of digestive tract left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  heart rudiment of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart tube of heart jogging .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  habenula of determination of left / right asymmetry in diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  habenula of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart of heart looping .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart rudiment of determination of heart left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cilium movement involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  embryonic heart tube left / right pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  brain of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreatic centroacinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  secondary islet of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  whole organism of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neural crest of melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral line of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranium of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epibranchial cartilage of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranium of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vagal neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral line of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  perichondrium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural plate border .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  microvillous olfactory receptor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  perichondrium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  esophageal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  neuromast hair cell  ( neuromast hair cell of stereocilium bundle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  inner ear of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  intestine of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  eye of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  inner ear of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of pigmented epithelial cell  ( retinal outer nuclear layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  lens of posterior surface .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pigmented epithelial cell of inclusion body .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  primitive erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  positive regulation of receptor signaling pathway via jak - stat .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thymus of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  common myeloid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chloride transport .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  hair cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of membrane depolarization during action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hair cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuron of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  photoreceptor cell  ( photoreceptor cell of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina of central region  ( retinal rod cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina of central region  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina of central region  ( photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina of central region  ( photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of cysteine .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  common bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of s - adenosyl - l - methionine .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  liver and biliary system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of homoserine .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  methionine metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  bile  ( liver )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  common bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  protein methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of homocysteine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of serine .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  common bile duct development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of methionine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  primary motor neuron of motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myotome of medial side .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myotome of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of medial side .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( muscle pioneer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  myotome of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  myotome of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  fast muscle cell  ( fast muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased elasticity  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  optic tectum of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of basement membrane organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of retinal ganglion cell axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of basement membrane organization .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  optic tectum of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  hindbrain of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  hindbrain of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  hindbrain of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  integument of vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  muscle of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  muscle cell of sarcoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  muscle cell of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myotome of compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  vertical myoseptum of compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic system of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic system of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thymus of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( neural crest cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  eye of lens .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  eye of lens .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spleen of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pericardium of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  portion of tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  evl of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  evl of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of cytolysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  evl of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  convergent extension .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  whole organism of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastodisc .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  integument of pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  mottled  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  iridophore of pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  preural vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  vertebra 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  precaudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  postcranial axial skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  caudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  bone morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  bone growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  vertebra 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  vertebra 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  vertebra 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  vertebra 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased angle to  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( atrium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  male gamete generation .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  oocyte of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  germ line cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased speed  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly anterioralized  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  anterior / posterior pattern specification involved in pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of retinoic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dendrite morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  habenula of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  interpeduncular nucleus tegmentum of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of neuron projection terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lipoprotein lipase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranial nerve x .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  cranial nerve x .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial skeletal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  copa of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  copa of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  yolk  ( blastodisc )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cytoplasm organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage i of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  fertilized egg of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  yolk of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  variability  ( of )  embryonic cleavage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spemann organizer formation at the embryonic shield .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  notochord of medial - lateral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cortical granule exocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  egg activation .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  fertilized egg of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mesoderm formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  yolk  ( blastoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  notochord of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina  ( eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retina of peripheral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muller cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muller cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  eye of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  forebrain of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased position  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  head of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of transcription of nucleolar large rrna by rna polymerase i .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  nucleolar chromatin organization .
abnormal ( ly )  curved caudal  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mrna splicing ,  via spliceosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  anterior pancreatic bud of type b pancreatic cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  primary islet  ( pancreatic b cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oviposition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  thyroxine 5' - deiodinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  thyroxine 5' - deiodinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal photoreceptor layer of green sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal photoreceptor layer of blue sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal photoreceptor layer of red sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal photoreceptor layer of uv sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  nervous system of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  lethargic  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  endothelial cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  damage  ( of )  trunk musculature of membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myotome of skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  testis of germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  male gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  unlumenized  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  immature gonad of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  xanthoblast of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  melanoblast of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  lens of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lens of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  male sex differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  female sex differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  gonad primordium  ( germ line cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thymus of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hematopoietic system of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  blood cell of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephros of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( caudal fin of distal region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  caudal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  caudal artery  ( caudal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  skeletal muscle of membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  whole organism of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  histone h3 - k4 methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  furrowed  ( of )  blastodisc .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  cell of mitotic spindle pole .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  cell of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cell of mitotic spindle pole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of non - motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of golgi stack .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment  ( eye photoreceptor cell of lysosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment  ( eye photoreceptor cell of vacuole )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment  ( eye photoreceptor cell of vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor disc membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment  ( eye photoreceptor cell of vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  floor plate  ( floor plate of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( ceratobranchial 5 primary tooth )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hepatoblast of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased curvature  ( of )  intestinal bulb primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  hepatoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  anterior orientation  ( of )  hepatoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hepatoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  mesoderm of apical junction complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hepatocyte cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic digestive tract development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hepatoblast  ( hepatoblast of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of establishment of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  hepatoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hepatoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hepatoblast of regulation of filopodium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hepatocyte cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  hepatoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trabecular layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum  ( commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart of heart looping .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  spinal cord of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  spinal cord of neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  closure of optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  head of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retina of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  central nervous system of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  nonsense - mediated decay .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus  ( pronephric podocyte of podocyte foot )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  macula utricle of vestibular receptor cell stereocilium organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lateral crista of vestibular receptor cell stereocilium organization .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  lateral crista of stereocilium bundle  ( lateral crista )  .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium bundle  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  macula utricle of stereocilium bundle  ( macula utricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  unidirectional  ( of )  neuromast of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line of posterior lateral line neuromast development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line of neuromast hair cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  neuromast of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  hepatoblast of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pancreas of determination of pancreatic left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  liver of determination of liver left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart tube of heart jogging .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  afferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  afferent neuron of axon  ( myelinating schwann cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lateral line of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal cone cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of mitochondrion morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  sister chromatid cohesion .
abnormal ( ly )  rotated  ( of )  cell of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cell of micronucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  cell of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cell of metaphase plate .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  cell of chromosome  ( cell of chromosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  chromosome organization .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  cell of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  mitotic chromosome decondensation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic cytokinesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of embryonic viscerocranium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myotome of striated muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  axial vasculature of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood vasculature  ( blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule  ( pronephric proximal straight tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  renal system process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  common lymphoid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( monocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( erythroblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mitotic spindle midzone assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cerebellar purkinje cell layer structural organization .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  cerebellum of purkinje cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart jogging .
abnormal ( ly )  wholeness  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( extension )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of artery .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( atrium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  straight  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( cardiac ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric duct of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric duct of 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 , 5 - bisphosphate .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric duct of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct  ( pronephric duct of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of ciliary basal body - plasma membrane docking .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of actin filament bundle distribution .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric duct of 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric duct of apical plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  blood coagulation ,  fibrin clot formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of myofilament .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacking processual parts  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle  ( cytokinesis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  polyploid  ( of )  cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacking processual parts  ( of )  cell cycle  ( mitotic cell cycle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  spinal cord of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of cholesterol biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4  ( cranial neural crest )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  digestive system duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  insulin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  insulin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreas of endocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  endoderm of lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of pancreas induction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pancreas induction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  somatostatin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pancreatic bud of endocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  medial facial lymph vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein localization to peroxisome .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment  ( photoreceptor cell of lateral surface )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absence due to degeneration  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absence due to degeneration  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trunk vasculature of dorsal region  ( blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vein of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental artery of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of vascular sprouts  ( neural tube )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trunk vasculature of dorsal region  ( vascular sprouts )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  thoracic duct of lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  swim bladder inflation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  thoracic duct of lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior caudal vein of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otolithic lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel of lymphangiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  parachordal vessel of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel of lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  otolithic lymph vessel of lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of mrna modification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hypocretin - secreting neuron of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cholinergic neuron of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  motor neuron of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of mrna modification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  motor neuron of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac jelly of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle tissue growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle tissue growth .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic growth  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle tissue growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of muscle precursor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  goblet cell of cell maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain vasculature of pericyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain vasculature of vascular smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  brain vasculature of vascular smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pericyte of cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  dorsolateral placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  epibranchial field .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neurogenic field of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  embryonic liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  digestive tract development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharynx development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  female semi - sterile  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iv .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  ovarian follicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iv .
abnormal ( ly )  biological sex  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  testis of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iii .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  copa of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  copa of anterior / posterior axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  copa of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  copa of anterior / posterior axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  planar cell polarity pathway involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  copa of dorsal spinal cord interneuron anterior axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  solid lens vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  somite of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  skeletal muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  muscle of axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myoseptum of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  solid lens vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neurogenic field .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  brain of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  brain of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal periventricular hypothalamus of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage of endocytic recycling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  microglial cell  ( brain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  tectal ventricle of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  glucosylceramidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sphingolipid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  brain of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  microglial cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cns neuron  ( sensu vertebrata )  of inclusion body .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  macrophage  ( tectal ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  thymus of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  microglial cell activation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  brain of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thymus of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  pancreatic a cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primary islet of pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  glucagon secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glucose homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  peripheral neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  t cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mauthner neuron of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon  ( neuron of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eurydendroid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior lateral line of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  poly ( a )  +  mrna export from nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  immature schwann cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  cloaca .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric tubule  ( pronephric tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  chondrocyte of extracellular space .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  chondrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  chondrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endochondral bone of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dermatocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dermatocranium of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial cartilage of chondrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial skeletal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cranial cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  entopterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  transferase activity ,  transferring phosphorus - containing groups .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  embryonic cleavage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  glucosidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  developmental process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  somite rostral / caudal axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of site of double - strand break .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite of posterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of posterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  segmental plate of anterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  post - vent region of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  dna damage checkpoint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hair cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  axis of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  fertilized egg of cortical microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  yolk of animal - vegetal axis .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  fertilized egg of cortical microtubule cytoskeleton  ( fertilized egg of aster )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blastodisc of basal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  oocyte stage ii of pole plasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  oocyte stage i of pole plasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  cone photoresponse recovery .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  myotome of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion  ( statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuroblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic epithelium of basal part of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  otic vesicle of ventro - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  otic vesicle of ventro - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of neuroblast delamination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  asynchronous  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  embryonic morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  iron ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  caudal fin of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  vertebra of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pancreatic acinar gland .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of epithelial cell of pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  protoneuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  protoneuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuromast hair cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hypothalamus of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypothalamus of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of histamine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  gliogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  exocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestine of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morbidity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  head of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  trunk of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  head of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  oral ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of left side  ( ceratohyal cartilage of right side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  trunk of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharynx of endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  intestinal bulb primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hindbrain development .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  intestinal rod of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intestinal bulb primordium of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  terminal schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  motor neuron of axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  motor neuron of axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased circumference  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  cranial vasculature of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk vasculature of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cranial vasculature of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cranial vasculature of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  trunk vasculature of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  amacrine cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  retinal cone cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hair cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hair cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neuromast of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of ciliary tip .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  floor plate  ( floor plate of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum  ( retinal ganglion cell of axon terminus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  gonadotrophin - releasing hormone neuronal migration to the hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hypothalamus gonadotrophin - releasing hormone neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mature b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  pronephros of renal filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of apical plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of establishment of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  somite of junctional membrane complex .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  somite of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite of i band .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  somite of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite of a band .
abnormal ( ly )  oblique orientation  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lens of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuromuscular junction development ,  skeletal muscle fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  lens  ( cell of nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attachment quality  ( of )  somite of muscle cell  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lens of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primary islet of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  caudal artery  ( caudal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  common myeloid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  renal capsular space .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic system of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  thymus of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  thymus of hematopoietic stem cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lymphoid lineage cell migration into thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic system .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thymus primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of apoptotic cell clearance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton of embryonic skeletal joint development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  interhyal - hyosymplectic joint of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( interhyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ceratohyal - interhyal joint of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage  ( interhyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  ceratohyal - interhyal joint of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ceratohyal - interhyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  ceratohyal - interhyal joint of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  interhyal - hyosymplectic joint of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  interhyal - hyosymplectic joint of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  interhyal - hyosymplectic joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cardiac muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hyomandibula .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pronephric tubule  ( pronephric tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  engulfment of apoptotic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  apoptotic cell clearance .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  somite of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  primitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  brain of ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  third ventricle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  third ventricle of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  wholeness  ( of )  third ventricle of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  third ventricle of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  brain of ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  third ventricle of apical plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell action potential involved in contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrium of cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  forebrain of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  forebrain of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  midbrain of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  medulla oblongata .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  midbrain of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  sensory neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  neuron of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  efferent axon development in a lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina of central region  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  lateral crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral line of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  anterior crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retina of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  absence due to degeneration  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hair cell posterior macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  central canal of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of anterograde axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of anterograde axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon terminus  ( retinal ganglion cell of mitochondrion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axonogenesis involved in innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of anterograde trans - synaptic signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of anterograde trans - synaptic signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  germ cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( primordial germ cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  testis  ( germ line cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  unfertilized egg of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  unfertilized egg of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  egg activation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal / ventral pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  unfertilized egg of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  unfertilized egg .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  unfertilized egg of posterior region  ( unfertilized egg of cortical granule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  unfertilized egg of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of protein processing .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac jelly of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  chondrocyte of myosin ii filament .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  chondrocyte of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  map kinase kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  right angle to  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  distance  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( ethmoid cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  atretic  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  lateral line  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hair cell  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood island of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kidney of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cytosolic large ribosomal subunit .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic cup of focal adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  presumptive retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  optic furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  ovate  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  presumptive neural retina of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  optic cup of basal lamina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic fissure of focal adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic cup of anterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  presumptive neural retina .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell motility involved in camera - type eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  optic cup of basal lamina .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity involved in camera - type eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  somite of muscle cell  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  microglia development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pancreas  ( pancreatic b cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  response to glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  nodal signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ovulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased weight  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  postovulatory follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased weight  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iv .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  postovulatory follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  double - strand break repair via alternative nonhomologous end joining .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  double - strand break repair via alternative nonhomologous end joining .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  determination of left / right asymmetry in nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  closure  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endothelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  glutamatergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  anterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  anterior pancreatic bud of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage of supramolecular fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage of supramolecular fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  supramolecular fiber organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  establishment of synaptic specificity at neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cranium  ( ceratobranchial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hindbrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  volume - sensitive chloride channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of kidney epithelium development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric duct of apicolateral plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mrna processing .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  scale of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal fin of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  iridophore  ( dorsal root ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  iridophore  ( pupil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  iridophore  ( trunk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anal fin of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  scale of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  corneal stroma of supramolecular fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  lymph vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lymph vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal lymphatic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  venous endothelial cell migration involved in lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  venous endothelial cell migration involved in lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intersegmental lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lymphatic branchial arch 1 of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  lymph vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otolithic lymph vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  neural tube closure .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( neural tube )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  neural plate of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  closure  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural keel of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  neural keel of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  definitive hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  whole organism of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  facial nerve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus of cranial motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cranial nerve vii of collateral sprouting in absence of injury .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  cranial nerve vii of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus of motor neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial nerve v .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic vesicle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve v .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retina of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric tubule of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pronephric tubule of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  renal capsular space .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrioventricular ring .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mid intestine of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intestinal bulb  ( enteric neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  intestine of electrically responsive cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  mid intestine of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mid intestine of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  mid intestine of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior intestine of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  interstitial cell of cajal differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  phasic smooth muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  mid intestine  ( enteric neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior intestine  ( enteric neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  enteric neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  mid intestine of serotonergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  enteric neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  intestine smooth muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  frequency  ( of )  phasic smooth muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior intestine  ( enteric neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  branchiostegal ray  ( opercle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  head  ( bone tissue )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mid intestine of enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb of enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell migration involved in autonomic nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  vagal ganglion of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  neural crest cell migration involved in autonomic nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gut of enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gut endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  enteric nervous system of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  heart primordium of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  left / right pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  determination of heart left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  white  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blastomere of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular adhesivity  ( of )  early embryonic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blastomere of actomyosin contractile ring  ( blastomere of filamentous actin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastomere of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  early embryonic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  multinucleate  ( of )  early embryonic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blastomere of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of lymphangiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lymphatic endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lymphangiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of lymphangiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of ventricular cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  larval melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  caudal fin of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  inner ear of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  inner ear of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  common cardinal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  common cardinal vein of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  common cardinal vein of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  common cardinal vein of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior cardinal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  visceral fat of fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fat cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absence due to degeneration  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  skeletal muscle of t - tubule  ( skeletal muscle of sarcoplasmic reticulum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephros of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neutrophil progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decondensed  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( cephalic musculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  presumptive cephalic mesoderm of gene expression .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6  ( cranial neural crest )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3  ( chondroblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuroectoderm of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  copula .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5  ( cranial neural crest )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial neural crest of chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3  ( cranial neural crest )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  vasoconstriction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  intestine of peristalsis .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  mid intestine of epithelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  posterior intestine of epithelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  discontinuous  ( of )  intestine of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of invadopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  muscle cell  ( myotome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  muscle cell  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  muscle cell  ( somite border )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  interhyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cephalic musculature of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( pericardial cavity )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  fast muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myotome of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofilament .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myotome of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  cephalic musculature of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk musculature of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of myofilament .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  inferior hyohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cephalic musculature of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestine of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  enterocyte of inclusion body .
abnormal ( ly )  increased height  ( of )  enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  enterocyte of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  columnar  ( of )  enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  enterocyte of secretory granule  ( enterocyte of apical side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gut of enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  epiblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  embryonic skeletal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cap motoneuron of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  head of paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hatching gland cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of synaptic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of synaptic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal / ventral axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuroectoderm of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive mesoderm of ventro - lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive mesoderm of ventro - lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  non neural ectoderm of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neuroectoderm of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  efferent axon development in a lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synaptic ribbon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synaptic ribbon .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of efferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synaptic ribbon  ( neuromast hair cell of synaptic ribbon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell of synaptic ribbon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of afferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  afferent axon development in posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synaptic ribbon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  superior cervical ganglion of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  common bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  gall bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  hepatocyte  ( hepatocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  swim bladder inflation .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell  ( eye photoreceptor cell of vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of protein localization .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell  ( eye photoreceptor cell of vacuole )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neural tube of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 6 of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 5 of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  caudal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of zymogen granule .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of zymogen granule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood island of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hematopoietic system of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of rough endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ribosomal small subunit biogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  choroid plexus fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( mauthner neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  notch signaling involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  parapineal organ  ( parapineal organ of neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  parapineal organ of neuron fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  habenula of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  habenula .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  habenula of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiovascular system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  optic furrow of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hematopoietic system .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  optic furrow of basement membrane disassembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  cardiovascular system .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  locomotor rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of autolysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pineal complex  ( pineal complex of photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pineal complex of photoreceptor cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  angioblast cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vein of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  circadian behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  light phase  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  larval behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pancreas morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  common cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  common cardinal vein of actin filament bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  venous blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  common cardinal vein of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  common cardinal vein of actin filament bundle organization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mid cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  mid cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium  ( melanocyte of melanosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephric duct of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased coordination  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  renal glomerulus of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  retina of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  retina of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  horizontal cell of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  fourth ventricle of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  male mating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  response to pheromone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  male courtship behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  glomerular visceral epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pronephric proximal tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intermediate mesoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  preoptic area of neurosecretory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal tuberculum .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  social behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  response to stress .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  caudal tuberculum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal tuberculum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  preoptic area of neurosecretory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  otic vesicle of ventro - lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of neuroblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of neuroblast delamination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart rudiment formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  secondary heart field specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( atrium of anatomical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  proepicardium development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic tectum of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  embryonic viscerocranium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  head muscle of muscle fiber development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  splanchnocranium of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  energy coupled proton transmembrane transport ,  against electrochemical gradient .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardioblast cell midline fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  far from  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm  ( anterior lateral plate mesoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  roof of mouth development .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  heart primordium  ( heart primordium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  cardiac muscle progenitor cell migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart rudiment formation .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm  ( anterior lateral plate mesoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  polarity  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pancreatic acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  secondary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  secondary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk of intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  caudal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hepatic portal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 cartilage  ( ceratobranchial 5 primary tooth )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  anterior segment eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  odontogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  aqueous humor .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  female sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  tooth 4v .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of response to muscle activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of response to mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to muscle activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cell of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cell of centriole .
abnormal ( ly )  surrounding  ( of )  bone tissue  ( notochord )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  hypural .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  notochord of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  bone tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  dense  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  parhypural .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  collagen fibril organization .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  rib .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  notochord of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord of elastic fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  notochord of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  procollagen - lysine 5 - dioxygenase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  notochord of collagen type i trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  rib .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk of motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  mineralized  ( of )  opercular flap .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventral root .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retina of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  compound organ of mitochondrial chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of mitochondrial chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mitochondrial dna replication .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central nervous system of mitochondrial chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  central nervous system of cellular respiration .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rrna transcription .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  polarity  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cranium of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  preoptic area .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  dorsal aorta of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  cap motoneuron of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  motor neuron of bleb assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  motor neuron of membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal neural layer of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  negative regulation of hh target transcription factor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  purkinje cell of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  purkinje cell of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  del of intracellular .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  del of cytosol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased pigmentation  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mrna destabilization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( nak ionocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( vh ionocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  epidermis  ( somatic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  epidermis of somatic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain of ependymal cell  ( ependymal cell of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrically curved  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ependymal cell of motile cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  vertebral column of skeletal system morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrial matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrial membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrial intermembrane space .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrial matrix  ( skeletal muscle of vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retina of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioural activity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pericardium of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  binucleate  ( of )  cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  spinal cord motor neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic cytokinesis checkpoint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  sensory neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  trigeminal sensory neuron of spinal sensory neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( embryonic structure of nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacking processual parts  ( of )  cytokinesis  ( membrane fission )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  blastoderm of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon microtubule bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cell of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  multinucleate  ( of )  cell .
abnormal ( ly )  opacity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of spinal sensory neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cosa .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle  ( nuclear division )  .
abnormal ( ly )  knobbled  ( of )  cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  spinal cord commissural neuron specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  sensory neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of cardiac neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  epidermis of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  cardiac neural crest  ( otic vesicle of posterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  atrioventricular valve  ( ventriculo bulbo valve )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial cartilage of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cardiac neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( heart )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neural tube of pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrium of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  ventriculo bulbo valve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ventriculo bulbo valve .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  eye of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  skeletal muscle of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of synaptic vesicle exocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of synaptic signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cap motoneuron of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cap motoneuron of synaptic vesicle exocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of regulation of synaptic plasticity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  muscle adaptation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart of alternative mrna splicing ,  via spliceosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  motor nucleus of vagal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ocular blood vessel of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  eye of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  cone photoresponse recovery .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  brain vasculature  ( central artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of establishment of endothelial blood - brain barrier .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  central artery of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  peripheral nervous system  ( dorsal root ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  central artery of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain vasculature  ( central artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  brain vasculature  ( atrioventricular canal )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  gut of distal region  ( enteric neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  enteric nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  enteric nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  enteric nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intestine of peristalsis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gut of neuron neural crest derived .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  gut of neuron neural crest derived .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ectomesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  migratory neural crest of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  bulbous  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  larval melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  eye  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  convergent extension .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  anatomical structure of central side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  erythrocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  anatomical structure of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  inflated  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  microglial cell of lysosome organization .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum of microglial cell  ( microglial cell of phagolysosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of apoptotic cell clearance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  microglial cell of phagolysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  microglial cell of lysosomal protein catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  microglial cell of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hypothalamus of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hypothalamus of mitotic cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal hypothalamic zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  caudal hypothalamic zone of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hypothalamus of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypothalamus of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal hypothalamic zone of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  splanchnocranium of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  post - vent region of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  embryonic heart tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cell migration to the midline involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficiency  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood  ( nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  granulocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  notochord of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  notochord of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  notochord of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  notochord of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  notochord of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  chondrocyte of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  forebrain of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  ictal  ( of )  brain of synaptic signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  supramolecular fiber organization .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus  ( glomerular basement membrane of glomerular endothelium fenestra )  .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  common cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  common cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  common cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  common cardinal vein of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  common cardinal vein of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dna damage response ,  signal transduction by p53 class mediator .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  whole organism of cell redox homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural tube of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lateral line system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  trunk of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  head of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  hepatocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  temporally extended  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal rod cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of noradrenaline .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of serotonin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of  ( 5 - hydroxyindol - 3 - yl ) acetic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of dopamine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  caudal fin of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrial inner membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrial membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  mauthner neuron of excitatory postsynaptic potential .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  auditory receptor cell of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  posterior lateral line of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral line of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  anterior lateral line of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of manganese ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of manganese ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hemoglobin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalon of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  interneuromast cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otic epithelium of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  gall bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 of embryonic viscerocranium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic cranial skeleton morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  terminal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  fast muscle cell of synaptic cleft .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  fast muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain of dorso - lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalon of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of axial region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  diencephalon of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spermine biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  common myeloid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  macrophage of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  subcutaneous fat .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of protein kinase b signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  male organism  ( liver of lipid droplet )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  whole organism of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  blood plasma of response to insulin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  liver of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  liver of cellular response to glucagon stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  female organism  ( liver of lipid droplet )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  whole organism of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  liver of regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of stat protein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  roof plate rhombomere region of left - right axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  adipose tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fast muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  rib .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ossification involved in bone maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal system of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  osteoblast of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cranium of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 primary tooth of tooth mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cranium  ( bone element )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial suture morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  bone development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  vertebral column of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cranium of fibrous joint .
abnormal ( ly )  domed  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  osteoblast of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spinal cord of microtubule cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arched  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  motor neuron of axon microtubule bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  spinal cord of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neural crest cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dna damage response ,  detection of dna damage .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  integument of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spermidine biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  tooth placode .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  tooth placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  tooth placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle ,  embryonic .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  bone tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  somite of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  whole organism of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lactate biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  head of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  locomotor rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  electric potential  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell of late endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retinal cone cell of late endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  aortic arch of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( heart )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( head )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm of heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephros of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of blue sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  parapineal organ  ( parapineal organ of neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  foraging behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of uv sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  parapineal organ of neuron fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  embryonic pelvic fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pelvic fin bud of apical ectodermal ridge formation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  hindlimb morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pelvic fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pelvic fin bud  ( apical ectodermal ridge pelvic fin bud )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  embryonic hindlimb morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pelvic fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pelvic fin bud of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pelvic fin bud of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk of central region  ( dermomyotome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  hypobranchial artery  ( lateral dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  hypobranchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  interhyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  intermandibularis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypobranchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 4 of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 3 of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  aortic arch 6 of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thalamus of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thalamus of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  margin of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  larval heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neural tube closure .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  lens  ( lens )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  split bilaterally  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural plate of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  peripheral nervous system of axonogenesis involved in innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  muscle of chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  physiological state  ( of )  age - dependent general metabolic decline .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  gut of chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intestinal lamina propria mucosa of leukocyte migration involved in inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  whole organism of nuclear chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  testis of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  testis of chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  head kidney of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  gut of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  circulating cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  blurry  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric duct of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  hypophysis of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( thyroid follicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  thyroid follicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton  ( cartilage element )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thyroid follicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  hypophysis of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( semicircular canal )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  horizontal cell of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  thyroid follicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( thyroid follicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( otolith )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rop motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  rop motor neuron of axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  parachordal vessel of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rop motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  xanthophore  ( melanophore stripe )  .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  iridophore  ( melanophore stripe )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  endocardium  ( myocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  optic furrow of basement membrane disassembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vascular endothelium of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  optic furrow of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  subintestinal vein of blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of hyaluronic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  fast muscle cell  ( trunk musculature of muscle tendon junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( trunk musculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of protein complex involved in cell - matrix adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  slow muscle cell  ( trunk musculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of hyaluronic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  myocardium of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( trunk musculature of muscle tendon junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of dystroglycan complex .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  fast muscle cell  ( trunk musculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myocardium of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  slow muscle cell  ( trunk musculature of muscle tendon junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intertectal commissure of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  myotome of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of stat protein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pars intermedia of melanocyte stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of trabecular layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  endothelial cell  ( atrioventricular valve )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  double - strand break repair via single - strand annealing .
abnormal ( ly )  ovate  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  retina of anatomical surface .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  microtubule polymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of n - glycan .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  liver of lipid droplet  ( liver )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cholesterol homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of lipooligosaccharide .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  hepatocyte of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  hepatocyte of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  trna processing .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pretectum of serotonergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  myotome of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  somite of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  somite of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  somite of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( rohon - beard neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  optic vesicle of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic vesicle of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk vasculature of artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  floor plate of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of protein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epicardium of squamous epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  epicardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  fluid - filled  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart vasculature of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endocardium of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  ovate  ( of )  epicardium of squamous epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  fibroblast  ( epicardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart vasculature of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disconnected  ( of )  heart vasculature of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  epicardium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  smooth  ( of )  epicardium of membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  endocardium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  myocardium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  motor behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( anterior mesencephalic central artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( central artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  basilar artery .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( cerebellar central artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( posterior mesencephalic central artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( axial blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( middle mesencephalic central artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( basilar artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  brain of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hindbrain of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  midbrain of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  facial lymphatic vessel of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord of lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of cytoplasmic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  respiratory gaseous exchange by respiratory system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  regulation of respiratory gaseous exchange .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of cytoplasmic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  bile canaliculus of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  retina of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  integument of pigment granule .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  bile canaliculus of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of odontogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  telencephalon diencephalon boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventral thalamus of forebrain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  forebrain  ( supraoptic tract )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of forebrain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of astrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of oligodendrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventral telencephalon of forebrain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  forebrain of gabaergic neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  postoptic commissure of central nervous system projection neuron axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  forebrain  ( postoptic commissure )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  anterior commissure of central nervous system projection neuron axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  supraoptic tract of central nervous system projection neuron axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral telencephalon of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalon of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  nucleus of the tract of the postoptic commissure of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  epithalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  habenula .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral habenular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  habenula .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  diencephalon of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  dislocated  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of wnt protein secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  dislocated  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell of mitotic g1 phase .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  response to mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hair cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone  ( hair cell of synaptic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hair cell of presynaptic active zone organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of basolateral plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  on - bipolar cell of synaptic transmission ,  glutamatergic .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer of modulation of chemical synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  macula saccule of hair cell  ( hair cell of synaptic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  response to auditory stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of synaptic transmission ,  glutamatergic .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  lateral crista of hair cell  ( hair cell of ribbon synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  detection of light stimulus involved in sensory perception .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hair cell of ribbon synapse  ( hair cell of synaptic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( eye photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  inner ear of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hair cell of basolateral plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  proepicardial cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  determination of heart left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  proepicardial cluster of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  atrial myocardium  ( ventricular endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  atrioventricular valve development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal development .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  atrial myocardium  ( ventricular myocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium  ( posterior lateral line primordium of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephric tubule of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  cerebellar central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of single ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cloaca .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephric tubule of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of establishment or maintenance of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  atretic  ( of )  cloaca .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of deoxyribonucleic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rna catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  apoptotic cell clearance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  oocyte of cortical granule .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  oocyte growth .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  female sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  ovary of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oocyte of cortical granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive ventral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive ectoderm of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  mesoderm of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retina of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retina of multi fate stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retina of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retina of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of multi fate stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of gene silencing .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephros of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  respiratory system process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  striated muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  striated muscle cell of muscle myosin complex  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  floor plate  ( floor plate of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  oriented  ( of )  floor plate of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  flow rate  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( t interneuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lens of enucleation .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  lateral crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  alignment  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta of basement membrane organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta of basement membrane organization .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  physical quality of a process  ( of )  cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of import across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased circumference  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  macula saccule of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  saccule of auditory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  neuromast of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  somite of neuronal signal transduction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  neutrophil  ( swim bladder )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  neutrophil  ( swim bladder )  .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  swim bladder of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  swim bladder of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  swim bladder of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  swim bladder of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of axial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain of axial region .
abnormal ( ly )  magnitude  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of melanin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of melanin .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  melanocyte of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of nik / nf - kappab signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased life span  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased life span  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  scale of ossification involved in bone remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  scale of bone resorption .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  retina of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  retina of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  fragile  ( of )  retina of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  retina of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk vasculature of response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of re - entry into mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  heart of tissue remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of tissue remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neutrophil of immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  olfactory pit of non - motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  regenerating fin of actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  regenerating fin of actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  solid lens vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  solid lens vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neurogenic field .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neurogenic field .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neurogenic field .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  epibranchial field .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neurogenic field of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neurogenic field of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  dorsolateral placode .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epibranchial placode .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pronephros of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mesoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line development .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  posterior lateral line development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of cholesterol biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  somite of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart of hydrogen peroxide metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic cup of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  hepatocyte of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  neural tube of non - motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of non - motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  caudal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vertebral artery .
abnormal ( ly )  fibrinoid  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  open  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal zone olfactory bulb of olfactory bulb glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral rectus of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  lateral rectus of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  growth quality of occurrent  ( of )  cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic vesicle of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myotome of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neural tube of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( fast muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  myotome of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fatty acid transport .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  macrophage  ( liver and biliary system )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  neutrophil  ( liver and biliary system )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of pancreas induction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of exocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  islet of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal rod cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal photoreceptor layer of uv sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal photoreceptor layer of blue sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal photoreceptor layer of green sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal photoreceptor layer of red sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of outflow tract morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  eye  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal fin of regeneration epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal fin of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  light - activated voltage - gated calcium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic vesicle of ventro - lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  blastema of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  female fertility  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  curvature  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vertebral column of skeletal system morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  copa of dorsal / ventral axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of cytoplasmic stress granule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  trunk of cytoplasmic stress granule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lateral zone of dorsal telencephalon of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lateral zone of dorsal telencephalon of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lateral zone of dorsal telencephalon of gliogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral zone of dorsal telencephalon of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased pigmentation  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intestinal lymphatic network of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal lymphatic network of lymphangiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  notochord of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  acute inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gill of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regeneration epithelium of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  intestine of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  neural crest cell of endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neural crest cell of early endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  neural crest cell of early endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  neural crest cell of early endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neural crest cell of late endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural crest cell of late endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell of endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell of endosomal lumen acidification .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  cerebellum of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  adductor mandibulae .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  head of epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of macrophage chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  basal plate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  connective tissue cell  ( liver )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic furrow of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  embryonic viscerocranium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cranial skeletal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cranium of osteoblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cranium of osteoblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cranium of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  cranium of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  cranium of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranium of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  secondary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  of cell migration in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain of glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  t cell of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of precursor t - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma / leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  caudal fin of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  caudal fin of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pancreas of zymogen granule .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord motor neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  phagocyte  ( brain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell differentiation involved in neuromast regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  integument of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  obsolete multi - organism behaviormulti - organism behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  metastatic  ( of )  brain of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  smooth  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  goblet cell  ( posterior intestine )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  goblet cell  ( intestinal bulb )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intestine of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  intestinal bulb of intestine lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  mid intestine of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  heart of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  head of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  torus longitudinalis of proliferative region  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  periventricular grey zone of proliferative region  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  pleomorphic  ( of )  hepatocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hepatocyte of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  hepatocyte of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  liver of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  otolith mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  bone development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  ceratohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  dentary of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  ceratohyal bone of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  entopterygoid of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  retroarticular of bone development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  head of skeletal system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  head of skeletal system .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  yolk of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  yolk of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blastema of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blastema of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  visual behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased concentration  ( of )  integument  ( ionocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lipid storage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of cholesterol storage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  liver of triglyceride homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of neural crest cell migration involved in autonomic nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  enteric neuron of neural crest cell migration involved in autonomic nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hypothalamus of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hypothalamus of neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  exploration behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  oviposition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  reproductive process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fertilized egg .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuron of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  nadh dehydrogenase  ( ubiquinone )  activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  nervous system of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  olfactory bulb  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  diencephalon of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  olfactory bulb of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  caudal fin of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of hematopoietic / lymphoid malignancies / disorder .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of necroptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein palmitoylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of dopamine .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of  ( 5 - hydroxyindol - 3 - yl ) acetic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  swim bladder development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  caudal fin  ( blood )  .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of ventricular zone  ( dorsal telencephalon of neuronal stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  conditioned place preference .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  midbrain of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of dna damage response ,  detection of dna damage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle satellite cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle satellite cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  swim bladder of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  pancreatic d cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreatic d cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  somite of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased weight  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased weight  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  myeloid cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of myeloid leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of myeloblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of myeloblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kidney of granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood island of granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  myeloid cell  ( caudal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  muscle cell of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intermediate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  embryonic heart tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cell migration to the midline involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  somite of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  olfactory bulb glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral posterior glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  neural rod of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hindbrain neural tube of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neural tube of establishment of apical / basal cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  locomotory exploration behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  locomotory exploration behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  conditioned place preference .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of regenerating tissue  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spinal cord of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  third ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  third ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  midbrain of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  viability  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestine of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuromast of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of mitotic cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast support cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  regenerating tissue of neuromast  ( neuromast support cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gut of lipoprotein particle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of plasma lipoprotein particle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased behavioural activity  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  5' - nucleotidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cystic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal division of the internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  metencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial vasculature of artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial vasculature of artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spleen .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  trunk vasculature of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  curved rostral  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( heart tube )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  periventricular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal periventricular hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  medial zone of dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  superior raphe nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal tuberal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spermatogonium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  periventricular nucleus of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  medial zone of dorsal telencephalon of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  superior raphe nucleus of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  preoptic area of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal tuberal nucleus of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  protein adp - ribosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  lens capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hyaloid vessel of tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  learning .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  memory .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  whole organism of peripheral region .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pancreas  ( glucagon secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly posterioralized  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  developmental process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  inflammatory response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  brain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  presumptive pronephric mesoderm of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  raphe nucleus of serotonergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of triglyceride - rich plasma lipoprotein particle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  visceral fat .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  subcutaneous fat .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  visceral fat of fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  visceral fat of fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  subcutaneous fat of fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  subcutaneous fat of fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  gut of neuroendocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  reflex .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  gill lamella  ( gill lamella )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  gill of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gill of mucus secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule  ( pronephric proximal straight tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of 17beta - estradiol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of cortisol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of cortisol .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood plasma of cortisol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of thyroxine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of thyroxine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of 11 - oxotestosterone .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  female organism of female gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  male organism of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of brain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of brain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of testis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of testis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  yolk of animal - vegetal axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  male courtship behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  response to pheromone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  male mating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal periventricular hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rostral parvocellular preoptic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventromedial zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron of response to pheromone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron of erk1 and erk2 cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  microvillous olfactory receptor neuron of erk1 and erk2 cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of ciliated olfactory receptor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of microvillous olfactory receptor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aggressive behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  social behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  pronephric duct of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric duct of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  pronephric duct of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  camera - type eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  somite development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hatching .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  regenerating tissue of autophagosome  ( lateral rectus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lateral rectus of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lateral rectus of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lateral rectus of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  regenerating tissue of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  caudal fin of fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventricular endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular valve of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  atrioventricular valve of cell  ( cardiac ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  respiratory gaseous exchange by respiratory system .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior caudal vein of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  adult locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  circulating cell of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  circulating cell of monocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  learning or memory .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  radial glial cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  brain of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventricular system of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  atrium  ( cardiac ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to absence of light .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to absence of light .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of calcium ( 2 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument of ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of sodium ( 1 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of potassium ( 1 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument of nak ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  brain of l - glutamate import .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  notochord of nitric oxide biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cleithrum of nitric oxide biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  scale of osteoclast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  low saturation  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  digestive system of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  amp - activated protein kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of glycogen .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  hepatocyte of intracellular canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of endoplasmic reticulum cisternal network .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  hepatocyte of rough endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  hepatocyte of nuclear membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  lateral zone of dorsal telencephalon of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor disc membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular spatiotemporal quality  ( of )  cytosolic transport .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  oocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  scale of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased perimeter  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  intestine of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased circumference  ( of )  intestine of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intestinal villus of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intervillus pockets of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of ependymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased perimeter  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased circumference  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of scale .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle myoblast of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  macrophage  ( hindbrain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  macrophage  ( swim bladder )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  granuloma formation .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  intestine of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  optic artery of vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta of endothelial cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hyaloid vessel of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  gut of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  gut of blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  ventral aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  lateral zone of dorsal telencephalon of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral zone of dorsal telencephalon of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsomedial optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  dorsomedial optic tract of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  epicardium of epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of neuroblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of lymphoid neoplasms .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  skeletal muscle of transverse plane .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle of transverse plane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventromedial zone olfactory bulb of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor cell cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primitive heart tube of bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  atrium of bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart rudiment of bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart primordium of bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart tube of bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum  ( commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  telencephalon of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  anterior commissure of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  telencephalon of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased sensitivity of a process  ( of )  sensory perception of sound  ( sensory perception of sound )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decondensed  ( of )  macula utricle of actin filament bundle of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decondensed  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of actin filament bundle of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  cholangiocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  liver and biliary system of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  median fin fold of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  median fin fold of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  muller cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  swim bladder of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  surrounded by  ( of )  swim bladder of epithelium  ( fibroblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  swim bladder of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  swim bladder of epithelial cell  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cholangiocyte of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  circulating cell of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  t interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  roof plate rhombomere region of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  swim bladder of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  inner ear of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  islet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  islet .
abnormal ( ly )  hollow  ( of )  islet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  basihyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  head of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial to hematopoietic transition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gut of apical plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of apical plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kidney epithelial cell of apical plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of neurofibrosarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  somite of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cell - cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  del  ( forerunner cell group )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  yolk of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  yolk of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  evl of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  prepulse inhibition .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  habenula .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  red  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( trunk musculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kidney of erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  lagena of actin filament bundle of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mobility  ( of )  muscle cell of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  tail bud of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer  ( proliferative region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retinal neural layer  ( proliferative region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer  ( proliferative region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer  ( proliferative region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  ventral branch nasal ciliary artery .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retina of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  retina of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of cortisol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hepatocyte of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of hepatocellular adenoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of hepatocellular adenoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of hepatocellular carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  male organism of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  female organism of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  atrium of cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  atrial myocardium of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( cardiac muscle cell of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  prepulse inhibition .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood island of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  blood island of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  skeletal muscle of actin filament  ( skeletal muscle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  skeletal muscle of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  blood island of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hematopoietic system of posterior side  ( hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  distance  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axial vasculature of vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  notochord of neutrophil activation involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  notochord of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  afferent neuron of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  neuromast support cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cholangiocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hepatocyte of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hepatocyte of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  post - vent region of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  ribosomal large subunit biogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5  ( chondroblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6  ( chondroblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pancreas field specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retina of pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ovarian follicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  developmental process involved in reproduction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  male fertile  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  female fertile  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regeneration epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium of apical region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium of basal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal fin of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating fin of bone element .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating fin of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  regenerating fin of osteoblast  ( bone element of distal region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  fin of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of establishment or maintenance of apical / basal cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  osteoblast of fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( swim bladder )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ceratohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  oligodendrocyte cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( spinal cord of glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalic nucleus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral telencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  locus coeruleus of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hypothalamic zone of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  forebrain of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalic nucleus of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  neutrophil  ( hindbrain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of establishment of apical / basal cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct epithelial cell of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  dorsal aorta of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  punctate  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blood island of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glutamate homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  heart of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  growth quality of occurrent  ( of )  caudal fin of fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  splanchnocranium of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood vessel of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  brain of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of apoptotic dna fragmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk musculature of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  colored  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intrapancreatic duct  ( endocrine pancreas of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  insulin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pancreatic centroacinar cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glomerulus development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  renal tubule of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton  ( interhyal - hyosymplectic joint )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  ceratohyal - interhyal joint of chondrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  interhyal - hyosymplectic joint of chondrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  tapered  ( of )  ventral fin fold of posterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 skeleton of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myocardium of tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  epicardium of obsolete cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  epicardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  heart vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  bone growth .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle  ( kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of apical part of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  3 - d shape  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intramembranous ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  perichondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  opercle of intramembranous ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  branchiostegal ray of intramembranous ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  parasphenoid of intramembranous ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ceratohyal bone of perichondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hyomandibula of perichondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone of perichondral ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  osteoblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood coagulation ,  fibrin clot formation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast  ( posterior lateral line neuromast of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  demyelinated  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  demyelinated  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  demyelinated  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mauthner neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  lateralized  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  decondensed  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased behavioural activity  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral crista of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  saccule of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  lateral crista of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  distance  ( of )  hair cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone  ( hair cell of presynaptic active zone membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  hair cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  dappled  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( regenerating tissue of synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of regenerating tissue  ( neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pancreas regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pancreas regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of glioma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cerebellum of glioma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  fourth ventricle of glioma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  exocrine pancreas development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  motor neuron of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood island of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  trunk of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trunk of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  slow muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  lepidotrichium joint of fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  lepidotrichium joint of fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  regenerating fin of bone element .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood of glucose homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  whole organism of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  postoptic commissure  ( anterior commissure )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic stalk of optic nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  postoptic commissure  ( anterior commissure )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  preoptic area .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalon of antero - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  retina of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  optic stalk of optic nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  optic stalk of optic nerve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of hepatoblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  podocyte of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  forelimb morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hindlimb morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pelvic fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pelvic fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  eye of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retinal rod cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal rod cell of atp biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell of mitochondrion morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  mauthner neuron of ampa selective glutamate receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  mauthner neuron  ( mauthner neuron of ampa glutamate receptor complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of ampa glutamate receptor clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  magnitude  ( of )  mauthner neuron of ampa selective glutamate receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  extraocular musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  aortic arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  aortic arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  aortic arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  aortic arch 5 of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature of endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( glutamatergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cerebellum  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular duration  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  continuous  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  aortic arch of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased sensitivity of a process  ( of )  response to bacterium  ( response to bacterium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  granuloma formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  macrophage of granuloma formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  macrophage of apoptotic body  ( macrophage of lysosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  otic epithelium of actin cap .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  eye of hippo signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte of hippo signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  eye of erk1 and erk2 cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte of erk1 and erk2 cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  optic choroid of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic choroid of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  muscle of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  axial hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  manganese ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  digestive system of manganese ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of zinc ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of iron ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of cadmium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural plate formation .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial nerve development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic cup of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell cycle g1 / s phase transition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cell cycle g1 / s phase transition .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cap motoneuron of inhibitory postsynaptic potential .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  head of larval melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  trunk of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( xanthoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  head  ( melanoblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  head of larval melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  trunk musculature of involuntary skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  frequency  ( of )  trunk musculature of involuntary skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  intersegmental lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  myeloid cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac atrium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myocardium of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myocardium of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myocardium of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  melanosome assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic nerve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic chiasma development .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon terminus  ( retinal ganglion cell of presynapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  integument of pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle of neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  weight  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  weight  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell of caveola )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of t - tubule organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  insulating cell of pancreas regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blastema of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of sensory perception of mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of sensory perception of mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synaptic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast of postsynaptic density .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer of ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer of ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of presynapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  growth rate  ( of )  head of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decondensed  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage of cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  transparent  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  eye  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  heart of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kidney of granulocyte monocyte progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  acute inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  lobate  ( of )  neutrophil of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  bilobed  ( of )  neutrophil of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  head of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  granulocyte monocyte progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  head of granulocyte monocyte progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of neutrophil progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of neutrophil progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 primary tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  yolk of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  spinal cord of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel  ( basal communicating artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lateral crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  central canal of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  parapineal organ of neuron fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  anterior macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  posterior macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral line of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lateral line of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  caudal fin lower lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  caudal fin of upper region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of nucleotide biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  neutrophil  ( brain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  dermatocranium of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ectomesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  oral epithelium of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  swim bladder of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  swim bladder of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  swim bladder of mesothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hair cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hair cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  bone regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  aorta development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  arterial endothelial cell fate commitment .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hematopoietic cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ventricular system of macrophage migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gut of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ventromedial zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventromedial zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of ciliated olfactory receptor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pronephric tubule  ( pronephric tubule of single ciliated epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  somite of medial - lateral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  straight  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of anterograde axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of retrograde axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  glucagon secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  somite of superficial region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  somite 1  ( somite border )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite 5  ( somite border )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  somite 2  ( somite border )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  somite 3  ( somite border )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite 4  ( somite border )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vertebral column of segmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  somite border of extracellular matrix organization .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  somite border of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  posterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0072358 .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of neuron projection terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer of retina layer formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  amacrine cell of neuron projection extension .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  circulating cell of erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  erythroblast of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  integument of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  integument of papilloma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle adaptation .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  actin - myosin filament sliding .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  necrotic cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  somite development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  brain of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic prophase .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic anaphase .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic telophase .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cell of chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  cell of spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cell of metaphase plate .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  yolk of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  trigeminal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  digestive system of hepatocellular carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pancreas of acinar adenocarcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  digestive system of spindle cell sarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  megakaryocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  radial glial cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of neuronal stem cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  bipolar neuron of postsynaptic density .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  macrophage of immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  macrophage of response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cell of mitotic prophase .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cell of mitotic metaphase .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal region  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head of dorsal region  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  lateral line nerve of neural tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  muscle cell of cell wall repair .
abnormal ( ly )  increased life span  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of cranial motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  gut of enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intestinal lipid absorption .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  enterocyte of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  gut of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of glial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of epithelial to mesenchymal transition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuroblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otic epithelium of basal part of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion  ( statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuroblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of glial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  larval feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  response to lithium ion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  regenerating fin of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hepatoblast  ( hepatoblast of lamellipodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of establishment of epithelial cell apical / basal polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  embryonic heart tube elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  keratinocyte of basal protein localization .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skin epidermis development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epidermal superficial stratum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  periderm .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  peridermal cell  ( keratinocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  epidermis of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epidermis of cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  periderm of apical junction complex .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac muscle fiber development .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain of engulfment of apoptotic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  regenerating tissue of coronary vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  regenerating tissue of heart vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm  ( pharyngeal ectoderm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinal pigment epithelium development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  transferase activity ,  transferring phosphorus - containing groups .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trunk vasculature of dorsal region  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk vasculature of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  has number of  ( of )  trunk vasculature of dorsal region  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural crest of melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  common cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  common cardinal vein of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ovary of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  animal organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  fertility  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  sympathetic chain ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  lateral line of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of testosterone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of androgen .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spermatogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cell cycle g1 / s phase transition .
abnormal ( ly )  reflectivity  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  lens of enucleation .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  somite of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  somite 12 of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  somite 6 of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  somite 6 of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  somite 12 of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite 12 of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite 15 of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  somite 6 of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  somite 6 of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell  ( eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment  ( eye photoreceptor cell of vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  heart primordium of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  heart primordium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm of heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  dorsal aorta  ( dorsal aorta of vascular associated smooth muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal aorta  ( dorsal aorta of vascular associated smooth muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta of vascular associated smooth muscle cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  interrenal gland of neuroblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  interrenal gland of neuroblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  interrenal gland of neuroblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  lateral line nerve of glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating tissue of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  muscle precursor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  migratory cranial neural crest cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  columnar chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  chondrocyte of endoplasmic reticulum membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  chondrocyte of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal neural layer  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal rod cell  ( retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor cell outer segment organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  copa of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  fast muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  fast muscle cell of synaptic cleft .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  response to hypoxia .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to heat .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  immature gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  telencephalon of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of central nervous system neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental artery of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  thoracic duct of lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thoracic duct of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  otolithic lymph vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord of lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  preoptic area of neurosecretory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( cardiac ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( atrium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  raphe nucleus  ( raphe nucleus of serotonergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  raphe nucleus  ( raphe nucleus of serotonergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  defense response to fungus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  insulin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myotome of neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( fast muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cytoskeletal rearrangement involved in phagocytosis ,  engulfment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  microglial cell of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus  ( pronephric glomerulus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus  ( glomerular basement membrane of glomerular endothelium fenestra )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain of apoptotic cell clearance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  brain of apoptotic cell clearance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  brain of recognition of apoptotic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain of phagolysosome assembly involved in apoptotic cell clearance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  brain of engulfment of apoptotic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  brain of engulfment of apoptotic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  brain of phagolysosome assembly involved in apoptotic cell clearance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of macrophage chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  medulla oblongata of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lateral rectus of skeletal muscle tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral rectus of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk musculature of striated muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of coronary vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  disconnected  ( of )  regenerating tissue of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  magnitude  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  whole organism of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  schwann cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  apoptotic process involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of apical constriction .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of apical plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac ventricle morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac ventricle morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  external to  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( heart )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trabecular layer of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  anterior lateral line nerve of afferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  anterior lateral line nerve of efferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  eye of ribosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of outflow tract morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  myotome of anatomical boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  aortic arch 3  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  aortic arch 4  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cell migration involved in heart formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell migration involved in heart formation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  aortic arch  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of bicellular tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of establishment of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  ventricular myocardium  ( ventricular endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myelination of posterior lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of clustering of voltage - gated sodium channels .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  whole organism of neurofibrosarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of apical plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of inositol phosphate - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased sensitivity of a process  ( of )  startle response  ( startle response )  .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  hair cell posterior macula of actin filament bundle of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  voluntary musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephros of endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  podocyte of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  imperforate  ( of )  glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane  ( podocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric capsular space of protein .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  podocyte  ( pronephric glomerulus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hindbrain of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  mating .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  eating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  angiogenic sprout of endothelial tip cell  ( angiogenic sprout )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  angiogenic sprout  ( endothelial cell of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of actin filament bundle of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  actin filament reorganization .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  angiogenic sprout  ( endothelial cell of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vertebral column of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of basal plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  disconnected  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuron of cellular response to stress .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of postero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of postero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of postero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of postero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of dorsal margin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of dorsal margin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of dorsal margin .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  hyomandibula  ( inner ear )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hyomandibula .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage  ( inner ear )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage  ( neurocranial trabecula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hyomandibular foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephros of glomerular endothelium fenestra .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  pronephros of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  pronephros of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephros of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  brain of wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of chromatin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  hepatocyte of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of hepatocellular carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  lens of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( yolk of anatomical surface )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trunk musculature of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle of wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sexual reproduction .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  angioblast cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  choroid plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  integument of proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  integument of proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anatomical system .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  stacked  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric duct of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  mechanosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vent .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  atrial myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  sodium ion import across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  head kidney of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thymus of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  thymus of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  anterior neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  posterior neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta  ( hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta  ( hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kidney of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  inner ear of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor connecting cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  proximal pars anterior  ( somatotropin secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  proximal pars anterior  ( thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  proximal pars anterior  ( thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of peripheral region .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fluid flow  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  muller cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of calcium carbonate .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  retinal neural layer of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  retinal neural layer of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heparan sulfate 6 - o - sulfotransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  inner ear of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pectoral fin of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuromast of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  otolith development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  intermediate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of cytoplasm  ( pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of cytoplasm  ( pronephric proximal straight tubule of vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  proximal convoluted tubule of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  proximal straight tubule of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  botryoidal  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  botryoidal  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pronephric capsular space .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  capillary loop nephron .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  capillary loop nephron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  whole organism of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  neural crest  ( dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  midbrain of lymph vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  forebrain of ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  midbrain of ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  peridermal cell of actin - based cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  peridermal cell of actin - based cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  somite of dorsal - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  sclerotome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  paired fin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  paired fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  paired fin .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein localization to plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  peridermal cell of apical side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  peridermal cell of apical side .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  peridermal cell of actin - based cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  peridermal cell of actin - based cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  peridermal cell of actin - based cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  vasculature of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  swim bladder of neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  slow muscle cell  ( slow muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  olfactory pit of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  amacrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  erythroblast of mitophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  erythroblast of mitophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  pronephros of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  erythroblast of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  erythroblast of lysosome  ( erythroblast of mitochondrion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epidermis of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0008003 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0031513 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  notochord of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0005605 .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  localized  ( of )  oocyte stage i of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  trunk musculature of relaxation of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  twitch skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased intensity  ( of )  twitch skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  trunk musculature of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  trunk musculature of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased intensity  ( of )  tonic skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal muscle adaptation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  trunk musculature of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  myotome of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of respiratory gaseous exchange by respiratory system .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  slow muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  fast muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  muscle of mitochondrial matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  skeletal muscle of myofibril  ( skeletal muscle of muscle tendon junction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of choline .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of s - adenosyl - l - methionine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of arachidonic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of cdp - choline .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of 12 - hete .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of f4 - neuroprostane  ( 4 - series )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of docosahexaenoic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of 5 - oxo - ete .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of lysophosphatidylcholine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of 5 - hete .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of 9 - hode .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  generation of precursor metabolites and energy .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  associative learning .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cell of chromosome ,  telomeric region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage activation .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retina of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0031512 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  somite of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0072372 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal cone cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal rod cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  notochord of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neuroectoderm of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  oocyte stage i of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  oocyte stage i of mitochondrial cloud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  microtubule depolymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  caudal vein of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood vessel endothelium of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  sodium ion export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  sodium ion import across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  integument of proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  whole organism of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  vertebral artery .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  melanocyte of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  atrial myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  determination of digestive tract left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  determination of liver left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neural crest of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neural crest of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neural crest cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of amyloid - beta polypeptide 42 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  telencephalon of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  diencephalon of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephric tubule of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric tubule of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cell  ( pronephric tubule of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric tubule of proximal region  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pronephric tubule of proximal region  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of lactate .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( caudal fin vasculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  oocyte stage i of cell cortex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  oocyte stage i of organelle disassembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cortisol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of retrograde axonal transport .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased stability  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  third ventricle of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fast muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fast muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mesencephalic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  anterior macula of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  lateral crista of ciliary shaft .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral crista of ciliary shaft .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  lateral crista of ciliary shaft  ( lateral crista of intraciliary transport particle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of ciliary shaft .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of ciliary shaft .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain midbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain midbrain boundary neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  presumptive endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neurocranium of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  adult locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primordial germ cell of establishment of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  primordial germ cell of regulation of intracellular ph .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage i of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage i of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  thoracic duct of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinal neural layer of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal neural layer of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  amacrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  proton transmembrane transport .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  myoseptum of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium  ( posterior lateral line primordium of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased cellular motility  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased velocity  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  response to auditory stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  optomotor response .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  inner ear of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  splayed  ( of )  inner ear of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cuticular plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of intraciliary transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of kinociliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  normal  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neurocranium of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive ventral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  utricle of otolith formation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  macula utricle of vestibular receptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( hindbrain of vestibulospinal neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  macula utricle  ( hair cell anterior macula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  utricle  ( lapillus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  lagena of otolith formation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  saccule of otolith formation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  lagena  ( asteriscus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  saccule  ( sagitta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  utricle of otolith formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  equilibrioception .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  utricle  ( lapillus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  dorsalized  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spleen of granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreas of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spleen of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  inflammatory response to antigenic stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spleen .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( blood of igm immunoglobulin complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( thymus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mature b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( primary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  gut of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gut of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intestinal motility .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of glutathione disulfide .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  glutathione oxidoreductase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of glutathione disulfide .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  glutathione oxidoreductase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  heart of reactive oxygen species .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gonad primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  otolith .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of postero - ventral region  ( reticulospinal neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of posterior region  ( reticulospinal neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of ventral region  ( reticulospinal neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased perimeter  ( of )  reticulospinal neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epithalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  habenula .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  optic furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cell - cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neuroectoderm of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial nerve viii of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterior lateral line ganglion of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  lateral line nerve of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  exocrine pancreas  ( intrapancreatic duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  pupil .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic vesicle of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  sodium ion import across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of glutathione .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin nerve of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin nerve of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  non neural ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  endocardium  ( endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  spinal cord of primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium  ( posterior lateral line primordium of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta  ( hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  interrenal gland of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  interrenal gland .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  midbrain of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  axial hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  taxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil - mediated killing of bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  notochord of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pretectum of serotonergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neuromast of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otolith of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hair cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  hemostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  myocardium of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endodermal cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  trunk of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  synaptic transmission ,  glycinergic .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cleithrum of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hepatocyte of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of antero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of postero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuroectoderm of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  shield of lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  somite of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  water transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  carbon dioxide transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  oxygen transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral artery .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  myocardium  ( myocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of site of dna damage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to stress .
abnormal ( ly )  sensitivity of a process  ( of )  startle response  ( sensory perception of sound )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  spinal cord of primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  peridermal cell of basal region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  peridermal cell of basal region  ( peridermal cell of filamentous actin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  aggressive behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  segment specification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epidermis of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  epidermis of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of glucose homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart of striated muscle myosin thick filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  muscle of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  heart of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  dorsal aorta of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  dorsal aorta of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  dorsal aorta of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eye of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic cup of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of motor neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of motor neuron  ( rhombomere 4 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of motor neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of motor neuron  ( rhombomere 5 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  rhombomere 6  ( facial nerve motor nucleus of motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  symplectic .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  perpendicular to  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  perpendicular to  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  tegmentum of ventral - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  tegmentum of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  midbrain of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  tegmentum of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  midbrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  rhombomere of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  forebrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  midbrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  midbrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 2 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 1 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  midbrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  caudal fin of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  caudal fin actinotrichium of fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  caudal fin actinotrichium of fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  caudal fin actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  whole organism of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  whole organism of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric duct of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of cholesteryl ester .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vasculature of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intestinal lipid absorption .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane of filtration diaphragm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  prolactin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  pleomorphic  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intestinal bulb of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  mid intestine of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  mid intestine of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  enteroendocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mid intestine of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intestine of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior intestine of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  intestinal bulb of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  mid intestine of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  intestinal bulb of enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  mid intestine of enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  heart of leukocyte activation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intestine of anatomical region  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin principal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin principal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  opercle of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  opercle of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of tissue migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of tissue migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  slow muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  slow muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  yolk of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epiblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  yolk of microtubule cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  yolk of microtubule bundle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  area density  ( of )  yolk of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  area density  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  yolk of microtubule polymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of pregnenolone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of progesterone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  glycolytic process .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  heart of anatomical region  ( muscle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  atrioventricular canal morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  has number of  ( of )  spinal cord  ( primary motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( cartilage element )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( cartilage element )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  prolactin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell  ( ventral wall of dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  caudal fin of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  caudal fin of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intervillus pockets of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intestinal villus of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intervillus pockets .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intervillus pockets .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  trunk mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sclerotome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  axial vasculature of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  palate of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  interhyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retroarticular .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  retroarticular .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  quadrate - anguloarticular joint .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  sinus venosus of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  atrioventricular ring .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  centrum of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  physical quality  ( of )  bone tissue of collagen type i trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  osteoblast of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  rib .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  sloped  ( of )  neural spine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optic cup of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  centrum of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hemal arch of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  neural arch of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass density  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass density  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass density  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of longitudinal sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of t - tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  diencephalon of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pretectum .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  distance  ( of )  spinal cord of mitochondria - associated endoplasmic reticulum membrane  ( spinal cord of mitochondrial envelope )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of mapk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pro - t cell of precursor t - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma / leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart trabecula formation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior basicapsular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior basicapsular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral basicapsular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of lactate .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  dislocated  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disassembled  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of facial nerve motor nucleus  ( motor neuron of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of facial nerve motor nucleus  ( motor neuron of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased behavioural activity  ( of )  response to absence of light .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  response to absence of light .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of action potential firing pattern .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  liver of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  liver of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  liver of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  liver of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central artery of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  integument of proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  integument of proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  vh ionocyte of proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  ionocyte of proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neurocranium of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  blood coagulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  thrombocyte  ( dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast support cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of pyridoxate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of hexadecanoylcholine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of pyridoxamine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cyanocob ( iii ) alamin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of phosphocholine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of pyridoxamine 5' - phosphate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of folic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fecundity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal vein of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  caudal vein  ( blood vessel endothelium of macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  caudal vein  ( blood vessel endothelium of myeloid leukocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased weight  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fertility  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased weight  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fertility  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  spleen of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  liver of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  spleen of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  spleen .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  brain of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of glutathione .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  visceral fat .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  visceral fat .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  central nervous system of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of calcium ion transport .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  heart of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  seminiferous tubule lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sertoli cell .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  blood of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  blood of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  blood of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  muscle of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  muscle of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hepatocyte of cytolysis .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  male organism of liver  ( fat cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased weight  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  oogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage iii .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage iv .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  neuron of axon  ( neuron of mitochondrion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myelin accumulating cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  fourth ventricle of monocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  locus coeruleus of noradrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral thalamus  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal tuberculum  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal vein of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( caudal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased sensitivity of a process  ( of )  visual perception  ( response to light stimulus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  whole organism of mitochondrial inner membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of melatonin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 1h - indol - 3 - amine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  glutathione - disulfide reductase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  glutathione peroxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  superoxide dismutase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  periventricular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  regenerating fin of fibrillar collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of anatomical space .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of reactive oxygen species .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of malonaldehyde .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  catalase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  superoxide dismutase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  learning or memory .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  nephron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  renal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  motor neuron of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic furrow of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  closure of optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  opercular flap .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gall bladder of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of osteosarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  white  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  white  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranium of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cranium of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  presumptive endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  presumptive mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endoderm formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mesoderm formation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  forebrain neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  mesoderm of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  mesoderm of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of anterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm of anterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  spinal cord neural tube of anterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord neural tube of anterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  otic epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  joint of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  joint of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic skeletal joint development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  thymus epithelium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  thymus of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  thymus of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharynx of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharynx of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of pro - t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus primordium of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  liver of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( ito cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  nephron of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of brush border epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  renal glomerulus of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  leukocyte  ( pronephric proximal convoluted tubule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral fin field .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  forebrain of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  oxidation - reduction process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of nitric oxide .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  liver of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  liver of lipid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  somite of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  alignment  ( of )  skeletal muscle of z disc  ( skeletal muscle of z disc )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  somite of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  retina of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  strain  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  yolk of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk vasculature of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gut of short - chain fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gall bladder of short - chain fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of short - chain fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  intestine of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of appetite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage iii .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  serine - type endopeptidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  serine - type endopeptidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  blood coagulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fragility  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  aerobic respiration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of membrane depolarization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  motor neuron of membrane depolarization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intermediate reticular formation of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  region of the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fascicle of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  movement behavioral quality  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  movement behavioral quality  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of atp .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of adenosine 5' - monophosphate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of adenosine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of adp .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atp metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  filopodium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of thiol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of lipid catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  aggressive behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hemoglobin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ovarian follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  habenula development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epithalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  paraventricular organ of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  paraventricular organ of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  diencephalic nucleus of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  diencephalic nucleus of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( ito cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spermatogonium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  sertoli cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  fever generation .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  thermotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  thermotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blastomere of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastomere of peripheral region .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  blastodisc of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  blastodisc of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  blastodisc of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastodisc of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blastodisc of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  blastodisc of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blastodisc of mitotic cleavage furrow formation .
abnormal ( ly )  has number of  ( of )  diencephalon  ( diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  scale of calcium cation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of gliogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  spinal cord of axon extension involved in regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  spinal cord of axon extension involved in regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  spinal cord of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  spinal cord of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  liver of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  liver of fatty acid beta - oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  liver of fatty acid beta - oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  muscle of fatty acid beta - oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cell of calcium ( 2 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cell of calcium ( 2 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary  ( midbrain hindbrain boundary )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased angle to  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary  ( midbrain hindbrain boundary )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( pericardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite 1 of anatomical region  ( notochord of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite 2 of anatomical region  ( notochord of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  male organism of mating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  male organism of mating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  female organism of mating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  central canal of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  slow muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  striated muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  striated muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  striated muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  cloaca .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hematopoietic system of posterior region  ( hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ceratohyal bone of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  dorsal periventricular hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  periventricular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  caudal tuberal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  supracommissural nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  brain of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  anatomical structure of carbohydrate .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of carbohydrate .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  anatomical structure of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  anatomical structure of glycogen .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of glycogen .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  anatomical structure of nucleic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of nucleic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  anatomical structure of protein .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of protein .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  whole organism of axial region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  mauthner neuron of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  mauthner neuron of spontaneous synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  antioxidant activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  whole organism  ( whole organism )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  glial cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  brain of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  brain of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of manganese ( 2 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of manganese ( 2 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of cortisol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sympathetic chain ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of plasma cell neoplasms .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  liver of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  visual learning .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of cortisol .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anguloarticular .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  auditory receptor cell of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  auditory receptor cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  auditory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  conditioned place preference .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  conditioned place preference .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  splanchnocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain vasculature of capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primitive internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of acetylcholine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  synaptic signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuron of dendritic spine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  neuron of dendritic spine .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  slow muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  non neural ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastodisc of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  caudal vein of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  neutrophil  ( post - vent region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  liver of glycogen .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle of glycogen .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  hourglass - shaped  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of sphingosine .
abnormal ( ly )  wholeness  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  fatty acid peroxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of dopamine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of serotonin .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly ossified  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lipid catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  congested  ( of )  vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  otic vesicle of hair cell  ( otic vesicle of hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  auditory receptor cell  ( auditory receptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  auditory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  visceral fat .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  subcutaneous fat .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  subcutaneous fat .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcolemma .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell myoblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  presumptive bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trabecular layer of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mobility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  eye of sodium arsenite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gut of sodium arsenite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of sodium arsenite .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural spine .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hemal spine .
abnormal ( ly )  inflexible  ( of )  joint .
abnormal ( ly )  uninflated  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  scarred  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic cup of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  optic cup of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of dopamine secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of adult locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  forebrain of l - glutamate import .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  liver of membrane raft .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  membrane raft organization .
abnormal ( ly )  damage  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  skeletal tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  peritoneum .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  defecation .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  hindbrain of adenocarcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of hypochlorous acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  peritoneum of macrophage chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  peritoneum of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  peritoneum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  peritoneum .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  blood coagulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm of myocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  proton transmembrane transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  forebrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  forebrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  preoptic area .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  central canal of detection of mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of cerebrospinal fluid circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  forebrain of asymmetric stem cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  response to chemical .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  pronephric duct of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  optic vesicle of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon  ( diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( spinal cord of oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ventricular endocardium of notch signaling involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  prechordal plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  involuntary skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cranial nerve viii of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  cranial ganglion  ( cranial ganglion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retina layer formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of reactive oxygen species .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ovary of reactive oxygen species .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of axonal fasciculation .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus medulla oblongata of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  granuloma formation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pancreatic d cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pancreatic d cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  presumptive telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of blood vessel remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of estradiol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  trunk of intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of endothelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regenerating fin of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lens fiber cell .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  lens of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephros of renal filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  forebrain of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  t cell receptor v ( d ) j recombination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of mature b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  whole organism of atp generation from adp .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  whole organism of aerobic respiration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  epidermis of multi fate stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular spatiotemporal quality  ( of )  skin development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  nak ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  pronephric tubule of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  glycolytic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  oxidative phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  behavioral defense response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of locomotor rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular rhythm  ( of )  atrium of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell membrane repolarization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration  ( of )  nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lens of radical .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lens of cellular oxidant detoxification .
abnormal ( ly )  reflectivity  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  presumptive endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mesendoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument of mitochondrial chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cholangiocyte of morphogenesis of a polarized epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cholangiocyte of actin cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  liver of intrahepatic bile duct development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  bile ductule of morphogenesis of a branching epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  bile ductule of morphogenesis of a branching epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  bile ductule of cholangiocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( cholangiocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( cholangiocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of liver and biliary system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of hepatocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating tissue of liver and biliary system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct of anatomical region  ( leukocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric duct of epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  midbrain of posterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  midbrain of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  midbrain of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  adenohypophyseal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of pyruvate .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cell - cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  periderm .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of gamma - aminobutyric acid signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular duration  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  locus coeruleus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neural plate of anterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  liver of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  hepatocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pericardial cavity of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  leukocyte migration involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( atrioventricular valve )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  common cardinal vein of circulating cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  liver of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  liver of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of nad .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  head of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  head of glutamic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of dopamine .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  head of serotonin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  muller cell of glial cell activation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  symplectic of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  melanosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of larval locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  discontinuous  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of  ( r )  - adrenaline .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of noradrenaline .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of histamine .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  head of  ( r )  - adrenaline .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  head of noradrenaline .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hypothalamic zone of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  caudal hypothalamic zone of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  protein kinase b signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  vitamin d receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of cell outer membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  liver of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  male organism of liver .
abnormal ( ly )  adenomatous  ( of )  male organism of liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  female organism of liver .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  female organism of liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  liver of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  liver of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of high - density lipoprotein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of low - density lipoprotein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of very - low - density lipoprotein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk vasculature of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  macrophage of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oocyte of sphingosine .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  oocyte of ceramide .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  oocyte of sphingoid 1 - phosphate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of sphingosine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of sphingosine 1 - phosphate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  yolk of actin cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  evl of junctional membrane complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  head of nad .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of glutamic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  head of dopamine .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  macrophage  ( intestinal epithelium of anatomical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  intestinal bulb of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  intestinal bulb of anatomical region  ( neural crest cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intestinal bulb primordium of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  gut of anatomical region  ( neural crest cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  determination of intestine left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pancreas  ( pancreatic a cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  eye of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  heart tube of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  heart of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle heart tube of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  notochord of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  heart of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  digestive system of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  parapineal organ  ( parapineal organ of neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( ncc ionocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  atrial endocardium of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrial endocardium of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  neurocranium of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer  ( retinal neural layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  soft  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  inflexible  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hatching .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vertebral artery of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord of astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of anatomical region  ( angiogenic sprout )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of neuroblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  whole organism of neuroblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  epicardium of cell  ( heart vasculature of anatomical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  eye of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( glutamatergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( glycinergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of glutamatergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  defense response to virus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon arborization .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of renal system vasculature morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of renal system vasculature morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  midbrain of lymph vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite 1 of lateral region  ( notochord of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  somite 2 of lateral region  ( notochord of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myoblast of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  myoblast of cell - matrix adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myoblast of cell - matrix adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  operculohyoid ligament of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ligamentous ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  portion of connective tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  ossified  ( of )  operculohyoid ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  opercle of osteoprogenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cell adhesion involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  bone element .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  bone element .
abnormal ( ly )  variability  ( of )  vertebral column of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  parietal bone of apatite .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  osteoblast of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranial vault of fibrous joint .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  parietal bone of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly ossified  ( of )  orbitosphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly ossified  ( of )  pterosphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  parasphenoid  ( frontal bone )  .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  cranial vault of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  cranial vault of bone element .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete  ( of )  cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  replacement bone of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart rudiment of smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of heart trabecula formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trabecular layer of the atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  epiphyseal bar .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  inter - ventral hypohyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  hepaticobiliary system development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  liver morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( intrahepatic bile duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hepaticobiliary system development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( intrahepatic bile duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  liver morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle cell of l - type voltage - gated calcium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  muscle cell of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol by sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  muscle cell of l - type voltage - gated calcium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  behavioral fear response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cortisol secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  lateral recess .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hypothalamus of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  hypothalamus of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  preoptic area .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  caudal hypothalamic zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  preoptic area .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  caudal hypothalamic zone .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  embryo development ending in birth or egg hatching .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( thoracic duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal aorta of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal aorta of vascular associated smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of vascular associated smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  immature gonad of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gonad primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  immature gonad of germ cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  immature gonad of male gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  immature gonad of female gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  immature gonad of female somatic sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  immature gonad of male somatic sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  immature gonad of somatic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  immature gonad of somatic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  immature gonad of somatic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  immature gonad of somatic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  immature gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  immature gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  immature gonad  ( germ line cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  gonad of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  germ line cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  somatic cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  dorsal aorta of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestine of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  female sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  female sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  female sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  male sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  male sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  olfactory bulb of response to odorant .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron of response to odorant .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell proliferation involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestine of smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  gut of peristalsis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cardiac conduction system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  sinoatrial node .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  sinoatrial node .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  cardiac conduction system .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  sinoatrial node .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  gut of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gut of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intestine of smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  smooth muscle cell of cell maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  intestine of smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  receptor signaling pathway via jak - stat .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral line of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral line of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  telencephalon of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  telencephalon of commitment of multipotent stem cells to neuronal lineage in forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuronal stem cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  erk1 and erk2 cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  anterior neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  presumptive telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  brain of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of anterograde axonal transport .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axonemal dynein complex assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( thoracic duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  integument of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of peroxisome transport along microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of anterograde axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of retrograde axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon terminus  ( posterior lateral line nerve of mitochondrion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of axon terminus  ( posterior lateral line neuromast of mitochondrion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ito cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  liver of ito cell .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  liver of ito cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ito cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of retrograde axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of retrograde axonal transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of anterograde axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of postero - dorsal region  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of postero - ventral region  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of posterior region  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  mauthner neuron of posterior region  ( mauthner neuron of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  perineuronal satellite cell .
abnormal ( ly )  rhythm quality  ( of )  circadian regulation of gene expression .
abnormal ( ly )  rhythm quality  ( of )  melanin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cardiac neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  anterior segment eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of calcium ( 2 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  ventral root of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral root of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  presynapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  postsynapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retina of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myotome development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mesoderm of anterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell of cell cycle g1 / s phase transition .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  myotome of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  post - vent region of notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  motor neuron of collateral sprouting .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  fast muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  motor neuron of presynapse .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  myotome of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  magnitude  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of membrane depolarization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  motor neuron of membrane depolarization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  fast muscle cell of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  fast muscle cell of skeletal muscle acetylcholine - gated channel clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  motor neuron of synaptic vesicle clustering .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  fast muscle cell of neuromuscular junction development ,  skeletal muscle fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  motor neuron of presynapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  fast muscle cell of neuromuscular junction development ,  skeletal muscle fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  motor neuron of presynapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  pronephric tubule  ( whole organism of anterior - posterior axis )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal cone cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal rod cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  optical quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of glutathione .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  pronephric duct of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  protoneuromast of extracellular region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  protoneuromast of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( palatoquadrate cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  oocyte of reproductive senescence .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  senescent  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ovary of spermatogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ovary of maintenance of animal organ identity .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer  ( phagocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer  ( photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor disc membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer  ( photoreceptor cell of axoneme )  .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  neural retina development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  male  ( of )  whole organism of ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 3' , 5' - cyclic amp .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 3 of motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 4 of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  sclerotome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  gonadotrophin - releasing hormone neuronal migration to the hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 1 of motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 2 of motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 4 of motor neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 2 of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 3 of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 2 of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 3 of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of neuron maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus  ( motor neuron of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  intestine of distal region  ( enteric neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  germ cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  primordial germ cell of bleb assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primordial germ cell of actin filament polymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  central nervous system of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retina of cell proliferation involved in compound eye morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vein of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  subintestinal vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of lamellipodium .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  forebrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  spinal cord neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  neuroectoderm of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  nucleosome positioning .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuroectoderm of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mesoderm of ventro - lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  diencephalon of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  trunk of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ionocyte of proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  vh ionocyte of proton export across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  habenula of dendrite .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  habenula of dendrite arborization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  whole organism of thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  brain of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  whole organism of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  brain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  brain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic tectum of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  forebrain of apoptotic body .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  optic tectum of regulation of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of mitochondrial membrane potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of response to mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  lateral crista of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  heart of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  heart of protein - containing complex .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  heart of laminin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephros of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vasculature of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  post - vent vasculature of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of regulation of cardiac muscle contraction by calcium ion signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventricular zone of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  ciliatedness  ( of )  ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cloaca of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cloaca  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  intestine of distal region  ( enteric neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undistributed  ( of )  fast muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral crista of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lateral crista of inner ear receptor cell stereocilium organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of manganese atom .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of bromine atom .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of calcium atom .
abnormal ( ly )  brown  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanins .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of potassium atom .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  retinal neural layer of micronutrient .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of zinc atom .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of selenium atom .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of barium atom .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of strontium atom .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  melanoblast of cell maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of chemical homeostasis within retina .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  multi - ciliated epithelial cell of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myotome of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric duct of non - motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myoblast fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  nucleate quality  ( of )  fast muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton  ( ceratobranchial cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  posterior orientation  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment  ( eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( retinal photoreceptor layer of vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina of regulation of apoptotic cell clearance .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  male fertile  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retina of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of angiogenic sprout fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primary motor neuron of pseudopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 5 - o - phosphono - alpha - d - ribofuranosyl diphosphate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of imp .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of uric acid .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of  ( s )  - s - adenosyl - l - methionine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  yolk of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cytoskeleton of presynaptic active zone .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  afferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  common myeloid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta  ( hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head kidney  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  whole organism of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pancreatic a cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of oligodendrocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  type b pancreatic cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pancreatic a cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  atrium of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  atrium of h zone .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  atrium of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  atrium of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  xanthophore of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  thrombocyte of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  thromboblast of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  liver of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of protoporphyrin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of hemin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cerebellum of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  supraoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere of compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( rhombomere of compartment boundary )  .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hindbrain of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  discontinuous  ( of )  maintenance of blood - brain barrier .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  diencephalon of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endocardium of cardioblast cell midline fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cardioblast cell midline fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardioblast cell midline fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  swim bladder inflation .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oral region of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of atp .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  thyroid follicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  invasive  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood cell  ( heart )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  motor neuron of neuronal cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  motor neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  head kidney of mature b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  head kidney of hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  immunoglobulin v ( d ) j recombination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fragility  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  notochord inner cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell  ( notochord of central region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  notochord inner cell .
abnormal ( ly )  metaplastic  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell .
abnormal ( ly )  metaplastic  ( of )  notochord inner cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  entopterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of endothelial cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  brain of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  brain of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of neoplasm  ( angiogenic sprout )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( yolk syncytial layer )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  notochord inner cell of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  notochord development .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  notochord inner cell of caveola .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  notochord inner cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  notochord inner cell of plasma membrane  ( notochord inner cell of caveola )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  notochord inner cell of caveola neck .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased depth  ( of )  notochord inner cell of caveola bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  thymus development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  t cell receptor v ( d ) j recombination .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  t cell activation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  b cell activation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  immunoglobulin heavy chain v - d - j recombination .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spleen .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  natural killer cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of precursor t - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma / leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  interrenal gland of neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  torsioned  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  proteasomal protein catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  interrenal gland of neuron apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pituitary gland development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anal fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  caudal fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal fin development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  caudal fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anal fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of neoplasm  ( blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of neoplasm  ( blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  granule cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  purkinje cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anatomical structure of neurofibrosarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  regenerating fin of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  dorsal aorta of circulating cell  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  hypobranchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  hypobranchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thymus of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of prostaglandin e2 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  prostaglandin - e synthase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  post - vent region of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of count  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus medulla oblongata of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  microglial cell  ( central canal of anatomical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle cell of cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  defense response to gram - positive bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trabecular layer of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  angiogenesis involved in coronary vascular morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  del of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  del of cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  del of cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  myotome of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myotome of presynaptic density .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  peripheral nervous system  ( myelinating schwann cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  motor neuron  ( myelinating schwann cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  glial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of manganese ( 2 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of manganese atom .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of iron atom .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of manganese atom .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of zinc atom .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vertebra of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased angle to  ( of )  neural arch  ( vertebra )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  notochord of axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  artery .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  vein .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  pronephric tubule of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  renal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mass density  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of anterior region  ( hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region  ( hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic system of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  orbital region .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hematopoietic system of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  ependymal cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  neural tube  ( neural tube of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal tissue of tissue homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  vertebra  ( vertebra )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pericardial cavity of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  neural tube  ( neural tube of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron of 9 + 2 non - motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  myotome of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  myotome of non - motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  brainstem .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  brainstem .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellar central artery of vascular associated smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  keratinocyte of actin filament bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epidermal superficial stratum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  mauthner neuron of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  afferent neuron of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial nerve viii of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  non - functional  ( of )  mauthner neuron of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  afferent neuron of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  latency  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hypothalamus of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cerebellum of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuroblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of neuroblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of posterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  eye of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic system of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of stromal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  granulocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  thymus  ( lymphoid progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal vein plexus  ( hematopoietic stem cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuronal stem cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  afferent neuron of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve viii of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  afferent neuron of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  maturation of ssu - rrna from tricistronic rrna transcript  ( ssu - rrna ,  5 .8s rrna ,  lsu - rrna )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sympathetic nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  superior cervical ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  superior cervical ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  superior cervical ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  superior cervical ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  interrenal gland of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  interrenal gland of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  proliferative  ( of )  interrenal gland of neuroblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  interrenal gland of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  interrenal gland of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  persistence  ( of )  inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  integument .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  gill filament .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharynx of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  integument of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gill filament of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pharynx  ( t cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  gill  ( t cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( t cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  olfactory epithelium  ( t cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intestine  ( t cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  intestine lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  folded  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  choroid plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  choroid plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  choroid plexus epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arched  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  choroid plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  telencephalic ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of cholesteryl ester .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  choroid plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  choroid plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  choroid plexus epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  choroid plexus third ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  choroid plexus telencephalic ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epidermal cell of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  epidermis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  wnt signaling pathway ,  calcium modulating pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interrenal gland of neuroblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spinal cord of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of basal side .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  heart trabecula formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  atrial myocardium of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium  ( lepidotrichium joint )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast hair cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrial endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventricular endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glucose metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  pancreas of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  histone h3 - k27 methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast  ( neuromast of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  interneuromast cell  ( interneuromast cell of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument of carotenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  xanthophore of carotenoid vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of anatomical region  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  trunk of intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of anatomical region  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of macrophage migration .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dissociated from  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of angiogenic sprout  ( macrophage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  tail bud of mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  post - vent region of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of myofilament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of myofilament .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of myofilament  ( cardiac muscle cell of myofilament )  .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of myofilament  ( cardiac muscle cell of myofilament )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of plasma membrane  ( cardiac muscle cell of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of basal side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell migration involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  eye of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  trunk of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of melanoma in situ .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fertilization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  viability  ( of )  female organism of oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  asynchronous  ( of )  cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of embryonic viscerocranium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pectoral fin of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of neural crest cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pectoral girdle  ( cleithrum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pectoral girdle  ( scapulocoracoid )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  erythroblast of mitophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  blood cell  ( ventricular system )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood vessel of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  brain of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  brain of blood vessel endothelial cell  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  aerobic respiration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of liver and biliary system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cholangiocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cholangiocyte of wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hepatocyte of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  liver of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  regenerating tissue of liver and biliary system  ( liver and biliary system of epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating tissue of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  transcytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal fin of regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  caudal fin of regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  regenerating fin of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  epithelial cell  ( regenerating fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  peridermal cell of actin - based cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retina of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of hippo signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventral hyoid arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intersegmental artery of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synaptic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of synaptic ribbon .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  neuromast hair cell  ( neuromast hair cell of synaptic ribbon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of calcium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of calcium channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of motile cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  central canal of motile cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  post - vent region of notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain of regulation of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina of regulation of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic vesicle of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of regulation of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina of regulation of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hyperosmotic salinity response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hyperosmotic salinity response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  locomotory exploration behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of microglial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of neuron death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  optic tectum of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  zona limitans intrathalamica .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  anterior neural tube of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  spinal cord neural tube of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  motile cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of 9 + 2 motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of 9 + 2 motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lateral crista of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  neuromast of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  hindbrain of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  hindbrain of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  adjacent to  ( of )  hindbrain of centrosome  ( hindbrain of centrosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain of spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  centrosome cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic centrosome separation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of monocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  serotonergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephros of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of glomerular visceral epithelial cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephros of renal filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  dystrophic  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  somite border of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  somite border of mesenchymal to epithelial transition .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite border of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite border of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  somite border of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephros of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil activation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neutrophil activation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  post - vent region of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal fin of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal fin of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  margin of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  margin of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  presumptive mesoderm of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ectodermal cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  male courtship behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  spinal cord of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pancreas of pancreatic a cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( pancreatic a cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  islet of cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  fibroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pigment accumulation in response to uv light .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  blue sensitive photoreceptor cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blue sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  gut epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intrapancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart of glycogen granule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of glycogen granule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of glycogen granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  alpha - glucosidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  head of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  heart of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  aortic arch of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  aortic arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  aortic arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  aortic arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  aortic arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of cartilage morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch of wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch of ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch of tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  brain of immune response in brain or nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fourth ventricle of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fourth ventricle of monocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  fourth ventricle of monocyte chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fourth ventricle of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retroarticular of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retroarticular .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cranial nerve viii of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  cranial nerve viii .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal pouches 2 - 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of cholesteryl ester .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  chondrocyte of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  chondrocyte of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  chondrocyte of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  chondrocyte of secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  perichondral bone of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  extraocular musculature of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  caudal fin of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  trunk of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  chondrocyte of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  chondrocyte of rough endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  chondrocyte of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  chondrocyte of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endochondral bone of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  perichondral bone of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  chondrocyte of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  polarity  ( of )  chondrocyte of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  evl of regulation of embryonic cell shape .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  quadrate .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  endochondral bone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  chondrocyte of microtubule organizing center .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of cartilage morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  palate of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cell of cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  quadrate .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chondrocyte of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chondrocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  epidermis of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  auditory receptor cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  inner ear development .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  hair cell posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of epithelial cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  auditory receptor cell of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  auditory receptor cell of cochlear hair cell ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  odontogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  tooth 5v .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  tooth 4v .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer of skeletal muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  fast muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell of skeletal muscle fiber development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  rop motor neuron of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  myotome of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of anatomical space .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  diencephalon of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  regenerating fin of mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  myelin accumulating cell of membrane  ( myelin accumulating cell of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of nitric oxide .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  nitric oxide metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of taurine .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of methionine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of l - saccharopine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of beta - alanine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of allysine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of pyridoxal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of serine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of tyrosine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of alpha - aminobutyric acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of pipecolate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 1 - piperideine - 6 - carboxylic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  hindbrain of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  telencephalon of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  diencephalon of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  midbrain of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  electric potential  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  terminal nerve of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  terminal nerve of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hollow  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  eating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  neural tube of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  basal communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hindbrain of brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  midbrain of brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  fluorescent  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  myotome of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  lens of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  spinal cord of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  myotome of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  optic cup of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial neural crest of neural crest cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of hematopoietic stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  integument of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  integument of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  integument of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  integument of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  blood island of hematopoietic stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  head kidney of hematopoietic stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sex differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  blood island of hepatoblast apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  loose  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  endocardial precursor of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  myocardial precursor of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endocardium of cardioblast migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endocardial precursor of cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myocardial precursor of cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endocardial progenitor cell migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  endocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of thromboblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endocardial precursor of dorsal side .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endocardial precursor of ventral side .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  endocardial precursor of cellular_component .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  endocardial precursor of anatomical side .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  endocardial precursor of fibronectin fibril .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  endocardial precursor of fibronectin fibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endocardial precursor of fibronectin fibril organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endoderm of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endocardial precursor of cell leading edge .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endocardial precursor of cell trailing edge .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of migratory cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  raphe nucleus of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  whole organism of associative learning .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch of neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  macrophage migration .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  blood island  ( erythroid progenitor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  heart  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  common cardinal vein  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  macrophage migration .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retina of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral fin fold of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  leukocyte migration involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  leukocyte migration involved in inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  defense response to gram - negative bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  inflammatory response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  yolk of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  whole organism of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vitreous of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  endothelial cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neurogenic placode of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  otic epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hair cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  chronic inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neutrophil homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neutrophil migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  chronic inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of endothelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  regenerating fin of post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  regenerating fin of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  tangled  ( of )  regenerating fin of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  distance  ( of )  cap motoneuron  ( cap motoneuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  subcutaneous fat .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood island of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epidermis of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( pericardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  epidermis of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  integument of epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  telomerase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  radius  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood plasma of calcium ( 2 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood plasma of phosphorus ( 1 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of d3 vitamins .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of d3 vitamins .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  visceral fat of d3 vitamins .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  liver of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  liver of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  membrane potential  ( of )  visceral fat of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  visceral fat of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  visceral fat of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lipid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  bone element .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  visceral fat .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased height  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  velocity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased velocity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased height  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cosa of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  tolerance induction to lipopolysaccharide .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hepatocyte of cellular response to lipopolysaccharide .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of very - low - density lipoprotein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  head kidney of granulocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  optic primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  forebrain neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  forebrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of glutamatergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  central nervous system neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  rhythm quality  ( of )  heart process .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blue sensitive photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retina of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  striated  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  involuntary skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  seminiferous tubule of germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  testis of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  primary dental epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primordial germ cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gonad of primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  meiosis i .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  germ cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  meiotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  kidney of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of melatonin .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  whole organism of neutrophil migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of lipid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  histone h3 acetylation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium  ( retinal pigmented epithelium of inclusion body )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of apoptotic chromosome condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  digestion .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  digestive system of g1 / s transition of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  digestive system of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  digestive system of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  whole organism of swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  uninflated  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  oral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lens of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  lens development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  lens epithelium of nucleus  ( lens of anatomical surface )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  lens epithelium of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lens fiber cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  eye of neurofibrosarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cerebellum of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  medulla oblongata of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brainstem of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of medulloblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  medulla oblongata .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  brainstem .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  forebrain of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hypothalamus of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  taste bud development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  taste bud .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  head of neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood vasculature of blood plasma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  glomerular filtration .
abnormal ( ly )  emarginate  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage of anterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7  ( ectomesenchyme )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gill of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spleen of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  sclera of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  optic chiasm of cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gill of ncc ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of chloride .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gill of sodium ( 1 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of sodium ( 1 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  renal glomerulus of glomerulus vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  renal glomerulus of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  renal glomerulus of podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cornea of glycosaminoglycan .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted - v shaped  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  aligned with  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of autolysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  neuromast of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  skeletal muscle of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  retina homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell differentiation involved in neuromast regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of apoptotic body .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lens fiber cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lens fiber cell of early endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lens fiber cell of late endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lens fiber cell of late endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lens fiber cell of organelle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lens epithelium of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  activation of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lens fiber cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of estradiol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of 11 - oxotestosterone .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oocyte stage iv of oocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  female organism of ovulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  oocyte stage iv of meiosis ii nuclear envelope disassembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  flagellated sperm motility .
abnormal ( ly )  proportionality to  ( of )  female organism  ( male organism )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased female fertility  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  female organism  ( oocyte stage v )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ovary  ( ovarian follicle stage iv )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  testis  ( sperm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  testis  ( spermatocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  testis  ( spermatogonium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of endocardial cushion formation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  atrioventricular canal  ( atrioventricular canal of endocardial cushion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  ventralized  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neuroectoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  lateral crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  macula of ciliary base .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  macula of ciliary base .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral crista of intraciliary transport particle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  olfactory epithelium of intraciliary transport particle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  post - vent region of neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of notch signaling involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  ventricular endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gonad of germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  testis of germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  gonad of somatic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  oogonia .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  testis of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  spermatogonium .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  spermatogonium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of cholangiocarcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  liver of hepatocholangiocellular carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  proportionality to  ( of )  male organism  ( female organism )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood of estradiol .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  immature gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of testosterone .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  male organism of estradiol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of estradiol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of 11 - oxotestosterone .
abnormal ( ly )  male fertility  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cleithrum of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart valve .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  palate of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  palate of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  palate of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  nasal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  caudal peduncle of vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  caudal peduncle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cranium of horizontal plane .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fin of dermis .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  paired fin .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  median fin .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  lepidotrichium segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  melanophore stripe  ( melanophore stripe )  .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gonad primordium of germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  gonad primordium of somatic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gonad primordium of somatic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gonad primordium of somatic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gonad primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  immature gonad of germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  gonad primordium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gonad of germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sertoli cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of 17alpha - hydroxyprogesterone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cortisol .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of 21 - deoxycortisol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 21 - deoxycortisol .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  steroid biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cellular response to osmotic stress .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neurohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  interrenal gland .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  interrenal gland .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  interrenal gland .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of thromboblast .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor cell outer segment organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor cell outer segment organization .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal rod cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor cell cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal cone cell  ( retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retinal rod cell  ( retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  melanocyte of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal cone cell of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of retinal cone cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of ciliary base .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  head kidney of myeloid leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  head kidney of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  spleen .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  fertilization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fertility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  cleft  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  spinal cord of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  posterior lateral line of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  head of embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  caudal fin of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  spherical  ( of )  somite of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased adhesivity  ( of )  somite of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  embryonic structure .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial tip cell  ( endothelial tip cell of filopodium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  epidermal cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( spinal cord of glioblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  otolith of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  hair cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  spinal cord of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  afferent neuron of neuron projection terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  afferent neuron of neuron projection terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  afferent neuron of neuron projection terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of apoptotic body .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hair cell of cytosol .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart of heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of otolith development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of motile cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pronephros of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pancreatic a cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  telencephalon of microglial cell activation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  telencephalon of microglial cell activation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  telencephalon of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  radial glial cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  determination of intestine left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  midbrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( forerunner cell group )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  myotome of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle fiber development .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  muscle cell  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of dorso - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  rhombomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  presumptive neural retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive neural retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of dopamine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  neuromast of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric tubule of motile cilium  ( pronephric tubule of inner dynein arm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric tubule of motile cilium  ( pronephric tubule of outer dynein arm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  pronephric tubule of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypothalamus of dorso - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hypothalamus of dorso - medial region  ( hypothalamus of peptidergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to osmotic stress .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of cellular response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of cellular response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of trabecula formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventricular trabecula myocardium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  ventricular myocardium  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of calcium atom .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of magnesium atom .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of phosphorus atom .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  thymus of precursor t - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma / leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  whole organism of cell surface .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cranial motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  oblique orientation  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of obsolete plasma membrane part of cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart of focal adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of reactive oxygen species .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  liver of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  liver of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart of reactive oxygen species .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  liver of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endocrine pancreas  ( endocrine cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  pancreatic acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  liver of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  pancreas of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( intrahepatic bile duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  angiogenic sprout of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cerebellar central artery of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  middle mesencephalic central artery of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  nasal ciliary artery of angiogenic sprout  ( dorsal ciliary vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mesencephalic vein of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  permeability  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  dorsal aorta of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  differentiated  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestine of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of adenocarcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  mid intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  notochord development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rop motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  tapered  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thymus of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  t cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  locus coeruleus of noradrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  wakefulness .
abnormal ( ly )  duration  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  wakefulness .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  circadian sleep / wake cycle ,  wakefulness .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of peptidergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( peptidergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal periventricular hypothalamus of serotonin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal periventricular hypothalamus of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  caudal periventricular hypothalamus of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  caudal periventricular hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of anterograde axonal transport .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  olfactory bulb of neural crest cell fate specification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  head of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory pit of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory pit of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina of retina layer formation .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned towards  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon  ( optic tectum of ipsilateral side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic nerve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic nerve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned towards  ( of )  cranial nerve ii  ( optic tectum of ipsilateral side )  .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  spinal cord of mitotic sister chromatid segregation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic g1 phase .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic s phase .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mitotic g2 / m transition checkpoint .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  anterior macula of tether cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  posterior macula of tether cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior lateral line placode .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  otic vesicle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  integument of apical junction complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  otic epithelium of apical junction complex .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  macula utricle of hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral line placode .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retroarticular .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( pronephric capsular space )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endocardial cushion of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( palatoquadrate arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  diencephalon of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  diencephalon of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic nerve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  entopterygoid of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of rate  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of axonogenesis involved in innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  atrium of axonogenesis involved in innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myocardium of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of peripheral nervous system axon ensheathment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  migratory neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  torus lateralis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neural plate border .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of growth hormone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of thyroid stimulating hormone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of luteinizing hormone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of follicle stimulating hormone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of prolactin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  follicle stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart trabecula formation .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  basihyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  basihyal cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  eating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  gut  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  surrounding  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell of cytoplasm  ( posterior lateral line nerve of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  surrounding  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve of myelin sheath  ( posterior lateral line nerve of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  myelin maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  retina of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myocardium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  endocardium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of perikaryon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk of lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intersegmental lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  post - vent region of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  post - vent region of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  macrophage differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  midbrain of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 11 - oxotestosterone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of brain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  male organism of testis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spermatid development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  unfertilized egg .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  sertoli cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  granulosa cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  male organism of breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  complexity  ( of )  central artery of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central artery of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  central artery of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  evl of nucleus  ( evl of nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  cell  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  blurry  ( of )  blastomere of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cell of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lens of obsolete cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle of acetylcholine - gated channel complex .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  t - shaped  ( of )  neural plate of posterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  brain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of neuron projection development .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum  ( optic tectum of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of neuron projection development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum  ( optic tectum of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  oocyte stage i of establishment of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased life span  ( of )  oocyte stage i of mitochondrial cloud .
abnormal ( ly )  polarity  ( of )  oocyte stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  central canal .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  oocyte stage i of establishment of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  oocyte stage i of organelle disassembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral mesoderm of hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm of hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral thalamus of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ventral thalamus of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ventral thalamus of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral thalamus of lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of mapk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of pancreatic acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of pancreatic acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  head of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intestinal lipid absorption .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  liver of cholesteryl ester .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  head of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  head of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  head of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral thalamus of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephros of monocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  basophilic erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  neutrophil  ( neuroblast of regenerating tissue )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  neutrophil  ( regenerating fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intermediate reticular formation of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  region of the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fascicle of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  intermediate reticular formation of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  region of the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fascicle of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pineal complex of animal organ formation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  habenula of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  habenula of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pinealocyte of pineal gland development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pineal complex of cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pinealocyte of cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epiphysis of photoreceptor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  parapineal organ of animal organ formation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epiphysis of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epiphysis of photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pineal complex  ( parapineal organ )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pineal complex  ( pinealocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  parapineal organ .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pinealocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of estrogen .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  epiphysis of neuron projection development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epiphysis of visible light photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  median fin .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  paired fin .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  median fin .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spinal cord of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  roof plate of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  roof plate of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  floor plate spinal cord region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of dorsal side .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  retina of peripheral region .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  retina of mitotic cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina of peripheral region  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina of peripheral region  ( retinal rod cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of cell morphogenesis involved in neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  caudal fin of muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  telencephalon of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cerebellum of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  medulla oblongata of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephros of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  olfactory bulb of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  otic vesicle of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephros of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  otic vesicle of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephros of ciliary membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ciliary basal body - plasma membrane docking .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  brush border epithelial cell of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  peptidylglycine monooxygenase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  swim bladder of surfactant homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  swim bladder of surfactant homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  melanocyte of melanin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte of cellular pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  eye of iridophore differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum of posterior region  ( optic tectum of autophagosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum of posterior region  ( optic tectum of lysosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of lysosome localization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  iridophore of pigment granule organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  iridophore differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  iridophore  ( iridophore of iridosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  integument of melanocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  integument of iridophore differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  swim bladder of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  swim bladder of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  glioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of homocysteine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of natural killer cell .
abnormal ( ly )  direction  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  common bile duct of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of hepatocellular adenoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of cholangiocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  common bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  increased circumference  ( of )  common bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  melanocyte of melanin .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum of posterior region  ( optic tectum of lysosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of lysosome localization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  hindbrain of central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  eye of transverse plane .
abnormal ( ly )  folded  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  folded  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  closure of optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  enteric nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  intestine of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  intestine of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  intestine of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  hatching behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  gill filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  hemostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  slow muscle cell of striated muscle myosin thick filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  slow muscle cell of striated muscle thin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  slow muscle cell of myosin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of skeletal muscle myosin thick filament assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of skeletal muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  slow muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  slow muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  myotome of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory system .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vein of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  intersegmental vein of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  male organism of sperm motility .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  fertilization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased male fertility  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  medial facial lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased sensitivity of a process  ( of )  startle response  ( sensory perception of sound )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  xanthophore of pigment biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spiral neuron of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spiral neuron of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spiral neuron of axon terminus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spiral neuron of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spiral neuron of membrane depolarization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spiral neuron of membrane depolarization during action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  testis of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of male pigmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  male organism of pleuroperitoneal cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  female organism of pleuroperitoneal cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  developmental process involved in reproduction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  male gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  peramorphic growth  ( of )  male gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  development of primary sexual characteristics .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  development of primary male sexual characteristics .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spermatid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oogonia .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  forerunner cell group of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  testis of somatic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  oocyte stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  testis of leydig cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blastodisc of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  inner ear of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  optic cup of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic cup of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  basement membrane disassembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal rod cell of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  retinal rod cell of retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of apical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of copper - 63 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain of copper - 63 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retina of copper - 63 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  nervous system of copper - 63 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kidney of copper - 63 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of copper - 63 .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  brain of zinc - 65 atom .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  liver of zinc - 65 atom .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  retina of zinc - 65 atom .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  kidney of zinc - 65 atom .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of apical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of cell body membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mrna cis splicing ,  via spliceosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  embryonic pattern specification .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  presumptive endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  presumptive mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  presumptive mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  lateral rectus of tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  lateral rectus of tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  midbrain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  midbrain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  midbrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  midbrain of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  epiboly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  mitotic g2 phase .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  scale of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  fin of scale .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of cholinergic synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric duct of regulation of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct  ( pronephric duct of autophagosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  liver of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  liver of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  enterocyte of endoplasmic reticulum lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  enterocyte of lipid droplet .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of low - density lipoprotein particle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intestine of lipid homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  hindbrain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of dorso - lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  forebrain of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  third ventricle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  medulla oblongata .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  motor neuron of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  associated with  ( of )  microglial cell  ( motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased fecundity  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  frontal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  opercular flap .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iv .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  hyperosmotic salinity response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  behavioral defense response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  exploration behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  embryonic hemopoiesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of homocysteine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  whole organism of hemoglobin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 10 - formyltetrahydrofolate ( 2 -  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of tetrahydrofolate .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pericardial cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  pericardial cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of tetrahydrofolate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( caudal vein of anatomical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  musculoskeletal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  del .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  blastoderm  ( yolk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epiblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cell of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  multicellular organismal reproductive process .
abnormal ( ly )  fecundity  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass density  ( of )  liver of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  liver of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of cholangiocarcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of hepatocellular carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  liver of fibroma .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  liver of bile .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of reticular cell .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  liver of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  liver of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mesodermal cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  blastoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  caudal fin of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal fin of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventral fin fold of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( caudal fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cranial blood vessel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endoderm of cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrium of determination of heart left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac atrium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  atrial myocardium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  atrium of cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrium of myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  atrium of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  physical quality of a process  ( of )  response to hypoxia .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior of muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  interhyoideus of muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mandibular muscle of tendon formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hyoid muscle of tendon formation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  interhyoideus of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior of determination of muscle attachment site .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  interhyoideus of determination of muscle attachment site .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  sternohyoid of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis anterior of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hyohyoideus of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  basihyal cartilage of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  sternohyoid of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mandibular muscle of tendon development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hyoid muscle of tendon development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  basihyal cartilage of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  adenohypophyseal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  thymus primordium  ( lymphocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of membrane raft .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  paired fin .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  iris of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  anterior chamber eye .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  anterior segment eye of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye of cartilage tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  anterior segment eye of cartilage tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  opacity  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  iris .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  iris .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  corneal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  corneal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  corneal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  corneal stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  corneal stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  corneal stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  corneal stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  corneal stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  corneal stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  corneal endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  corneal endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  corneal endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  iris stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lens capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior chamber eye .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior chamber eye .
abnormal ( ly )  abutting  ( of )  cornea  ( lens capsule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  annular ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular thickness  ( of )  corneal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular thickness  ( of )  corneal stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  axial mesoderm of mediolateral intercalation .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  notochord of lateral margin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  notochord of cell - cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  left / right pattern formation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  palate of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  splanchnocranium of skeletal muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  interhyoideus of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interhyoideus of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interhyoideus of a band .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interhyoideus of i band .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  central nervous system of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  brain of ventro - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  floor plate spinal cord region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  germ ring of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  axial mesoderm of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  axial mesoderm of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of neuronal signal transduction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of neuronal signal transduction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of neuronal signal transduction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of neuronal signal transduction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon of neuronal signal transduction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mesendoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of glycogen .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hepatocyte of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hepatocyte of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hepatocyte of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hepatocyte of intracellular canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  bile acid secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  bile acid secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hepatocyte  ( hepatocyte of autophagosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  hepatocyte of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  hepatocyte of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  hepatocyte of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gut epithelium of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hepatocyte of intracellular canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium of fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  regenerating fin of caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  periderm of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestinal bulb of brush border epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve x of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intestinal motility .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventricular epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  facial lymphatic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lymph vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thoracic duct of intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primordial germ cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primordial germ cell of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  transformed to  ( of )  primordial germ cell  ( somatic cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  closure of optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retina of cell cycle arrest .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retina of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retinal cell apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  degree of pigmentation  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac muscle myoblast of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  map kinase kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  osteoblast differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lens morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lens fiber cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal rod cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor cell maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell of photoreceptor cell maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retina of uv sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  retina of uv sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of green sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of red sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cysteine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cystine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of glutathione disulfide .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of slit diaphragm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of cystine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart of cystine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of cystine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kidney of cystine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of neutrophilic myelocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of neutrophilic metamyelocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  memory .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  response to misfolded protein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  response to misfolded protein .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  female organism of oocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  male organism of spermatogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  male organism of sperm ejaculation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  male organism of development of secondary female sexual characteristics .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  female organism of development of secondary female sexual characteristics .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  male organism of development of secondary male sexual characteristics .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  female organism of ovary  ( oocyte stage ii )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  female organism of ovary  ( oocyte stage iii )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  female organism of ovary  ( oocyte stage i )  .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse  ( of )  male organism of trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse  ( of )  female organism of trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  male organism of urogenital papilla .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  female organism of urogenital papilla .
abnormal ( ly )  white  ( of )  male organism of anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  white  ( of )  female organism of anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  male organism of seminiferous tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  male organism of seminiferous tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  male organism of spermatogenic cyst .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  male organism of spermatogenic cyst .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  male organism of spermatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  ovary of oocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  testis of spermatid development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  immature gonad of gonad morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  female organism of ovary  ( oocyte stage iii )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  testis  ( spermatid )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retina of detection of light stimulus involved in visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  photoreceptor inner segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  innate immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  positive regulation of nik / nf - kappab signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  epidermis of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  epidermis of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  epidermis of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  atrial cardiac muscle cell action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( pectoral fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  t cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cartilage tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of glioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of glioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thymus of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  t cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  t cell of cell maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  facial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  facial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  vagal ganglion 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vagal ganglion 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  vagal ganglion 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vagal ganglion 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  vagal ganglion 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  vagal ganglion 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epidermis morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  ectoderm  ( somite )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventral fin fold of epidermis morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  ventral fin fold of epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased speed  ( of )  ventral fin fold of epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ectoderm of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  islet .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  epibranchial placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  epibranchial placode .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epibranchial placode .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  notochord  ( prechordal plate )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  forerunner cell group of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  presumptive ventral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  notochord of obsolete cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mediolateral intercalation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  somite of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  retina of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cell migration involved in mesendoderm migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endoderm of extracellular matrix .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  extracellular matrix organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fibronectin fibril organization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 1 of antero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 1 of antero - dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of anterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hindbrain of anterior margin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  corpus cerebelli  ( parallel fiber )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell precursor tangential migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  gene silencing by mirna .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  primary mirna processing .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive dorsal mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  whole organism of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  corpus cerebelli of cerebellar granule cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  granular eminence of cerebellar granule cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  medial caudal lobe of cerebellar granule cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  corpus cerebelli of cerebellar granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  granular eminence of cerebellar granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  medial caudal lobe of cerebellar granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellum of glutamatergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  corpus cerebelli  ( cerebellar granule cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  granular eminence  ( cerebellar granule cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  medial caudal lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  medial caudal lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  medial caudal lobe  ( cerebellar granule cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of hemoglobin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth  ( mandibular arch skeleton )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  active  ( of )  osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth of tooth mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  tooth replacement .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  dentinogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  tooth placode .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  tooth pulp .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass density  ( of )  tooth pulp .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  odontoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  hyperosmotic salinity response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of iron ( 3 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of iron ( 3 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gut of iron ( 3 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of iron ( 3 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of iron ( 3 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  palate of cartilage tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  hypothalamus of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of hypocretin - secreting neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  insulin - like growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  superior raphe nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  locus coeruleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  vertebra of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye of melanin .
abnormal ( ly )  weight  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuron development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  medulla oblongata of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of magnesium ( 2 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  post - vent region of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  yolk of metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelination in peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelination of posterior lateral line nerve axons .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( posterior lateral line of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line of immature schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line of immature schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line of schwann cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  caudal fin of i - kappab kinase / nf - kappab signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( meckel's cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  post - vent vasculature  ( post - vent vasculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sensory perception of taste .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  behavioral fear response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of preoptic area .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  eye of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  closure  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  regenerating tissue of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased depth  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( posterior lateral line of immature schwann cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( caudal vein plexus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  epidermis of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus medulla oblongata of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  head of startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  trunk of startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  head of thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  trunk of thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  diffuse nucleus inferior lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral hypothalamic zone .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  vasculature of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  lumenized  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  dorsal aorta of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  opercular flap of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  opercular flap  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regenerating fin of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  regenerating fin of artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  regenerating fin of artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  regenerating fin of vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  regenerating fin of vein .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  brain of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  brain of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  brain of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  artery of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vein of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( regenerating fin of vasculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vein of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  intersegmental vein of vein .
abnormal ( ly )  proportionality to  ( of )  intersegmental vein of arteriole  ( intersegmental vein of vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  intersegmental vein of arteriole .
abnormal ( ly )  increased velocity  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased velocity  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intersegmental vein of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  intersegmental vein  ( dorsal aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  intersegmental vein  ( posterior caudal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lumenized  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of gap junction .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mauthner neuron of gap junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of gap junction assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mauthner neuron of gap junction assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of gap junction - mediated intercellular transport .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  mauthner neuron of gap junction - mediated intercellular transport .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spinal cord of neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 2 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 2 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 2 of migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  rhombomere 2 of migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  rhombomere 2 of migratory cranial neural crest  ( rhombomere 4 of migratory cranial neural crest )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mid3cm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of anterior / posterior compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 2 of migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of hemoglobin .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retina of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of periciliary membrane compartment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of periciliary membrane compartment .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  cranial division of the internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  basal communicating artery  ( primordial midbrain channel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  basal communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  basal communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  posterior communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  posterior communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  basilar artery  ( primordial hindbrain channel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  central canal of detection of mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  central canal of mechanoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of neuron projection  ( central zone olfactory bulb )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  dorsal zone olfactory bulb  ( olfactory receptor cell of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of neuron projection  ( dorsal zone olfactory bulb )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  central zone olfactory bulb  ( olfactory receptor cell of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  mag1  ( olfactory receptor cell of neuron projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of cerebrospinal fluid circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  central canal of mechanoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  central canal of mechanoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  vertebral column of skeletal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  convex  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of glucagon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  motor neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of double - strand break repair .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of cell proliferation involved in pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  interrenal primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  interrenal primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  polyploid  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  polyploid  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primary islet of pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neural crest of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of mesenchyme derived from head neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  trunk musculature of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  trunk musculature of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  trunk musculature of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of regulation of cell shape .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of regulation of cell size .
abnormal ( ly )  volume  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of anatomical space .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood cell  ( caudal fin of anatomical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood cell  ( yolk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  brain of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hindbrain of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  retina of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  central artery of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  central artery of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  middle mesencephalic central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  central artery of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  caudal vein of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  caudal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus development .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus  ( pronephric podocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus  ( pronephric podocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regenerating tissue of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  caudal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pterygoid process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  maxilla of bony projection .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  maxilla of bony projection .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  quadrate - anguloarticular joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  cardiac muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  cardiac muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regenerating tissue of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephros  ( pronephric podocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  exocrine pancreas of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of catecholamine .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of adrenaline .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of noradrenaline .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of homovanillic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  dark adaptation .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of serotonin .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( eye )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  brain of axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  gabaergic neuron of axon arborization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of negative regulation of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  normal area  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  normal length  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  brain of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular spatiotemporal quality  ( of )  ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  trunk musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( bone tissue )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pelvic fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity  ( bone tissue )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity  ( cartilage tissue )  .
abnormal ( ly )  osseous  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  bone tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lens of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  height  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  rhombomere 3 of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  muller cell of cell dedifferentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of retina .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of retina .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventral - most region  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  veld of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  veld of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of medial region  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  veld of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  veld of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventro - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventro - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventro - medial region  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  primary motor neuron of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  veld  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  glutamatergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventral - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  somite development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  auditory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  iridoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  eye of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuroblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  radial glial cell of stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blastomere of ribonucleoprotein complex .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  blastomere of ribonucleoprotein complex  ( blastodisc of peripheral region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  actin filament organization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of lysosomal lumen acidification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rostral pars anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rostral pars anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  proximal pars anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  proximal pars anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  regulation of cortisol secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of copper - 63 .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  notochord of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of alpha - tocopherol .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  spleen .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  proteasome - mediated ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of low - density lipoprotein cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of visceral fat .
abnormal ( ly )  magnitude  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  magnitude  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lens of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  lens of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lens of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lens of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  normal diameter  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lens fiber cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pharyngeal arch  ( angioblastic mesenchymal cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  levator arcus palatini .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  adductor operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dilatator operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  levator operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  adductor mandibulae .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interhyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  adductor hyomandibulae .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  anterior orientation  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cilium movement involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  enteric smooth muscle cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pharynx development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( interneuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of glioblastoma .
abnormal ( ly )  normal life span  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventral - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventral - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventral - most region  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of medial region  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of medial region  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventro - medial region  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  glutamatergic neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  veld  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  radial glial cell of cell quiescence .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  eye of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratohyal - interhyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  interhyal - hyosymplectic joint .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of membrane depolarization during action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of stereocilium bundle  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  articulated with  ( of )  symplectic  ( hyomandibula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage  ( joint )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  hindbrain neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  ovarian follicle of stromal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  ovarian follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of medial region  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of medial region  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrium of cardiac jelly development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  atrium of cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac jelly development .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  atrium of cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  neuromast of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  posterior crista of kinocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  fertile  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  otic vesicle of otolith formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  ovate  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  otic vesicle of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  otic vesicle of otolith formation .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventral - most region  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  dorsal aorta of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal aorta of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventral - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventral - most region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( kolmer - agduhr neuron of medial region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventro - medial region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  veld .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  veld .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventro - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventral - most region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of anterior region  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte  ( intermediate cell mass of mesoderm of posterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic cell of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sperm of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sperm of inner dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sperm of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sperm of sperm flagellum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sperm of outer dynein arm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  flagellated sperm motility .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  midbrain of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  retina of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  optic tectum of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mitotic s phase .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  optic tectum of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  central zone of the optic tectum of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  optic tectum of proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  sperm of axonemal dynein complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased depth  ( of )  anterior chamber eye .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of artery .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cap motoneuron of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol .
abnormal ( ly )  asynchronous  ( of )  cap motoneuron of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  involuntary skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell of vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  rna 3' uridylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  proteasome - mediated ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell  ( skeletal muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril )  .
abnormal ( ly )  magnitude  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  afferent neuron of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  afferent neuron of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of afferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  physical quality of a process  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cilium movement involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  elliptic  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  gut of determination of digestive tract left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of vacuolar transport .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of anterior region  ( kupffer's vesicle of vacuole )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of posterior region  ( kupffer's vesicle of vacuole )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  columnar  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  sperm of proximal side .
abnormal ( ly )  immobile  ( of )  sperm of distal side .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  sperm of sperm flagellum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  sperm of sperm flagellum .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of sphingolipid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle satellite cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  normal fertility  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of very long - chain fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  very long - chain fatty acid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  brain of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of cellular response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of membrane depolarization during action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cephalic mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  axial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  axial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellar central artery of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mesencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  basal communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellar central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior mesencephalic central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  metencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  gabaergic neuron of inhibitory synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( hindbrain of inhibitory synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( spinal cord of inhibitory synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  telencephalon  ( telencephalon of inhibitory synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum  ( optic tectum of inhibitory synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain of postsynaptic density .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of postsynaptic density .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain of gaba - ergic synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of gaba - ergic synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hindbrain of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  spinal cord of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  telencephalon of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  optic tectum of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  barbel of skin development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  barbel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  barbel .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  lens of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lens fiber cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lens epithelium of early endosome to late endosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lens epithelium of early endosome to recycling endosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  heart of tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  endocardium of endothelial cell  ( heart of anatomical space )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  heart valve .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  trabecular  ( of )  heart valve .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle primitive heart tube of cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cardioblast migration to the midline involved in heart field formation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  determination of left / right asymmetry in nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  posterior orientation  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  gut of determination of digestive tract left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( kolmer - agduhr neuron of ventral - most region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( veld )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of copper - 63 .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  intestinal rod of endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  split bilaterally  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  split bilaterally  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oocyte growth .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  female mating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blastodisc of peripheral region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blastomere of cleavage furrow  ( blastodisc of ribonucleoprotein complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  blastomere of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 1 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 5 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 2 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 3 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 7 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 4 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 10 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 6 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  somite 9 of somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of cortisol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of serotonin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of noradrenaline .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  diencephalon of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of nitric oxide mediated signal transduction .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  response to environmental enrichment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  radial glial cell of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  radial glial cell of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  mauthner neuron of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  establishment of left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  interhyal - hyosymplectic joint .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myotome of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  copa of neuronal cell body membrane  ( copa of glutamatergic synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuronal cell body membrane  ( cap motoneuron of inhibitory synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuronal cell body membrane  ( cap motoneuron of glutamatergic synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  copa of excitatory synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cap motoneuron of excitatory synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cap motoneuron of inhibitory synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  normal rate  ( of )  involuntary skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  skeletal muscle of vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of actin cytoskeleton  ( vertical myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuronal cell body membrane  ( cap motoneuron of glutamatergic synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cap motoneuron of excitatory synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neutrophil of peroxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius of specification of animal organ identity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius of specification of animal organ identity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius of embryonic organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  lamina rara interna .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ependymal cell of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  inactive  ( of )  ependymal cell of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  central canal of cerebrospinal fluid circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  brain of midsagittal plane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intermediate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dna damage response ,  signal transduction by p53 class mediator resulting in cell cycle arrest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cell cycle arrest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dermis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  eye of catechol oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  melanocyte of catechol oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neural tube of midsagittal plane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural tube of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0005913 .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neural tube of specification of symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neural tube of plasma membrane region .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  determination of left / right asymmetry in lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  determination of heart left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  determination of digestive tract left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  snout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  olfactory bulb of olfactory receptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  blastomere of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blastomere of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  palatocerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain vasculature of vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain vasculature of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain vasculature of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lateral crista of stereocilia tip link .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  enteric nervous system development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neural tube of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neural tube of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neural tube of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neural tube of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neural tube of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural tube of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  slow muscle cell of muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of lumen formation ,  open tracheal system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neural tube of lumen formation ,  open tracheal system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of glial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of glial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius of embryonic organ development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  negative regulation of convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  scale primordium of developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  scale of anatomical structure development .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  reissner's fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  reissner's fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  reissner's fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of acetylcholinesterase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior lateral line development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion  ( posterior lateral line placode )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  pronephros of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephros of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  lateral line primordium of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  peridermal cell of endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  epidermis of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  peridermal cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has number of  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ventral fin fold of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  color pattern  ( of )  ventral fin fold of regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  opercle of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hyomandibula of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct epithelial cell of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neuromast support cell of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast support cell of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal aorta of alkaline phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  abutting  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath  ( neuron of cell body )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  melanocyte of catechol oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of basolateral plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chromatin organization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  centrum of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hemal arch of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neural arch of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  osteoblast  ( rib )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal aorta of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vascular cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  vh ionocyte of proton transmembrane transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  vh ionocyte of proton transmembrane transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ependymal cell of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of motile cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of ependymal cell  ( ependymal cell of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage of reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic vesicle of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic stalk of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic cup of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic fissure of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephros of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  pronephros of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  metastatic  ( of )  whole organism of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of ampa glutamate receptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  mauthner neuron of nmda glutamate receptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of nmda glutamate receptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of phosphodiesterase i activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  female organism of lipoprotein lipase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of establishment of animal organ orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( heart tube )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  integument of gtpase activator activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  neutrophil of inflammatory response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  neutrophil of inflammatory response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestine of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of vesicle  ( photoreceptor cell of apical region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of laminin binding .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  tectal neuropile .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intestine lumen of chitin synthase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  coelom of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  eye of sarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  coelom .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of heme .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neutrophil of secretory granule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 4 of mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of ventricular cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( compact layer of ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central nervous system of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct opening .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  whole organism of intra - epithelial neoplasia .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  central artery of blood vessel lumenization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  osteoblast of alkaline phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  retina of tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of protein kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  muscle of amp - activated protein kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  blastomere of ribonucleoprotein granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  blastomere of ribonucleoprotein granule  ( blastomere of cleavage furrow )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  blastomere of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  scale of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  eroding  ( of )  fin .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  pericardial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hatching gland .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  extraembryonic structure of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  motor behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  forebrain of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  forebrain of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood vessel of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thyroid follicle of thyroxine .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 6 of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 3 of angioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 4 of angioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 5 of angioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  gut epithelium of alkaline phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  caudal fin of fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  vh ionocyte of proton transmembrane transport .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intestine of lipase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  gut of acetylcholinesterase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of adenosine deaminase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of catalase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of glutathione transferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of glutathione peroxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of antioxidant activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of dorsal side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal aorta of dorsal side .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of catalase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of glutathione transferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of peroxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of superoxide dismutase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  locomotory exploration behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  telencephalon  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  olfactory bulb  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  preoptic area  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  optic tectum of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  muscle of hexokinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  liver of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  muscle of pyruvate kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of monoamine oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain of acetylcholinesterase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of acetylcholinesterase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  male organism of liver .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  female organism of liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gall bladder of fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  growth of symbiont in host .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  growth of symbiont in host .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ovary of prostaglandin e2 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ovary of prostaglandin f2alpha .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  ovulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage iv .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cardioblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  erythrocyte aggregation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  joint of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  regenerating fin of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating fin of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  frequency  ( of )  swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  circadian behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of locomotor rhythm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  raphe nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  chromosome condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  sodium ion import across plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of heme .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  kidney of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  kidney of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  retina of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage v .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage v .
abnormal ( ly )  in contact with  ( of )  micropylar cell of apical plasma membrane  ( oocyte stage iii of plasma membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  micropylar cell of apical part of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iii of chorion micropyle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of determination of left / right asymmetry in lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised proximally  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of hemoglobin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  frequency  ( of )  fast muscle cell of mini excitatory postsynaptic potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  response to stress .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iii  ( micropylar cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  micropylar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  eye of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  kidney of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intestine of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of nadh dehydrogenase  ( ubiquinone )  activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  floor plate of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  response to heat .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  regenerating tissue of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating tissue of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  muscle of wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  opercle of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  opercle of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  disconnected  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  trunk of sterol .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cholesterol transport .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  retina of dorsal side  ( retinal rod cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina of dorsal side  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina of ventral side  ( retinal cone cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retina of ventral side  ( retinal rod cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 of blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 of blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 of blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 of blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  aortic arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  opercle of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hyomandibula of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  disconnected  ( of )  bile ductule of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum of dorso - lateral region  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  brain of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  microvillous olfactory receptor neuron of olfactory receptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  eye of catechol oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  melanocyte of catechol oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of camp - dependent protein kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  leukocyte of nitric - oxide synthase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  central artery of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  midbrain of blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  central artery of blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  central artery of blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hindbrain of central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  midbrain morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypodermal cell of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  peritoneum of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypodermal cell of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic choroid vascular plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pericardial region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  mesencephalic vein of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  central nervous system of central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  peripheral nervous system of myelination in peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  central nervous system of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  peripheral nervous system of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  trunk of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  trunk of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer  ( retinal ganglion cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal diameter  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  notched  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of voltage - gated sodium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of chitinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of ubiquinol - cytochrome - c reductase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  brain of hexosaminidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of alanine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of adp .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of guanosine 5' - monophosphate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of histidine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of glutamine .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  glutathione metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of calcium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of heme oxygenase  ( decyclizing )  activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of glutamate - ammonia ligase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage of phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  renal albumin absorption .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  peritoneum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of lateral side .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain vasculature of branching involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  brain vasculature of angiogenic sprout fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  attachment quality  ( of )  central artery  ( basilar artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  central artery  ( central artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gall bladder of lipase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intestine of lipase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of beta - galactosidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myotome of neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hepatoblast of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  regenerating tissue of hepatocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of ventral - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of nadh dehydrogenase  ( ubiquinone )  activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of calcium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of peroxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of mrna  ( 2' - o - methyladenosine - n6 -  )  - methyltransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  liver of mrna  ( 2' - o - methyladenosine - n6 -  )  - methyltransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ovary of mrna  ( 2' - o - methyladenosine - n6 -  )  - methyltransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  testis of mrna  ( 2' - o - methyladenosine - n6 -  )  - methyltransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  muscle of mrna  ( 2' - o - methyladenosine - n6 -  )  - methyltransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cranium of anterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  female organism of lipoprotein lipase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  blood plasma of lipoprotein lipase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  male organism of urogenital papilla .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  male organism of anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  color  ( of )  female organism of anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  ovary of oocyte stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  ovary of oocyte stage iii .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  ovary of oocyte stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  optic furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of glutathione transferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of glutathione transferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  trabecular layer of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of protein n - linked glycosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterior crista of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  occipital lateral line neuromast of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior crista of nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of basal region .
abnormal ( ly )  smooth  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of noradrenaline .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  norepinephrine biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ovary of progesterone receptor binding .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm of anterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  immature eye .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of ventral region  ( oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  peripheral nervous system of myelination in peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line  ( myelinating schwann cell of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased porosity  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  pronephric capsular space .
abnormal ( ly )  blurry  ( of )  atrium of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  atrium of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  atrium of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  atrium of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of i band .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  atrium of i band .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular rhythm  ( of )  cardiac conduction .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  presumptive sinus venosus of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  oocyte stage v of egg activation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  fusion of sperm to egg plasma membrane involved in single fertilization .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  oocyte of micropyle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  sperm - egg recognition .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  unfertilized egg .
abnormal ( ly )  heterotaxic  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  central nervous system of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  central nervous system  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  fusion of sperm to egg plasma membrane involved in single fertilization .
abnormal ( ly )  normal male fertility  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  heart rudiment of peripheral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of alpha - d - galactose 1 - phosphate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of galactose metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  brain of udp - glucose:hexose - 1 - phosphate uridylyltransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  ovary of udp - glucose:hexose - 1 - phosphate uridylyltransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  skeletal muscle of udp - glucose:hexose - 1 - phosphate uridylyltransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  raphe nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  specification of pronephric proximal tubule identity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  specification of pronephric distal tubule identity .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neural rod of plasma membrane region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  male organism of anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  male organism of pectoral fin breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  fertilization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  germ cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  female organism  ( oocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  transparent  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  ovary  ( oocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ovary  ( oocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  transparent  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  testis  ( sperm )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  testis  ( sertoli cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  atretic  ( of )  ovarian follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  spermatogenic cyst .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  spermatogonium .
abnormal ( ly )  has number of  ( of )  caudal fin of regenerating fin  ( regeneration epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  notochord of centriole .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuroectoderm of centriole .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  microtubule organizing center localization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  convergent extension involved in notochord morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of dorsal region  ( oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of ventral region  ( oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  posterior caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  deviation  ( of )  posterior caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  mesencephalic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  hindbrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  purkinje cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  extension of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  brain of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  caudal fin  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of motile cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of ependymal cell  ( ependymal cell of motile cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  central canal  ( reissner's fiber )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  ventricular system  ( reissner's fiber )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  reissner's fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  normal rate  ( of )  central canal of cerebrospinal fluid circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  third ventricle  ( reissner's fiber )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  subcommissural organ .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated  ( of )  spinal cord of neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  split bilaterally  ( of )  neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  normal rate  ( of )  ependymal cell of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  distal orientation  ( of )  ependymal cell of motile cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  renal system .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of chronic inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  retinal cone cell .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  pronephros of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  pronephros of cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephros of cilium movement .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  regenerating fin of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  trunk of neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  tail bud  ( kupffer's vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of synaptic vesicle docking .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of synaptic ribbon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  off - bipolar cell of synaptic signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  vertebral column of ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  vertebra of bone tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  dermis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord inner cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  notochord inner cell  ( notochord inner cell of vacuole )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  motor neuron of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of axon extension involved in regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal region of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of histone h3 - k36 trimethylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  whole organism of histone h3 - k36 dimethylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  somite of medial side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of somite .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  immature eye .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  primordial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primordial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of anterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  somite of ventral side .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  immature eye .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephros of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  periderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  primordial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trunk of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of mapk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of mapk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  central artery of mapk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of protein kinase b signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rhombomere morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  arterial endothelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  venous endothelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  central artery of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  hindbrain of central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  trunk of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of cell proliferation in hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  forebrain of cell proliferation in forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  midbrain of cell proliferation in midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  central artery of blood vessel endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel of vascular endothelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  central artery of vascular endothelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  prechordal plate of cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  sensitivity of a process  ( of )  response to cyanide  ( response to cyanide )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  chorion  ( fertilized egg )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  blastodisc .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  optic tectum of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  optic tectum of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( meckel's cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  angle  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( palatoquadrate cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  angle  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( palatoquadrate cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  precaudal vertebra of hemal arch  ( precaudal vertebra of hemal arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  caudal vertebra of neural arch  ( caudal vertebra of neural arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  weberian vertebra of neural arch  ( weberian vertebra of centrum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  pectoral girdle .
abnormal ( ly )  anterior orientation  ( of )  postcleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  hemal arch  ( hemal arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  exoccipital .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  neural arch  ( neural arch )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  weberian vertebra  ( weberian vertebra )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  oocyte stage ii of chorion micropyle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  oocyte stage iii of chorion micropyle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  oocyte stage ii of oocyte animal / vegetal axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  oocyte stage i of oocyte animal / vegetal axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  oocyte development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage ii  ( micropylar cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iii  ( micropylar cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  unfertilized egg of chorion micropyle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  unfertilized egg  ( unfertilized egg of micropyle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  ruffled  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pelvic fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  abdominal musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  yolk of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  blastomere of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular spatiotemporal quality  ( of )  calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  embryonic cleavage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  chromosome movement towards spindle pole .
abnormal ( ly )  polarity  ( of )  yolk of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  microtubule polymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  microtubule polymerization or depolymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  yolk of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  microtubule polymerization or depolymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  lens capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  lens capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  lens capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  lens  ( retina )  .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  solid lens vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  interopercular - mandibular ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitochondrion organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility  ( of )  neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  yolk of microtubule cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  brain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 1 - piperideine - 6 - carboxylate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of pipecolic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  aortic arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  aortic arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  aortic arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  aortic arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  aortic arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  aortic arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  aortic arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  aortic arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch of embryonic blood vessel endothelial progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 3 of angioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 4 of angioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 5 of angioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 6 of angioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch 3 of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch 4 of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch 5 of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch 6 of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 3 of vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 4 of vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 5 of vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 6 of vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  aortic arch of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  aortic arch of vascular smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  aortic arch 3 of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  aortic arch 4 of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  aortic arch 5 of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  aortic arch 6 of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  aortic arch 3  ( aortic arch 3 of blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  aortic arch 4  ( aortic arch 4 of blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  aortic arch 5  ( aortic arch 5 of blood vessel endothelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  aortic arch 6  ( aortic arch 6 of blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neurocranium of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 3 of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 4 of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 5 of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 3 of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 4 of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 5 of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aortic arch 6 of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  aortic arch of angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  otic sensory epithelium of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic sensory epithelium of stereocilium .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor disc membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  auditory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  macula .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pterygoid process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratobranchial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratobranchial 3 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratobranchial 4 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  motor neuron of axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  myotome of myofibril assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  myotome of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  organized  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  normal rate  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum of ventral region  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil of phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum of ventral region  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum of dorso - lateral region  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum of ventral region  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic tectum of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  microglial cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trabecular layer of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  heart trabecula formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  trabecular layer of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cleavage furrow ingression .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cleavage furrow ingression .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blastomere of calcium ( 2 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blastomere of actin filament - based process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  blastomere of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blastomere of release of sequestered calcium ion into cytosol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  blastomere of mitochondrion  ( blastomere of cleavage furrow )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  blastomere of lysosome  ( blastomere of cleavage furrow )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  blastomere of endoplasmic reticulum  ( blastomere of cleavage furrow )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cerebellum morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cerebellum  ( cerebellar granule cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  cerebellum  ( purkinje cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  unfertilized egg of pseudocleavage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blastomere of microtubule cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventral transverse .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dorsal oblique extraocular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypaxial myotome region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain segmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  parachordal vessel of lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lymphangiogenic sprout of lymphangiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  fatty acid beta - oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of docosahexaenoic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of hemoglobin .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  caudal vein of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal vein of blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood cell of hemoglobin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  thymus of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  vestigial  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  vestigial  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of abducens motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of abducens motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus of neuronal cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus of neuronal cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  rhombomere 6 of abducens motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  rhombomere 5 of abducens motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  primordial germ cell of microtubule organizing center organization .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  primordial germ cell  ( primordial germ cell of microtubule organizing center )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  primordial germ cell of cell division .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neurocranium of cartilage development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled electron transport .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endothelial cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  endothelial cell of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled electron transport .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( basibranchial )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( basihyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( ceratobranchial 5 tooth )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( tooth 5v )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( tooth 4v )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( tooth 3v )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( neurocranial trabecula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 primary tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lateral mesoderm of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( opercle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lens epithelium of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  tension  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  liver of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  liver regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hindbrain of grey matter .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to external stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  sperm of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  sperm of sperm axoneme assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  sperm of sperm flagellum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  sperm of sperm head .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  sperm of sperm head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spermatocyte of regulation of meiotic cell cycle phase transition .
abnormal ( ly )  dislocated  ( of )  sperm of sperm head plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  testis  ( spermatogonium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  symplectic of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of establishment of planar polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of establishment of animal organ orientation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  gut of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thrombocyte of 3' , 5' - cyclic amp .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  atrium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  atrium of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  endothelial cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  3 - d shape  ( of )  endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endocardial cushion formation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  endocardial cushion formation .
abnormal ( ly )  3 - d shape  ( of )  presumptive atrioventricular canal of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart of determination of heart left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  endocardium of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endocardium morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endocardium formation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  heart of heart looping .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  photoreceptor inner segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior lateral line neuromast deposition .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of posterior lateral line neuromast primordium migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of protein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of high - density lipoprotein cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  testis of male gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  ovary of female gonad development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of appetite .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  eating behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus synencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  normal length  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  permeable  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  cranial vasculature of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  palatocerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  palatocerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  scale of myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  scale of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  scale of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  regenerating tissue of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  scale of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  integument of axon  ( integument )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  integument of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  integument of blood vessel  ( integument )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  integument of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  trunk of epidermis  ( sensory neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk of epidermis  ( sensory neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  scale of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  scale of osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ependymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ependymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephric duct of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  ependymal cell of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  pectoral fin of fin regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  regenerating fin of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pectoral fin of regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  pectoral fin of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mandibular lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  otic lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  infraorbital lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  opercular lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  middle lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  temporal distribution quality  ( of )  epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of actomyosin structure organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of actomyosin .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer of marginal blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  infraorbital lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  mandibular lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  otic lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  opercular lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  middle lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  notochord of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  olfactory placode of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  pronephric tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  rotated  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal element .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  oocyte of mitochondrial cloud .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  oocyte of mitochondrial cloud .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  oocyte of mitochondrial cloud .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  blastomere of germ plasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  blastomere of germ plasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  blastomere of germ plasm .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  blastomere of germ plasm .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  blastomere of germ plasm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory placode of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage i of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastomere of germ plasm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  atrial myocardium of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  atrium of cardiac muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( compact layer of ventricle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  forebrain of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  tegmentum of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  head of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  frontal - parietal joint of mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  frontal - parietal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  frontal - parietal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  frontal - parietal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  frontal - parietal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  parietal bone of bone growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  frontal bone of bone growth .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  parietal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  parietal bone of bone growth .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  frontal bone of bone growth .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of ectomesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of ectomesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  parietal bone of osteoblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  frontal bone of osteoblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of apical plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  pronephros .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  forebrain midbrain boundary of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  brain of mitotic cell cycle process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  atrial myocardium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of ventricular cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of ventricular cardiac muscle tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  myotome of compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ventricular endocardium of mapk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retinal rod cell of rod photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  anatomical line .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  endoderm of cell migration involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endoderm of convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  endoderm of convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rostral blood island of granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood island of granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hypermethylation of cpg island .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  fast muscle cell of mini excitatory postsynaptic potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of determination of left / right asymmetry in lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endocrine pancreas of determination of pancreatic left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of smoothened signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  endodermal cell of lamellipodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased life span  ( of )  endodermal cell of lamellipodium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endodermal cell of lamellipodium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endodermal cell of plasma membrane bounded cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  3 - d shape  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  defense response to fungus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased pigmentation  ( of )  melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  color pattern  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  normal pigmentation  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cloaca .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  myocardium of cytosol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  myocardium of cytosol .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myocardium of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myocardium of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrium of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  atrium of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  male organism of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  female organism of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  male organism of atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  female organism of atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regulation of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased weight  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  atrial myocardium  ( atrial myocardium of sarcomere )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventricular myocardium  ( ventricular myocardium of sarcomere )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  caudal fin of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  caudal fin of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  caudal fin of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cone photoresponse recovery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cone photoresponse recovery .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal neural layer of detection of light stimulus involved in visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  retinal cone cell of detection of light stimulus involved in visual perception .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased velocity  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  bent  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of a band .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  skeletal muscle of i band .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  heart valve formation .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  molecular quality  ( of )  blood of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  yolk of ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  yolk of ncc ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of double - stranded dna fragment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  translation .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  blastomere of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  blastomere of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  tubulin complex assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cleavage furrow formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  oocyte stage v of proteolysis .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  fertilized egg of cortical granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cortical granule exocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased elevation  ( of )  chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastomere of nuclear pore .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  oocyte stage v .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  oocyte stage v .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  oocyte  ( oocyte of inclusion body )  .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  female sex differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal commissure  ( caudal commissure of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  rhombomere .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  supraoptic tract  ( supraoptic tract of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of social behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hindbrain of migratory cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  basal communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  basal communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  posterior communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  posterior communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  erythroblast of hemoglobin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  definitive erythrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  eye of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  eye of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  optic furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cellular response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of regulation of calcium ion transmembrane transport .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  spinal cord of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  intestine of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  whole organism of melanoma .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  whole organism of melanoma  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  diameter  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  trunk of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ball of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of neuroblast proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of fibrin .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  regenerating tissue of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  spinal cord of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  heart of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  retina of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  regenerating tissue of retinal neural layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  ovulation .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  opercular flap .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  head  ( barbel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  head  ( barbel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  height  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  whole  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  whole  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  melanophore stripe  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  splanchnocranium of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  regenerating tissue of myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  locomotion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  head of epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk of epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  peridermal cell of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  peridermal cell of endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  epidermis of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  peridermal cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  peridermal cell of perinucleolar compartment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  primary motor neuron of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  primary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neutrophil of heme .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  neutrophil of peroxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  integument of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of heme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  red  ( of )  opercular flap .
abnormal ( ly )  uninflated  ( of )  anterior chamber swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  heart of calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  heart of calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart of calcium ion import .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of heme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myeloid cell of cell chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating fin of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  circulating cell of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  lens of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lens of lens development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  lens of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lens of lens morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lens fiber cell of lens fiber cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  refractivity  ( of )  lens .
abnormal ( ly )  opaque  ( of )  lens of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lens of lens morphogenesis in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  lens fiber cell of lens fiber cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  epiboly involved in gastrulation with mouth forming second .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  embryonic structure  ( yolk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  periderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  melanin biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  fertilization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regenerating fin of neutrophil migration .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  muscle of myofilament .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  lens fiber cell .
abnormal ( ly )  convex 3 - d shape  ( of )  lens fiber cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  heart tube of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  immature eye .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon of ventral region  ( diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal periventricular hypothalamus  ( caudal periventricular hypothalamus of serotonergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  paraventricular organ  ( paraventricular organ of serotonergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal tuberculum of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  raphe nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  diencephalon of ventral region  ( diencephalon of dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  caudal periventricular hypothalamus  ( caudal periventricular hypothalamus of serotonergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  paraventricular organ  ( paraventricular organ of serotonergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  fear response .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  regenerating tissue of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  heart of hyaluronic acid .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endocardial cushion development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac jelly development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  iridophore of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypodermal cell of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  scale of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  regenerating tissue of growth .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  scale primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  scale of anatomical structure development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dermis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric tubule of lysosomal protein catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  scale primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  scale primordium of developmental process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of epidermis morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  scale primordium of epidermis morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  epidermis of tissue migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pronephric tubule of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  pronephric tubule  ( pronephric tubule of autophagosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  renal tubule of autophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage ii of cortical granule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  oocyte stage ii of cortical granule .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrion  ( skeletal muscle of inclusion body )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventral fin fold of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  liver of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium  ( kupffer's vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  inner ear of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  inner ear of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil of cell maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral crista of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral line neuromast of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral crista of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  midbrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  spinal cord of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  post - vent region  ( posterior lateral line neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  lens of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell of maintenance of location .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  chromosome condensation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal convergence .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endodermal cell of dorsal convergence .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  eye of cellular response to oxidative stress .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk musculature of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastomere of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastomere of plasma membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  whole organism of medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 of embryonic blood vessel endothelial progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 of embryonic blood vessel endothelial progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 of embryonic blood vessel endothelial progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to drug .
abnormal ( ly )  constricted  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of apical side .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of basal region  ( cardiac muscle cell of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of actomyosin .
abnormal ( ly )  polarity  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of actomyosin .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  heart of actomyosin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  myocardium of actomyosin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  blastomere of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  blastomere of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  microtubule cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blastomere of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  blastomere of gamma - tubulin small complex .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blastomere of perinuclear region of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  response to virus .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  response to virus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  thrombocyte activation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head kidney of thromboblast .
abnormal ( ly )  accelerated growth  ( of )  axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  tangled  ( of )  caudal fin of vein .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal fin of intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  caudal fin of intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  caudal fin of subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  caudal fin of subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  vein  ( caudal fin of intersegmental vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  vein  ( caudal fin of subintestinal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  aggressive behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  forebrain of axonal fasciculation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  midbrain of axonal fasciculation .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  forebrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  midbrain of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  peripheral nervous system  ( peripheral neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decondensed  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  midbrain  ( dopaminergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endohypothalamic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  trunk of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fast muscle cell of neuromuscular junction of skeletal muscle fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  fast muscle cell of cholinergic synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  hindbrain  ( cranial motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  midbrain  ( cranial motor neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal vein of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of low - density lipoprotein cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  intestine lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  macrophage migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal cone cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  retinal cone cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  retinal cone cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of melanosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  muller cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of phagocytic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratobranchial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratobranchial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratobranchial 3 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratobranchial 3 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratobranchial 4 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of non - lymphoid leukaemias .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of sarcoma .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spleen of b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  b cell activation involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of anterior region  ( oligodendrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of anterior region  ( mauthner neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  abutting  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath  ( neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 of neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 of neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 of neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 of neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of  ( r )  - lactate .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  blood plasma of  ( s )  - lactate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  b cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  t cell activation involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of spinal cord oligodendrocyte cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of spinal cord oligodendrocyte cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of anterior region  ( reticulospinal neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of posterior region  ( reticulospinal neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  reticulospinal neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cell of atp .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal fin of subcutaneous fat .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  calcium import into the mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of mitochondrial membrane potential .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal fin fat .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath  ( neuron of cell body )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  proctodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  head of skeletal element .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  median fin fold of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  pectoral fin of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fin fold pectoral fin bud of proximal region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  renal system development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  renal system .
abnormal ( ly )  blistered  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  nephron .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intersegmental vessel  ( angiogenic sprout )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal vein  ( mesencephalic artery )  .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal vein  ( mesencephalic vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  testis of germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  translucent  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ovary of condensed nuclear chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  testis of condensed nuclear chromosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  spermatocyte of synaptonemal structure .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  meiotic sister chromatid cohesion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chromosome organization involved in meiotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  synaptonemal complex organization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  vertebral column of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cone photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cone photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cone photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  retinal cone cell of cone photoreceptor disc membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  nuclear chromosome segregation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  hindbrain of axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cranial nerve v of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cranial nerve x of axon arborization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cranial nerve ix of axon arborization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve x .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve ix .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain vasculature of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  vestibular reflex .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of central nervous system myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon  ( oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of axis .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  cranial nerve ix .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  periocular mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  transmembrane transporter activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  transmembrane transport .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage ii of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  oocyte stage ii of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  epidermis of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal aorta of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thymus of precursor t - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma / leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  saccule .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of hypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  atp metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin of regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pelvic fin of regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pillar of the semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  response to hypoxia .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  presumptive diencephalon of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  spinal cord neural keel of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  spade - shaped  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primary motor neuron of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primary motor neuron of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neural keel of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural rod of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  sinuous  ( of )  post - vent region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic vesicle of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic cup of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  eye of photoreceptor ribbon synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  extraocular musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  extraocular musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  extraocular musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  medial rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  medial rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  lateral rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal oblique extraocular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral oblique extraocular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  retina of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  periocular mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  optic vesicle of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  myoseptum of cellular anatomical entity .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  skeletal muscle of cellular anatomical entity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cell migration involved in sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell  ( intersegmental vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  optic tectum of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  xanthophore of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  head of macrophage migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  head of macrophage migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  melanocyte of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  mrna splicing ,  via spliceosome .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mrna splice site selection .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  vertical myoseptum of synapse assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  spinal cord of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural keel of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  common cardinal vein of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  metallopeptidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retina of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  male organism of swimming behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  melanocyte migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  myeloid cell of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  circulating cell of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  defense response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  kidney of myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of dihydroceramide .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  semicircular canal of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  pillar of the semicircular canal of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  common crus of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  lateral crista .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  anterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  otic vesicle ventral protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( semicircular canal )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle protrusion of proteoglycan .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle protrusion of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otic vesicle  ( otic vesicle protrusion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle tissue growth involved in heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell cortex .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell cortex .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of cell cortex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of actin filament organization .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of endocytic recycling .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( cardiac muscle cell of recycling endosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart of cardiac muscle tissue growth involved in heart morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac chamber ballooning .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  atrium of cardiac chamber ballooning .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of regulation of embryonic cell shape .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal fin fold of embryonic dorsal fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventral fin fold of embryonic anal fin morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of recycling endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of recycling endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  dorsal fin fold of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  ventral fin fold of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  dorsal fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( myocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  cardiac ventricle  ( cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of postero - medial margin .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  ceratohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  ventral hypohyal bone of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  anguloarticular of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  quadrate of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  symplectic of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  ceratobranchial 2 cartilage of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  premature  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch  ( meckel's cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  viable  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  spade - shaped  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lymph vessel development .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  cardiovascular system  ( thoracic duct )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  cardiovascular system  ( vascular lymphangioblast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of regulation of cytosolic calcium ion concentration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial tip cell of regulation of store - operated calcium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of endothelial tip cell filopodium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of mapk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  normal area  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  normal diameter  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  normal length  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  dorsal aorta of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  perforate  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blue sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  t cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  t cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  growth quality of occurrent  ( of )  eye of organ growth .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  structure ,  cavities  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  normal diameter  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of progesterone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of estradiol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  testis of  ( 20r )  - 17 , 20 - dihydroxypregn - 4 - en - 3 - one .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  polarity  ( of )  oocyte of animal - vegetal axis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  chorion micropyle formation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  micropylar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fertilized egg of pronucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  fertilized egg of micropyle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of pronephric nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule of pronephric nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric tubule  ( pronephric tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neurohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombomere .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gill .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  compound organ .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  portion of tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superficial pretectum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  multi - tissue structure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anatomical line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  zebrafish anatomical entity .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive forebrain midbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 21 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neurocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anatomical cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  embryonic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  median fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral crista .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  capillary loop nephron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  developing mesonephric nephron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial myotome region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 17 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pineal complex .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anatomical group .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  organism subdivision .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superficial caudal fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  acellular anatomical structure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basal plate cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  chondrocranium cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neurogenic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sinoatrial valve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  heart valve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intermediate hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  non neural ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  squamous epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lining cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  embryonic blood vessel endothelial progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superficial adductor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adductor muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endochondral bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  chondral bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endochondral element .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic vesicle protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fibroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  external levatores .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branchial muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cerebellar plate ventral proliferative layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  proliferative region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic radial 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic radial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxialis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  quadrate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  efferent filamental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsolateral placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vestibuloauditory system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  deep caudal fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hindbrain nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medulla oblongata .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  brain nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forebrain midbrain boundary neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  articular cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lower lip .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lip .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive pretectum proliferative zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  embryonic structure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pro - b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preethmoid bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  proximal pars anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 25 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  median tuberal portion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basicapsular fenestra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesonephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin pterygiophore 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin pterygiophore .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  octaval nerve sensory nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  middle lateral line system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral line system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 19 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sphenotic .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  axial hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interrenal primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventricular system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adductor hyomandibulae .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyoid muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  magnocellular superficial pretectal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  diencephalic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  opercular lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inner ear foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral canal eye .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymphangioblast cord .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primordial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinal cord interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cns interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior recess .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anatomical space .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  valvula cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  portion of organism substance .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  perilymphatic space .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial 4 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glomerular layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  frontal - pterotic joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  locus coeruleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior crista primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal octaval nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oral region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal lymphatic network .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymph vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  quadrate - entopterygoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cartilaginous joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epidermal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iv .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  germ line cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pore .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hindbrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cavitated compound organ .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin field .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  receptor cell  ( sensu animalia )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural crest telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior lateral line system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  migratory neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  premigratory trunk neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  migratory trunk neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  motile cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  liver and biliary system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supracleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dermal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ecto - epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neurectodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somatic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primary germ layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral hyoid arch .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  autopalatine - lateral ethmoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lamina orbitonasalis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  chondrocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  visceromotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  transverse canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  regenerating fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  weberian apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  portion of connective tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dermatocranium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intramembranous bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraoccipital - parietal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epiotic - parietal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  frontal - parietal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inter - parietal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blastoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tela chorioidea fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tela chorioidea .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  right liver lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mechanoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adenohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve vi .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotic bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  natural killer cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature natural killer cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glossopharyngeal neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  replacement bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bone element .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  replacement element .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central nucleus inferior lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primordial ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  aortic arch .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 30 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinal cord neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  alar plate midbrain region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cardiac conduction system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  snout .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preural vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyoid neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  striated muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial fat .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  orbital region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endohypothalamic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primary interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate rhombomere region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinal nerve root .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primitive olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic vesicle lateral protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive brain .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ectopterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesocoracoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  scleral cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  coelom .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  reproductive system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral ethmoid - frontal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic choroid vascular plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fin fold actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral girdle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesentery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  coronary artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anatomical conduit .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lagenar capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial funicular nucleus trigeminal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sensory trigeminal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive sinus venosus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pinealocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  maxillary barbel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  barbel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central zone protoglomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory bulb protoglomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spiral neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hindbrain interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  area postrema .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  heart vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth 2v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 primary tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  occipital lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trunk vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  post - vent vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  premigratory neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  argentum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tapetum lucidum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  iridoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  granulosa cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  steroid hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spermatogenic cyst .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  left liver lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 7 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior basicapsular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite border .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anatomical surface .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dermal superficial region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  non - weberian precaudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  precaudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  photoreceptor inner segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  axial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  leucoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 28 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  secondary posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gut endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  skeletal element .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  paired fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 24 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharynx .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cephalic musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preopercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal tooth row .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  efferent branchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mononuclear cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  astrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dermomyotome .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve root .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve x .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cns neuron  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  electrically active cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  noradrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  norepinephrine secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gustatory system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superior ocular sulcus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  groove .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dilatator operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mandibular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventricular zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ovarian follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cartilage element .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fibrous joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gonad primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adaxial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic pp cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngobranchial 3 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  extracellular matrix secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stromal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal rod cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral recess .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 29 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supracleithrum - intercalar ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parasphenoid - basioccipital joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rib .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyaloid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior chamber swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal tuberal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basioccipital - exoccipital joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral line sensory nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stomodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior nasal barbel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mid intestine epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  post - weberian supraneural .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraneural .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inferior olive .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  peripheral cardiac conduction system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic sensory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  autonomic nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  afferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anguloarticular .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic choroid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mandibular lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  angular bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bile canaliculus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  atrioventricular ring .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventro - rostral cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratohyal - ventral hypohyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central nucleus torus semicircularis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  subcommissural organ .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  postcranial axial skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  chondroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adductor profundus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin dorsal procurrent ray .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin procurrent ray .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 19 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  meso - epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kidney epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kidney cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  regeneration epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infraorbital 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infraorbital .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  synovial joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vascular cord .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cardinal system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  axial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  enteric musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal depressor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  depressor muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  occipital lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  diencephalic white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral octaval nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral spinal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  auditory fenestra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interhyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gamma - delta t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature gamma - delta t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cornea .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  region of the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fascicle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral reticular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  melc .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal preglomerular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preglomerular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  electrically responsive cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  electrically signaling cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basioccipital .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inferior caudal dorsal flexor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  flexor muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  folliculostellate cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inclinator muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  facial placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intrapancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  digestive system duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal placode 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin radial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  radial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gold iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  meckel's cartilage - palatoquadrate cartilage joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  horizontal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  commissure of the caudal tuberculum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  postovulatory follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preoperculo - mandibular sensory canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sensory canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basiventral .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  postcranial axial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive structure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  peptide hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  choroid plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immune system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuromere .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  periderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hepatoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  multi fate stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pericardial cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  propterygium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin distal radial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesoderm pelvic fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin proximal radial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin pterygiophore 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory bulb glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anteromedial  zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  middle lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nephrogenic mesenchyme stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  middle lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal hypohyal - urohyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  paired fin cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal placode 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glutamatergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  telencephalic ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  opercle - hyosymplectic joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central pretectum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 4 skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial myotome region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngobranchial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fin blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somatic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  opercular flap .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate diencephalic region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  simple columnar epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gut epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  esophagus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  unilaminar epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclera .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral tooth row .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial division of the internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ameloblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  autopalatine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesoderm pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  arteriole .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal corpuscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kidney vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primary olfactory fiber layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  facial lymphatic network .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  atrial myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tectum synoticum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  secondary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  secondary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 21 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  barrier cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  compound organ component .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myeloblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neutrophil progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myeloid lineage restricted progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal tuberculum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pro - nk cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  deep blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus of the descending root .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior segment eye .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural spine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  reticulospinal neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural postzygapophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  solid lens vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  collagenous dermal stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin adductor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraneural 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventromedial zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cloacal chamber .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  premigratory trunk neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  premigratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trunk neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin radial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  macroglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  third ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral accessory optic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cosa .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 25 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bony projection .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  skeletal tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trunk mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vascular sprouts .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior presumptive neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial caudal lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  maxillary barbel blood sinus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 29 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  auditory capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 19 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gastrula cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  early embryonic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  digestive system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  microcirculatory vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ucod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inner dental epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dental epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral thalamus nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  arrector muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thymus primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dental organ .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glycinergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endocrine system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basophilic erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic radial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mononuclear phagocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin proximal radial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin radial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 26 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  theca cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  androgen secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  scapula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endorphin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  melm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 22 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive neural retina .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesocoracoid bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  zona limitans intrathalamica .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  d cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  enteroendocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somatostatin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial column .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 16 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forebrain midbrain boundary neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  atrial endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cad .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  microvillous olfactory receptor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial 3 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  peripheral olfactory organ .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal retractor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic radial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive lateral nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 20 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  single ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin distal radial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  peritoneum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  serous membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic radial 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 24 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial preglomerular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oocyte stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature macula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ependymoglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  osteoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lacunocanalicular system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oral ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  telencephalic white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infraorbital series .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  labial cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral forebrain bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuroepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  weberian vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal zone of dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  telencephalic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  leucophore .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouches 2 - 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  abductor profundus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  abductor muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  perichondral bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trigeminal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pro - t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parapophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  middle lateral line placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymphatic branchial arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  solid compound organ .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior presumptive neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tunica interna swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  aortic arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epihyal - ceratohyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rol2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature eye .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  afferent filamental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  perijunctional fibroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior lateral line placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  brush border epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  quadrate - metapterygoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  palate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pigment cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neutrophilic myelocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  brainstem and spinal white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial forebrain bundle diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 18 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kolmer - agduhr neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blood cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bruch's membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trabecula cranii .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin pterygiophore 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypobranchial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dermis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 17 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombomere 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preplacodal ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  common cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  comma - shaped body .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyomandibula - metapterygoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral anterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesenchyme derived from trunk neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pars inferior ear .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inter - frontal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retroarticular  process .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cartilaginous projection .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial protoglomerulus 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial protoglomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gill lamella .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal octaval nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  octaval nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic chiasm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinous layer of breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 23 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pillar of the anterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pillar of the semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  paired fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  migratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  brainstem .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  synencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 18 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinal cord neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thyroid primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intervertebral ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kinethmoid cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial forebrain bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  m cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  photopic photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  visible light photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  marginal blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  islet .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mononuclear osteoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dental mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal hypothalamic zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bone tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 20 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal periventricular hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myoepithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral oblique extraocular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  photoreceptor outer segment layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  copula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 27 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  extraocular musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin pterygiophore 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tela chorioidea telencephalic ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  molecular layer valvula cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesencephalic nucleus of trigeminal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  migratory trunk neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cloacal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 23 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glioblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 20 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  transitional stage b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otolithic lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  accessory pretectal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stratified keratinized epithelial stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stratified epithelial stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  integument ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  peripheral nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lg5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nephron progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nephron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  taste bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  zone of polarizing activity pelvic fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pterotic fossa .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fossa .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  head mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal hyoid arch .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preopercle vertical limb - hyomandibula joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyosymplectic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypobranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral root .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  facio - acoustic neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infraorbital lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intermediate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior naris .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  naris .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  isthmic primary nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior segment eye .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tela chorioidea third ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  axial fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central pretectal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vestibulo - spinal tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  palatocerebral artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oocyte stage iii .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  corpus mamillare .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pars superior ear .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  macula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  erector muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tract of the caudal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neurogenic field .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  choroid plexus third ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  replacement tooth 1v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 replacement  tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cobl .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bifurcate interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  abductor hyohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  chemoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oocyte stage iv .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stratum album centrale .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin protractor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ectodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  duct epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  eurydendroid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  efferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  articular fossa of opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cleithrum - vertebral ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  scapulo - vertebral ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral hypothalamic zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  suspensorium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior pancreatic bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve ii .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  aortic arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin lepidotrichium 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  common lymphoid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral occipital foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intercalarium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branchiostegal ray .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesenchyme pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  premigratory cranial neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 16 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  margin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  saccule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  biogenic amine secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bony plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lagena .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  middle lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  prootic - pterosphenoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parachordal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basioccipital - prootic joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral valvula cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sphenoid region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 20 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraorbital lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 23 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral pelvic arrector .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 29 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mandibular lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inter - basipterygium joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal branch nasal ciliary artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  migratory slow muscle precursor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  maxillo - rostroid ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 30 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superficial abductor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  raphe nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric duct opening .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mediodorsal tooth row .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  coronomeckelian .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preural 1 vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal octavolateralis nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forebrain neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mdg1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fin fold pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic nerve head .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vascular endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  simple squamous epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin lepidotrichium 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinal accessory motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypobranchial 1 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  predentine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  odontoid tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  absorptive cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primary motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 20 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oocyte stage i .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 19 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate spinal cord region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  internal levator .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  scapulocoracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intermandibularis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interopercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inferior hyohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  granular layer corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin ventral procurrent ray .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  magnocellular octaval nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  internal gill bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  macula communis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spermatogonium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral protoglomerulus 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral protoglomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nasal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  exoccipital .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  coronary vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  choroid plexus telencephalic ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuron neural crest derived .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infraorbital sensory canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature hair cell posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  diencephalic efferent neurons to the lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  exocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal lamina propria mucosa .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cerebral spinal fluid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  scale primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blastodisc .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cyanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventroposterior zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  exoccipital posteroventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraorbital bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otolith organ .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal intercalated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  macula utricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epihyal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intersegmental vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  extrascapula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preoptic area .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth 5v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  choroid plexus epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ependymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tegmental nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal entopeduncular nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mature gamma - delta t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  deep lateral dorsal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive segmental plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  reticular formation .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tri - tipped trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  synovial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gag secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  periventricular nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  odontoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal division of the internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  climbing fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  subtemporal fossa .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral pars anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  scale radius .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  uroneural .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mental barbel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin pterygiophore 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 17 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epithalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 22 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior swim bladder bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intercalar .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  membrane bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic ductal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  utricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  simple cuboidal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal mucosal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsoventral diencephalic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  right intestinal lymphatics .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 23 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 6  -  vertebra 7 joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preural centrum 1 +  ural centrum 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  totipotent stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  molecular layer corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inter - ventral hypohyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ural centrum 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  visceromotor column .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  diffuse nucleus inferior lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  iris .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blood sinus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  abducens motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 18 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  torus semicircularis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fin lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hematopoietic system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  noninvoluting endocytic marginal cell cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior naris .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rom3m .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraintestinal lymphatic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cerebellovestibular tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cerebellar white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral forebrain bundle diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraneural 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 26 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 3 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  monocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  professional antigen presenting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral caudal adductor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  connective tissue cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  coronary capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cerebellar crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 27 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basal lamina .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oral cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trigeminal neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primary posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epiphyseal stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  seminiferous tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basal communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventriculo bulbo valve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 21 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic radial 3 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral basicapsular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymphatic branchial arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parallel fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dentine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  choroid plexus vascular circuit .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  proepicardial cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preopercle horizontal limb - symplectic joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  macula lagena .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fertilized egg .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin distal radial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  quadrate ventral process .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin retractor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  afferent branchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  common bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral oblique branchial muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin field .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vmg2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branchiostegal membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic radial 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cardiac mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  visual system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin distal radial 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuroglioform cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stellate interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin plate fat .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  subcutaneous fat .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  collagen secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  common myeloid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  organizer inducing center .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 22 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anguloarticular - retroarticular joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 26 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  terminal schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  collecting duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stratum marginale .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  heart rudiment .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cardiovascular system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pericardial region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cardiac jelly .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superior raphe nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  entopterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory field .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal mesentery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gill opening .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  weberian ossicle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dlg5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  suprachiasmatic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parietal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mature natural killer cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pterotic .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  constrictor dorsalis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  promonocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mononuclear odontoclast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  replacement tooth 2v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior lateral process of autopalatine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  descending trigeminal root .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior mesenteric artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  granulocyte monocyte progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  insulating cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myelin accumulating cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 28 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 4 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral fontanel of frontal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fontanel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  second tier layer of breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 21 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tectal neuropile .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adductor operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dentary foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior dorsomedial process of autopalatine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuromast support cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pigment erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic vesicle anterior protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 30 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  continuous blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyaloid vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ural vertebra 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  external cellular layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dental papilla .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  peritoneal macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic recess .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  external granular layer of the cerebellar plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dlg3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  metapterygoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  external pharyngoclavicularis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral preglomerular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  granular layer valvula cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  circulus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  xanthoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cementocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  monoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  prootic bulla .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  perichordal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inferior lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rib of vertebra 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central zone protoglomerulus 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spermatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  brachet's cleft .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinal cord neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 28 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rom1r .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric capsular space .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pars intermedia .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  shield .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  aortic arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive atrium primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  protoneuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 25 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  megakaryocyte erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  visceral peritoneum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial octavolateralis nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  multipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymphatic branchial arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  efferent lamellar arteriole .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 3 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primitive internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral floor plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  taenia marginalis anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 22 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  proctodeum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  orbit .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  precursor b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sacculoagenar foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  t interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  yolk larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  specialized hemal arch and spine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mir1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sinoatrial ring .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 17 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  motor nucleus of vagal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  periarticular chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 28 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rod bipolar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  on - bipolar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  proneural cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trans - choroid plexus branch .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epipleural .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intermuscular bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal hypothalamic zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pericardial muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypural .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  granulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myeloid leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  head sensory canal system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth pulp .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  occipital region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic acinar gland .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ciliated olfactory receptor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  distal bulb of the maxillary blood sinus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsolateral field .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  crypt neuron olfactory support cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory support cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesenchyme derived from head neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  facial lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  periventricular grey zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fasciculus retroflexus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epural .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  premaxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 17 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  claustrum cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  atrioventricular node .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  os suspensorium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bulbo - spinal tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  communicating vessel palatocerebral artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trabecular layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epihyal - branchiostegal ray joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posteromedial glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombencephalic efferent neurons to the lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 27 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  grey matter .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratohyal - dorsal hypohyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral octaval nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypobranchial 4 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal root of abducens nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral spinal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial 1 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypobranchial 2 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 24 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  columnar chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral column .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  enterocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyohyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral cerebellar tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lg1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin distal radial 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 24 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic centroacinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cns short range interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  urothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuroectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  griseum centrale .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interray vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal pelvic arrector .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior mesencephalic central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  corpuscles of stannius .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forebrain neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  granulosa cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral habenular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  evl .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neutrophilic metamyelocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trunk ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 4 - vertebra 5 joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inter - premaxillary joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  replacement tooth 4v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preural 2 vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 28 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forebrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal opening .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ball .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal hypohyal - ventral hypohyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  migratory cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 29 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior chamber eye .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thyroid stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic d cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  left intestinal lymphatics .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  premaxilla ascending process .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinotectal tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic adductor profundus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior catecholaminergic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  acinar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  internal carotid artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 27 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basidorsal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  odontoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  notochordal ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  distal epidermal cap .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  secondary gustatory nucleus trigeminal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraintestinal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle satellite cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gut absorptive cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  testosterone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epiblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral motor nucleus trigeminal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kidney blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic radial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin pterygiophore 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epiphyseal bar .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral rectus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tecto - bulbar tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal periventricular hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus of the tract of the anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal parvocellular preoptic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parvocellular preoptic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rib of vertebra 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 17 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve vii .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basipterygium cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  crypt olfactory receptor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 21 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive preglomerular region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cartilage tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  jugular lymphatic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dlg1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kinethmoid bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  periorbital fat .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin pterygiophore 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pars anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal oblique extraocular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cerebellar plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral line scale .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  autopalatine - maxillary joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  visceral fat .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  osteoprogenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  single fate stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  simple columnar epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  granular eminence .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somite 26 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myeloid cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth 2d .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  premaxillary - maxillary ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preopercle vertical limb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth row .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  internal cellular layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  perichondrium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cajal - retzius cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  s - shaped body .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  perilymphatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin pterygiophore .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  utriculosaccular foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  polymodal neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  peptidergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lens placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior sclerotic bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myotome somite 23 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vitreous .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branchial adductor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle precursor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cia .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  polster .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral branch nasal ciliary artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  synostosis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  opercular lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  choroid plexus tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral lemniscus nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endothelial tip cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  median fin cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  corneal endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lamina rara externa .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infraorbital 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreas primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  internal yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  enteric longitudinal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  carotid artery canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interhyal - epihyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal axial hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oocyte stage v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  leptomeningeal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  atrium of sinus impar .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forebrain midbrain boundary neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral ethmoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymphatic system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 23 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  auditory epithelial support cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epiotic - posttemporal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hepatopancreatic ampulla .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sinoatrial region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epineural .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  postcleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pterygoid process .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal erector .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal tegmental nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  commissure of the secondary gustatory nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial 4 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial 3 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  opercular artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  amelocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior axial hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primitive meninx .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 21 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mid3cm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intervening zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal zone of dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neurocranial trabecula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dental papilla cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural prezygapophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus synencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somatomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parvocellular superficial pretectal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngobranchial bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior chamber swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  choroidal fissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  external lateral ventral muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nasal ciliary artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endo - epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  filamental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  green sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 16 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  iris stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  prootic .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 18 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal protractor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal principal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  respiratory system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pretectum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth 2md .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus of the lateral recess .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial motor nucleus of vagal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal anterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal glomerular capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glossopharyngeal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glossopharyngeal foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal sensory zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parhypural .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infraorbital lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  autopalatine - preethmoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  premaxillo - rostroid ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypertrophic chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branched anal fin ray .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epithelial cell of esophagus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epidermal intermediate stratum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal pretectal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial zone of dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve viii .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  paracommissural nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic girdle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  orbitosphenoid - lateral ethmoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive midbrain hindbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gill raker .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  atrial epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glucagon secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dlg4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventroanterior zone of olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyomandibula - opercle joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymphatic branchial arch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate telencephalic region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  serotonergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superficial blastomere .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 30 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neutrophilic myeloblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  prevomer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 22 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 18 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  band form neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sympathetic nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  erythrophore .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  post - otic sensory canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymphangiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ansulate commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spleen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ectomesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraoccipital .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  middle lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal root .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal thalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  opercular cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gill filament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic intralobular duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inner limiting membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesencephalic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 25 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge pelvic fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interrenal  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  aortic arch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve iii .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  taenia marginalis posterior .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal mucosa .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin pterygiophore 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  perichordal connective tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  del .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supportive cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial 2 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  habenula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lg2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive intervening zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ncc ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuraxis flexure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ultimobranchial body .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  urogenital papilla .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall diencephalic region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate rhombomere 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  myelinating schwann cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  autopalatine - vomer joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mim1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  upper right intestinal lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  subopercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sensory canal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  phagocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  miv1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epiotic .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  flexural organ .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral forebrain bundle telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cone retinal bipolar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intercalarium ascending process .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotic cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic vesicle ventral protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal levator .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior ventromedial process of autopalatine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endolymph .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intertectal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesenchyme pelvic fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cloaca .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interneuromast cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypobranchial 3 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lapillus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vascular smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  structural cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mdg3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic sensory canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thromboblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 28 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 21 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pseudobranchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraneural 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interopercular - mandibular ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal bulb primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forebrain midbrain boundary neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic fiber layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stratum fibrosum et griseum superficiale .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ghrelin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuromast mantle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sensory canal tubular ossicle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus isthmi .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratohyal - branchiostegal ray joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxialis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  barrier epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  golgi cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsolateral zone olfactory bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  copula 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cupula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sphenotic - prootic fossa .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypobranchial 3 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  occipital arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hindbrain neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hindbrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior intestine epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sulcus ypsiloniformis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dendritic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mossy fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  iris melanophore layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus taeniae .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural crest midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 30 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epiphyseal cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  facial lymphatic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 16 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  upper lip .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midline column .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mdg2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  urostyle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thalamic eminence .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial longitudinal catecholaminergic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pillar of the posterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  operculohyoid ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  alkali secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cementoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iii .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sympathetic chain ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 18 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral crista primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pneumatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombic lip .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sensory root of facial nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypural 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rom1c .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gamete .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  immature thymic epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mid2i .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rib of vertebra 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rol1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cholinergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central zone of dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  apical epidermal cap .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parasphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mandibular sensory canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial protoglomerulus 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial 1 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral olfactory tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pretectal periventricular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  atypical epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supracleithrum - vertebral ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lgx .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  replacement  tooth 3v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  prootic - exoccipital joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superficial pelvic abductor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin abductor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vestibulospinal neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vascular associated smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 26 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus inner layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal arrector .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  commissura rostral ,  pars dorsalis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypurapophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  corneal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adenohypophyseal placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratohyal - interhyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superior caudal ventral flexor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 4 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural complex .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyomandibula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral zone of dorsal telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adductor mandibulae .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  afferent glomerular arteriole .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  outer limiting membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rib of vertebra 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lower oral valve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rol2c .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngobranchial 2 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cleithrum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  skin flap .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic abductor profundus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  veld .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal actinotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  levator arcus palatini .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve iv .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 29 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thoracic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  axial lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basal plate midbrain region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  regeneration fibroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  scapular foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 23 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  secondary gustatory tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hepatic portal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral preglomerular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mdg4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral sulcus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior sclerotic bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior mesencephalic central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mid3cl .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal placode 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epithelial cell of pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forebrain midbrain boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vap motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tangential nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus ruber .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive atrium heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  jaw flap .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyomandibular - otic region joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hindbrain neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oviduct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  swim bladder bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth 1v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mature b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate midbrain region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  melanoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primary neuron hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blood plasma .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 29 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  periventricular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal proneural cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral tuberal nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth 1d .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesenchyme condensation cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pyramidal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  corneal endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gabaergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  protractor hyoidei .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  extrapancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hemal postzygapophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inter - hypobranchial 3 joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 25 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraneural 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 16 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  torus lateralis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  esophageal sphincter .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blastemal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thyroid hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior basicapsular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 27 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral entopeduncular nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial protoglomerulus 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hemal prezygapophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  macula saccule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supradorsal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 24 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forebrain neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mir2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lepidotrichium segment .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neurosecretory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial forebrain bundle telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic squamous epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interossicular ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin distal radial 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sinusoidal blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fenestrated blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rudimentary neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  upper oral valve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  corneo - scleral junction .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preopercle horizontal limb .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hemal spine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic vesicle posterior protrusion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  autonomic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  enteric nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rop motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngobranchial 3 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dola .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cerebrospinal fluid secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central zone protoglomerulus 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  naive b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 26 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  circulating cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  annular ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic lobule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  choroidal cell of the eye .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intervessel commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve ix .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capsule epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rom2m .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal inclinator .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intermediate reticular formation .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 22 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adductor hyohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 17 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  coracoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superficial pelvic adductor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parapineal organ .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyomandibular foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural plate border .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate midbrain region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  multilaminar epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraoptic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lamina densa .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rom3l .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pioneer neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kappe olfactory receptor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorso - rostral cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basibranchial 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectinate muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parapophysis 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dg1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sensory epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superficial layer of breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ray vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  barbel primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal placode 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  longitudinal hypochordal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central caudal thalamic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  reissner's fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural arch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  purkinje cell layer valvula cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ciliary zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 21 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sustentacular cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cystic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  upper left intestinal lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal spinal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive enteric nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypural muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  maxillary barbel proximal plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  maxillary barbel vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mandibular symphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epidermal superficial stratum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basibranchial 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive ventral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 28 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus subglomerulosis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive ventral entopeduncular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory nerve foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  forebrain ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pericyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retroarticular .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  osteocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  merkel cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nasal capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  seminiferous epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cyanophore .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyaloid capillaries .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinal cord neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  copula 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraethmoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 24 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory epithelial support cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vestibulolateralis lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  iris blood vessels .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parapophysis / rib .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blastoderm cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oral epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stratum opticum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypophyseal capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 18 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posttemporal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 30 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypural 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pseudounipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuroplacodal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural crest hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral protractor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  chordo neural hinge .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  aponeurosis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  prosencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  notochord inner cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus middle layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  purkinje cell layer corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vmgy .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymphatic capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 24 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth 4md .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypobranchial 4 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypobranchial 2 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mcod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central ray artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  auditory receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  smooth muscle myoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral protoglomerulus 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 23 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  micropylar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  orbitosphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth 3v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  axial chorda mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  afferent lamellar arteriole .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin fat .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  maxilla .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pressoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stretch receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal motor root of v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mem1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth cusp .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal inclinator .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraorbital lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cardiac neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 22 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  premigratory cranial neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin distal radial 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral thalamic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  reticulocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  extraembryonic structure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic epsilon cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ciliated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  memory b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral parvocellular preoptic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  orbitosphenoid - prootic joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parasympathetic nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  levator operculi .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  auditory foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  maxillary barbel blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cholangiocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  macula neglecta .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central chamber of the maxillary blood sinus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  middle lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 25 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intersegmental artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cob .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  purkinje cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mandibular neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  visual pigment cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  calcitonin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin proximal radial 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraneural 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sertoli cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ectopterygoid - quadrate joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  memory t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intermediate thalamic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vmg1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  off - bipolar cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 21 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesethmoid - lateral ethmoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 27 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal depressor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall midbrain region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  simple organ .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roofing cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primordial midbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 20 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  accessory chamber of the maxillary blood sinus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cleft cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tether cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hair cell posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 24 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior communicating artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  insulin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primitive prosencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interhyoideus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial uncinate process .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thyroid follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  prolactin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  paracrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lg6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tunica albuginea testis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 19 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  keratin accumulating cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  entopterygoid - metapterygoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vmg4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intercalarium articulating process .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sperm duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagus foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior myodome .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  venule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lg4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pterosphenoid - orbitosphenoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate rhombomere 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  unipolar neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  quadrate - hyomandibula joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nevus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basibranchial 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primitive mesencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inter - coracoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 17 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural keel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth placode .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial field .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primary dental epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rhombencephalic octavolateral efferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  quadrate - anguloarticular joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basal layer breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basioccipital posterodorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 25 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intermediate nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal interfilamental caudal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin lepidotrichium 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 30 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 29 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate diencephalic region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal erector .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blood sinus cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  frontal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ovarian lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rib of vertebra 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gigantocellular part of magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interradialis caudalis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral ethmoid - supraethmoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypural 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gill ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 19 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stratified cuboidal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lg3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesonephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  commissura cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roi2r .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal retractor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  opercle - interopercle joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial olfactory tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trunk sensory canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intervillus pockets .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  serotonin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  deep white zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  scaphium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  periventricular nucleus of caudal tuberculum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pigmented epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cephalic flexure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mid intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  palatocerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  prootic depression .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 16 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial protoglomerulus 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  commissure of the tract of the commissure of the caudal tuberculum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infraorbital 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal caudal thalamic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infraorbital 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vpg1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  urine .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superior cervical ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preopticohypophyseal tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 18 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral arrector .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  descemet's membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  paraventricular organ .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  angioblastic mesenchymal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive ventral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  choroid plexus fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 24 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pterosphenoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 22 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  optic furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 20 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dermal deep region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestine lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral interfilamental caudal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hindbrain commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth 1md .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preopticohypothalamic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypophyseal fenestra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall rhombomere 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyaloid vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epinephrin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  external yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  progesterone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tela chorioidea tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 26 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  odontocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraneural 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central zone protoglomerulus 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsolateral septum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glucocorticoid secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pericardial fat .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  corneal primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  jaw row breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypural 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  esophageal striated muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin proximal radial 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypophyseal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rib of vertebra 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  acid secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  reticular cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal portal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vmgx .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endolymphatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nitrergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vent .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal alpha - intercalated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roi2c .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neutrophilic promyelocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin proximal radial 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  chromaffin cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuroendocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral funiculus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymph vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  schlemm's canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lens fiber cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral blood island .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basilar artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  terminal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 29 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  replacement tooth 5v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  prootic foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal bulb epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lepidotrichium joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ampullary nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cns long range interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basihyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 28 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 30 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 17 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal oblique branchial muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mid2cm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 10 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  blue sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lip epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral protoglomerulus 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  esophageal fat .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trabecular layer of the atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive dorsal mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventricular endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  extrahepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory rosette .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin distal radial 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin proximal radial .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  polychromatophilic erythroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vmg7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin proximal radial 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lamina rara interna .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin lower lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inferior caudal ventral flexor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  claustrum bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 26 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vmg3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypocretin - secreting neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural arch 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adductor mandibulae complex .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endolymphatic sac .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epibranchial 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bile .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neurecto - epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 16 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral funiculus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  asteriscus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus of the caudal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central zone protoglomerulus 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal oblique .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin proximal radial 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rol3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal capsular space .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypodermis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  zone of polarizing activity pectoral fin bud .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsolateral motor nucleus of vagal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lens capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tongue .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branched caudal fin ray .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  synovial fluid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth 4v .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventrolateral nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preopercle - retroarticular ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  zonule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesenchyme dorsal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bowman's layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parapophysis 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trigeminal - facial chamber .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lacuna .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lower right intestinal lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tunica externa swim bladder .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypobranchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interrenal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  maxillo - mandibular ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 19 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ito cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin distal radial 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 25 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive cephalic mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  metencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pain receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pelvic fin lepidotrichium 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inferior raphe nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oogonia .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interrenal gland .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central zone protoglomerulus 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inner mental barbel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  peridermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 23 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sympathetic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tertiary gustatory nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 22 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  telencephalon diencephalon boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tooth 3md .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal peduncle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypural 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central cardiac conduction system .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  manubrium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  melr .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraneural 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  otic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 16 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  commissura rostral ,  pars ventralis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supratemporal sensory canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hepatic sinusoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 28 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superficial grey and white zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic fat .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  main intrapancreatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus of the posterior recess .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posttemporal fossa .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  coracoid foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyoideomandibular nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vmg5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 2 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lower rhombic lip .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bile ductule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neuromast foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  maxillary barbel lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vpg2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin proximal radial 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral proneural cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  facial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nasal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  segmental intercostal artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  developing mesonephric distal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 19 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parachordal vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  upper rhombic lip .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  median palatocerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  melanocyte stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  extraembryonic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adductor arcus palatini .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basibranchial 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anal fin lepidotrichium 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral ethmoid - autopalatine ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trabecula communis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hepatic vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primary head sinus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  periocular mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  recurrent branch afferent branchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal root .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 27 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mid3i .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior crista primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  swim bladder artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebral artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endocardial precursor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis anterior .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sinoatrial node .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraorbital sensory canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive pronephric mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  outer dental epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oxygen accumulating cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 16 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hatching gland cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell somite 27 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  transitional epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lacunocanalicular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  perineuronal satellite cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nasal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 25 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  plasma cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraneural 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  esophageal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate neural tube region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  magx .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ligament cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 5 - vertebra 6 joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  taste receptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  estradiol secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal hypohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 16 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive blood .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypophyseal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin proximal radial 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 26 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin sensory nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal thalamic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superior caudal dorsal flexor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngobranchial 4 cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nak ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  coronoid process .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesethmoid - vomer joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ectopterygoid - entopterygoid joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus outer layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mip motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural spine 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  scale focus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trigeminal sensory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  extracellular lipid lamellae .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  miv2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  foramen magnum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basipterygium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thymic epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parasympathetic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 30 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superficial ophthalmic nerve foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal accessory optic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral hypohyal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  aqueous humor .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bergmann glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interhyal - hyosymplectic joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus of the tract of the postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  metapterygoid - symplectic fenestra .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin proximal radial 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesenchymal lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stratified epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branched dorsal fin ray .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cav .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 29 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stratified squamous epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stellate cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mdg5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cerebellar central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cola .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 9 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thecal cell layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  torus longitudinalis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral mesencephalo - cerebellar tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal cavity .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cephalic mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral fin motor nerve 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ductus communicans .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rol2r .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mid2cl .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  muscle pioneer somite 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intercalated duct pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basket cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 12 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus lateralis valvulae .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  developing mesonephric proximal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  enkephalin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  internal pharyngoclavicularis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  secondary islet .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 18 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral hypohyal - urohyal joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sinus impar .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mature neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  enameloid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  jaw flap breeding tubercle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  somatotropin secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  endocardial ring .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesangial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  bony shelf above orbit .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  juxtaglomerular cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vmg6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior mesenteric artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal motor nucleus trigeminal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive shield .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral spinal nerve septal branch .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  gill ray .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mid diencephalic organizer .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 13 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  deep lateral ventral muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 19 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal pouch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral mesentery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral horn spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  digestive enzyme secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intersegmental lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rom2l .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 20 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tract of the postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventro - caudal cluster .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesonephric nephron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parietal peritoneum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mag1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  substance p secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 27 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall rhombomere 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  thermoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inner optic circle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mdg6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hyomandibula - pterotic joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebral body end plate .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  amacrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin lepidotrichium 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sensory processing neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral protoglomerulus 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 18 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial valvula cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal ciliary vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral rhombencephalic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial facial lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infraorbital 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epithelial mesenchymal boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infundibulum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lymph .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin distal radial 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral spinal nerve median branch .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  apical ectodermal ridge median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fast muscle cell somite 8 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  corneal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  seminiferous tubule lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral liver lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  presumptive dorsal fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  aortic arch 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  seminal fluid secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesenchyme median fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventricular epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tripus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  neural crest diencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  common crus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 7 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adrenergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  zona radiata .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mandibular fat .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  copa .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spermatid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dentary - anguloarticular joint .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  silver iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 17 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  alpha - beta t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  orbital foramen .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lower left intestinal lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral wall telencephalic region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hepatic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  griseum tectale .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  external lateral dorsal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  concurrent branch afferent branchial artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intercostal ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 11 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesethmoid bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  floor plate rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  abdominal musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal fin distal radial 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  perilymph .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral ethmoid - ectopterygoid ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin upper lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  efferent glomerular arteriole .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral posterior glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epaxial region somite 19 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  sclerotome somite 15 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ceratobranchial 1 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mid cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  aortic arch 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  extramedullary cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inhibitory interneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  postcommissural nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mem .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  enteric circular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  unfertilized egg .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  preopercular sensory canal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  transverse band .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypaxial region somite 20 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  leydig cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  spinal neuromere .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  hypodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  middle mesencephalic central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  urohyal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rov3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tunica propria of seminiferous tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intestinal interlymphatic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic interlobular duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  renal glomerular capsule epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  corneal stroma .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal mesencephalo - cerebellar tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dlg2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supracommissural nucleus of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  caudal fin principal ray 14 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vertebra 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial funicular nucleus medulla oblongata .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  luteinizing hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supraoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesovarium .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superior reticular formation medial column .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral migration pathway mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal fasciculus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  descending octaval nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral transverse .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parafollicular cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  trochlear motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal funiculus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  olfactory pit .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superior reticular formation tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pars subcommissuralis of ventral telencephalon .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsomedial optic tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  horizontal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interpeduncular nucleus medulla oblongata .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  crossed tecto - bulbar tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral tegmental nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pretecto - mammillary tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral rhombencephalic commissure medulla oblongata .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glossopharyngeal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostral root of abducens nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  os suspensorium medial flange .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal transverse .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  rostrolateral thalamic nucleus of butler & saidel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  central zone of the optic tectum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  longitudinal lateral lymphatic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal ganglion 1 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  branchial mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  parathyroid hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  superficial lateralis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cranial nerve i .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal anterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pectoral lymphatic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal lymphatic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal ganglion 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus medulla oblongata .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  interpeduncular nucleus tegmentum .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  uncrossed tecto - bulbar tract .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  inferior reticular formation .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  dorsal horn spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  secondary gustatory nucleus medulla oblongata .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  stratum griseum centrale .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral anterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  facial lymphatic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  adrenal medulla cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal ganglion 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal ectoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngeal mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  anterior lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  supracarinalis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  mesenchyme derived from head mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kidney interstitial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  coracoradialis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  vagal ganglion 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  lateral mesenchyme derived from mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  viscerosensory commissural nucleus of cajal .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  oculomotor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  kidney medulla cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  decussation of medial funicular nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  habenular commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pharyngohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  posterior lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  celiacomesenteric artery .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  median axial vein .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  medial migration pathway mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  pancreatic a cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  facial nerve motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  roof plate spinal cord region .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  commissure infima of haller .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  glossopharyngeal lobe .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  decussation of the medial octavolateralis nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  intermediate mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  saccus dorsalis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  fenestrated cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  infracarinalis .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  follicle stimulating hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  tendon cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  nucleus edinger - westphal .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pronephric tubule of retinoic acid receptor signaling pathway involved in pronephros anterior / posterior pattern specification .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of regulation of mitochondrial membrane potential .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  peptidyl - cysteine s - nitrosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  pronephric tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  embryonic camera - type eye development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  pronephros development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal area  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pronephric tubule  ( pronephric tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal length  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of apical region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capsule epithelium of apical side .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric tubule of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric tubule of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric tubule of ciliary basal body - plasma membrane docking .
abnormal ( ly )  apical - basal polarity  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capsule epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  diencephalon of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  spinal cord of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lens fiber cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  evl of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  optomotor response .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trunk of ventral region  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trunk of ventral region  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  neural tube of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsoventral diencephalic tract of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  roof plate spinal cord region .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( lateral crista )  .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve of tissue morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  atrioventricular valve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  microglial cell of late endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  late endosome to lysosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  microglial cell  ( microglial cell of late endosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of lymphoid neoplasms .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of b - cell neoplasms .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of t - cell neoplasms .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  liver of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  head kidney of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  infiltrative  ( of )  thymus of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hypotrophic  ( of )  head kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cytosolic large ribosomal subunit .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ependymal cell of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  fourth ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  tectal ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  telencephalic ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of cell  ( intestinal epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  rhombomere 6  ( somite 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  median fin fold of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  chondrocyte of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  melanocyte  ( otic vesicle of posterior - most region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  melanocyte  ( pharyngeal arch of lateral margin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of neuronal action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  swim bladder of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch of endoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  anterior commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  postoptic commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  eye of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  eye of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  optic tectum of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  eye of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  tectal neuropile .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of posterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  blastoderm of cell - cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased viscosity  ( of )  blastoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cloaca of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cloaca of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  diencephalon of postero - ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  diencephalon of anterior - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  anterioralized  ( of )  inner ear of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( posterior macula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( lateral crista )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  sagitta .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( neuromast )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  base conversion or substitution editing .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  forebrain of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epicardium of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone  ( tooth 4v )  .
abnormal ( ly )  angle  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( basihyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  reactive oxygen species biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of myeloid leukaemia .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  otic sensory epithelium of postero - lateral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  otic vesicle of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  otic sensory epithelium of postero - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  brain of infection cushion formation on or near host .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  heart of infection cushion formation on or near host .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  atrioventricular canal  ( endocardium of cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forerunner cell group of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  cloaca of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  floor plate neural tube .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of d - glucosyl - n - acylsphingosine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  brain of d - glucosyl - n - acylsphingosine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sympathetic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  telencephalon of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  telencephalon of inflammatory response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  telencephalon of microglial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuron of double - strand break repair .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuron of chromosome organization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of glutathione .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of glutathione disulfide .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  blood of l - alanine:2 - oxoglutarate aminotransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  fibrotic  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intestine of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intestine of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intestine of epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intestine of epithelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intestinal epithelial structure maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intestine of peristalsis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intestinal motility .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk vasculature of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  trunk vasculature of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  normal rate  ( of )  brain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  dispersed  ( of )  whole organism of carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gut of adenocarcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  oxidative phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cellular respiration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased object quality  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  subintestinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  microglial cell  ( optic tectum of anterior region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intestinal bulb of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mid intestine of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intestinal bulb of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  mid intestine of right side .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  epicardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  lateral crista of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell of stereocilium bundle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk of dorsal surface  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  ventralized  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular adhesivity  ( of )  neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  blastomere of cleavage furrow .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  blastomere of cortical granule .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  early embryonic cell of cortical granule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cortical actin cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cortical actin cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cortical granule exocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased fragility  ( of )  chorion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  blastodisc .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  diencephalon of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  rhombomere 6  ( somite 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  rhombomere 7  ( somite 1 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( ball )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of intracellular .
abnormal ( ly )  cuboid  ( of )  notochord of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  mouth .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  meckel's cartilage - palatoquadrate cartilage joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  meckel's cartilage - palatoquadrate cartilage joint .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  meckel's cartilage - palatoquadrate cartilage joint .
abnormal ( ly )  inflexible  ( of )  opercle .
abnormal ( ly )  inflexible  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage - palatoquadrate cartilage joint .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  post - vent vasculature of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  caudal fin of blood  ( caudal fin )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of blood plasma .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hypothalamus of neurosecretory neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of anatomical region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lateral line of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hair cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  hair cell of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regenerating tissue of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk vasculature of regenerating tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  hindbrain of brain vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  brain of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased duration  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  caudal vertebra  ( caudal vertebra )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  caudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  non - weberian precaudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  increased curvature  ( of )  non - weberian precaudal vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  circadian regulation of translation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  spinal cord of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  spinal cord of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrial cardiac muscle cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ventricular cardiac muscle cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of cardiac muscle cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal of myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  thymus of thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lymphoid lineage cell migration into thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  curved dorsal  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  axis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephros of slit diaphragm .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  pronephric glomerular capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  olfactory placode of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  histone h2a - s139 phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth of tooth mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  rough  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  porous  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone  ( tooth 5v )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone  ( tooth 4v )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone  ( tooth 3v )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage  ( palatoquadrate cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  oblique orientation  ( of )  basihyal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  brain of cellular macromolecule catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  pharyngeal arch 1 of cellular macromolecule catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dental epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  dental mesenchyme .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ameloblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ameloblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  odontoblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic tectum of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  gut of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  lateral crista .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  liver and biliary system of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of glutathione disulfide .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of organosulfur compound .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  hepatocyte of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  hepatocyte of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  hepatocyte of mitochondrial crista .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  otic vesicle of postero - medial region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic vesicle of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  statoacoustic  ( viii )  ganglion of neuroblast .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( posterior crista )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  inner ear  ( anterior crista )  .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  posterior macula  ( anterior macula )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  inner ear morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  normal position  ( of )  lateral crista .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  lateral crista .
abnormal ( ly )  normal position  ( of )  anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  normal position  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  posterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  normal position  ( of )  posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  posterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  normal position  ( of )  anterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  anterior crista .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  liver of anatomical region  ( blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  meckel's cartilage - palatoquadrate cartilage joint of collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  meckel's cartilage - palatoquadrate cartilage joint of collagen trimer .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  response to stress .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  l - alanine:2 - oxoglutarate aminotransferase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  germ line cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  testis  ( germ line cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ependymal cell of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  scale of ventral region  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  scale of ventral region  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  scale of ventral region  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dorsalized  ( of )  scale of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  head of ventral surface  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  trunk of ventral surface  ( iridophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trunk of ventral surface  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trunk of ventral surface  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dorsalized  ( of )  melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  retinal cone cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium bundle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal rod cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  optomotor response .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell of stereocilium bundle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell of stereocilium bundle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of stereocilium maintenance .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal cone cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optomotor response .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  retina of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  symmetry  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  skeletal muscle of myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of sound .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( coelom )  .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cartilage tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  disconnected  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  structurally discontinuous  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  misrouted  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  microglial cell of late endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  late endosome to lysosome transport .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  microglial cell  ( microglial cell of late endosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  presumptive cardiac ventricle primitive heart tube of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pectoral protractor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pectoral protractor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral protractor .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  microglial cell of vacuolar calcium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  microglial cell of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  optic tectum of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum of microglial cell  ( microglial cell of vacuole )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum  ( optic tectum of microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  microglial cell  ( microglial cell of vacuole )  .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  optic tectum of neuron  ( optic tectum of microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  macrophage of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( ceratohyal cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  heart of animal organ regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuron of chromosome organization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neuron of transmission of nerve impulse .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  neuron of chromosome organization .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  histone h3 - k27 methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of developmental growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal funiculus of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventral funiculus of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  dorsal funiculus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  ventral funiculus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of cholesterol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of phospholipid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of triglyceride .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of phospholipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  lipid biosynthetic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pericardium of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  microglial cell of phagocytic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head of 6 - phospho - d - gluconate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  microglial cell of phagocytosis ,  engulfment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  microglial cell of microglial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  muscle of lipid droplet  ( muscle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  muscle of sarcoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trunk of ventral region  ( pigment cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  sympathetic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  central artery of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  skeletal muscle  ( adipose tissue )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neural crest cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  kidney of iron molecular entity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  kidney of heme metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pectoral fin lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endochondral element of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  pectoral fin fold .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  pectoral fin proximal radial  ( pectoral fin proximal radial )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin distal radial .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  pronephros of multi - ciliated epithelial cell  ( multi - ciliated epithelial cell of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distance  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( pharyngeal arch 2 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vein of endothelial cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vein of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of hydrogen peroxide .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of malonaldehyde .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  visceral fat of fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  digestive system of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  digestive system of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  digestive system of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric capsular space of pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  jnk cascade .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myeloid cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lymphoid progenitor cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cloacal chamber of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  posterior intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spleen of lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  lymphocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 11 - oxotestosterone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of blood plasma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hematopoietic stem cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  post - vent vasculature of intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent vasculature of blood plasma .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  sperm of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  epidermal superficial stratum of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  epithelial cell  ( epidermal superficial stratum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of cell motility .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of cell - cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of cell - cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  epidermal superficial stratum of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  epidermal superficial stratum of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  epidermal basal stratum of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  habenula of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  undulate  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  skeletal muscle of myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  integument of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of cell  ( endocardium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  atrioventricular valve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  brain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  brain of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of cell  ( cell of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  atrioventricular valve of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  microglial cell of phagocytosis ,  engulfment .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  trunk of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  trunk of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  trunk of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  microglial cell of phagosome maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal diameter  ( of )  microglial cell of phagocytic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  atrioventricular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood plasma of glucagon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of insulin  ( human )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of glucose - 6 - phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  liver of glucose - 6 - phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of pyruvate kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  liver of pyruvate kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  muscle of pyruvate kinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  glucose - 6 - phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  liver of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  microglial cell of vesicle fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  microglial cell  ( microglial cell of phagocytic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of reactive oxygen species .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased stability  ( of )  skeletal muscle of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral horn spinal cord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuromuscular junction development ,  skeletal muscle fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  split  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  g1 to g0 transition involved in cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  head of microglial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pancreas of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreas of intra - epithelial neoplasia .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreas of infiltrating duct carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spinal cord of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural crest cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  migratory cranial neural crest of establishment of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  cellular motility  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  patchy  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  positional polarity  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  ovate  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised dorsally  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalized adaxially  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuron projection extension .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuron projection extension .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cytosolic ribosome .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  somite .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  eye of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  trunk of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary of neuronal stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 3 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  male organism of midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  male organism of midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  absence due to degeneration  ( of )  ovarian follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  growth .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  trunk of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril  ( myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  forebrain of primary neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  head of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  meckel's cartilage  ( meckel's cartilage )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  migratory neural crest cell of lamellipodium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  migratory neural crest cell of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  migratory neural crest cell of bleb .
abnormal ( ly )  lobed  ( of )  migratory neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  male organism of swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial nerve ix of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  motor nucleus of vagal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere of compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell layer of neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  latency  ( of )  sleep .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  basibranchial .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  esophagus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  esophagus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  inner ear .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  mesethmoid bone .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  dorsolateral septum .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  thymus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural tube of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of developmental process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neural tube of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lens development in camera - type eye .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retina of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral line ganglion of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  anterior lateral line ganglion of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellum of cerebellar white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  response to muscle stretch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  heart primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  skeletal muscle of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  trunk musculature of skeletal muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  functionality  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased spatial extent of a process  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  increased height  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  splayed  ( of )  hair cell anterior macula .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  premigratory neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  migratory neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  radial glial cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  microglial cell of response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  radial glial cell of response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  telencephalon of inflammatory response to wounding .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  microglial cell of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  radial glial cell of glial filament .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  radial glial cell of glial filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  telencephalon of radial glial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  head of mitophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neural tube of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neural tube of dorsal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of tight junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  motor neuron of ensheathing process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  axon ensheathment .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  motor neuron of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neural crest cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  myotome of skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  myotome of neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  myotome of sarcomere organization .
abnormal ( ly )  normal width  ( of )  slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  migratory neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  migratory neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  trunk of neural crest cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  cranial ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ovarian follicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  sperm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  female organism of estradiol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  female organism of 11 - oxotestosterone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ovarian follicle of vitellogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  degenerate  ( of )  ovary .
abnormal ( ly )  absence due to degeneration  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iv .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  seminiferous tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  seminiferous tubule lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  male organism of social behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  male organism of interspecies interaction between organisms .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  intestinal epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of bile alcohol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  posterior intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  forebrain of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  myotome of fast muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( fast muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal length  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  gut of enteric neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cerebellum formation .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of 3 - dehydrosphinganine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  post - vent region of thrombocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  digestion .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  intestinal bulb  ( intestinal villus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  mid intestine  ( intestinal villus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of microvillus .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  digestion .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  mid intestine  ( intestinal villus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  rhombomere of actomyosin structure organization .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  rhombomere of actomyosin .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  rhombomere of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  biological_process .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cellular_component .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  molecular_function .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  caudal vein plexus  ( caudal vein plexus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cell of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  urine of protein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of lymphoid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cap motoneuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of retrograde axonal transport .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  cap motoneuron of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  cap motoneuron of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cap motoneuron of recycling endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of anterograde axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of retrograde axonal transport of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  anterograde axonal transport .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  organelle transport along microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cap motoneuron of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  amplitude  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  cap motoneuron of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cap motoneuron of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cap motoneuron of microtubule polymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  cap motoneuron of neuromuscular junction of skeletal muscle fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  microtubule polymerization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  cap motoneuron of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  undamaged  ( of )  neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  scale .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  chondrocyte of collagen .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  chondrocyte of protein targeting .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse  ( of )  notochord inner cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  notochord inner cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  floor plate of establishment or maintenance of cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  trunk vasculature of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  caudal vein plexus of capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  caudal vein plexus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  renal tubule of animal organ regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  regenerating tissue of kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of kidney .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  regenerating tissue of renal duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of renal duct .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  renal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  renal duct .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  trunk of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  caudal fin of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  ionocyte progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  ionocyte progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  aggregated  ( of )  ionocyte progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  circulatory system development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of l - arginine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of l - methionine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of l - threonine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of l - proline .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver and biliary system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreatic system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pronephric glomerular basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cranial cartilage of poly ( ethylene imine )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  peripheral nervous system of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  peripheral nervous system of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  oligodendrocyte  ( motor neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  oligodendrocyte  ( peripheral nervous system )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  scale of alkaline phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mass density  ( of )  female organism of vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  pectoral fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  weberian apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  curved  ( of )  pelvic fin skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  vertebral column of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  brain of compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  lateral longitudinal fasciculus of axonal fasciculation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of axonal fasciculation .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  white matter .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin fold of integument .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural plate of dorsal convergence .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neural plate of dorsal convergence .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neural keel formation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  nak ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ionocyte progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epidermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nitric oxide .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic  ( of )  snout .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic ,  malignant  ( of )  melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of chondroitin sulfate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric duct of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  regenerating tissue of pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  regenerating tissue of pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epibranchial field .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb of peptide hormone secreting cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  primary islet of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of nephron progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  heart rudiment of peripheral region .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction of epithelial cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction of midbrain - hindbrain boundary morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of pronephric nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hepatocyte of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  endolymphatic sac .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  inferior raphe nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pretectum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  superior raphe nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  medulla oblongata .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  raphe nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of primitive neurectodermal tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  kidney of animal organ regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  kidney of animal organ regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  nephron progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  mesonephric nephron morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mesonephric nephron morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  atrioventricular canal endocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  atrium of cardiac muscle cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  epiphysis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of iron molecular entity .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  forebrain .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of nadph .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( pericardial region )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of nicotinic acid - adenine dinucleotide phosphate .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric duct of cell dedifferentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cell dedifferentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  blastema .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  blood vessel of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  blood vessel of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  atpase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  regulation of mitochondrial membrane permeability involved in apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  atpase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  endoplasmic reticulum calcium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  renal tubule of hydrogen peroxide .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  renal tubule of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  renal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  renal tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  alignment  ( of )  posterior lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell  ( posterior lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil activation involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastema of 5 - methylcytosine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blastema of 5 -  ( hydroxymethyl ) cytosine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating fin of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  liver  ( fat cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  notochord of banded collagen fibril .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  notochord outer sheath cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  epibranchial field .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  tail bud .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction  ( midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased angle to  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction  ( midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  nak ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  whole organism of defecation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  goblet cell of mucin granule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  defense response to bacterium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  reproductive system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  reproductive system .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  sensory perception of chemical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  chemosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  eye of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  inflamed  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  chronic  ( of )  growth of symbiont in host .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic growth  ( of )  growth of symbiont in host .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  proctodeum of iron atom .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  extension of iron atom .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  somite of iron atom .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  opercular flap .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  alkaline phosphatase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  liver of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  liver of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  fatty acid beta - oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  fatty acid beta - oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  oxygen metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  oxygen metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gill of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  protein ubiquitination .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of nuclear heterochromatin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of nuclear heterochromatin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  intermediate cell mass of mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of hemoglobin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of myeloid leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  floor plate of ciliary basal body .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  epithelial cilium movement involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of atp .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased duration  ( of )  retina of cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ciliary marginal zone of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  liver of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  superoxide dismutase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  brain of dopamine .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenanthrene dioxygenase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  locomotory exploration behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased linear velocity  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blastoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  rhombomere of anatomical compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood vasculature  ( nucleate erythrocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  viscosity  ( of )  blood .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ventriculo bulbo valve .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventricular epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  optic cup of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  optic stalk .
abnormal ( ly )  unfused from  ( of )  optic cup  ( optic cup )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  optic vesicle of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior segment eye of proximal side  ( retinal pigmented epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  posterior segment eye of proximal side .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor inner segment .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding into  ( of )  retinal neural layer  ( brain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  histone modification .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  lateral dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  whole organism of hepatic tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  trunk vasculature of sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic / hypoplastic  ( of )  vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  spinal cord of wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  motor neuron of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased efficacy  ( of )  intermediate reticular formation of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  medial longitudinal fasciculus of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel of cell - cell junction organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of cell - cell junction organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  semicircular canal fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  peripheral nervous system .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pillar of the anterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  pillar of the anterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pillar of the posterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  pillar of the posterior semicircular canal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  caudal fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axon arborization .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myoblast fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  oligodendrocyte of glial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  somite of ventral side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  response to gamma radiation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pectoral fin of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  atrioventricular valve of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  atrioventricular valve of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  posterior intestine of goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pancreatic b cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood plasma of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle of protein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  parachordal cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  heart of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  head of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  post - vent region of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( vasculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  snout .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  snout .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  eye  ( otic vesicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  olfactory receptor cell of olfactory bulb axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  mauthner neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  germ ring .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  blastodisc of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  blastodisc of anatomical margin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regeneration epithelium of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  normal rate  ( of )  hepatocyte proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  yolk of catabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rhombomere of anatomical compartment boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  ballooning  ( of )  liver of hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of glycogen .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of glomerular visceral epithelial cell apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  erythroid progenitor cell of mitotic cell cycle .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  ventriculo bulbo valve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  circulatory system development .
abnormal ( ly )  closed  ( of )  endolymphatic sac of apical region .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  endolymphatic sac of basal region  ( endolymphatic sac of cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  endolymphatic sac of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  endolymphatic sac .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  posterior lateral line of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  posterior lateral line of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  liver of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventriculo bulbo valve development .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  endocardium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  whole organism of squamous cell carcinoma .
abnormal ( ly )  oblique orientation  ( of )  compact layer of ventricle of cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct of multi - ciliated epithelial cell  ( multi - ciliated epithelial cell of ciliary basal body )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  pronephric duct of multi - ciliated epithelial cell  ( multi - ciliated epithelial cell of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of multi - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of common myeloid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  common myeloid progenitor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  myeloid cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  common myeloid progenitor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hepatocyte of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  tendon cell of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  tendon cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otolithic lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hindbrain of vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  flow rate  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  retina .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage iv of cellular response to progesterone stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ovulation from ovarian follicle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  brain of microglia differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( microglial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hemal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of nadph .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  cerebellum .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ventricular myocardium of atp - activated inward rectifier potassium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell of atp - activated inward rectifier potassium channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  atrium of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  hemangioblast cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  histone h3 - k27 methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  histone h3 - k27 trimethylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of glycosphingolipid .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  anterior macula of golgi apparatus .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  protein n - linked glycosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  protein o - linked glycosylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of water .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of glucose .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muscle of l - tyrosine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of l - lysine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of protein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hexokinase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  adult feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of fat cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  somite  ( fast muscle cell of nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  myotome  ( fast muscle cell of nucleus )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myoblast fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  centered  ( of )  fast muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  intestinal epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intestinal epithelium  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestinal epithelium of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  head muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  esophageal striated muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  digestive system process .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin adductor of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin abductor of contractile fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pelvic fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pectoral fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  pectoral fin musculature .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  adductor muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  abductor muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin of adductor muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pectoral fin of abductor muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( primitive pectoral fin abductor )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin adductor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin abductor .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  axis specification .
abnormal ( ly )  normal volume  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pericardial fat .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased variability of size  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell action potential involved in contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased functionality  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pectoral fin bud of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005921 .
abnormal ( ly )  clavate  ( of )  pectoral fin .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted  ( of )  cardiac ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  regulation of termination of rna polymerase ii transcription .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neural crest cell migration involved in heart formation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cardiac neural crest .
abnormal ( ly )  decondensed  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  trunk musculature of skeletal muscle myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  trunk musculature of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decondensed  ( of )  trunk musculature of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  larval feeding behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  neuromuscular process .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  epidermal cell of adherens junction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  periderm .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  scale primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  elongated  ( of )  peridermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  chondrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fast muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myosin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fast muscle cell of m band .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  motor neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trigeminal motor nucleus of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  trunk musculature of motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  motor neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  motor neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  oviposition .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  oocyte stage v .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sinoatrial ring .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of endothelial cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  distended  ( of )  male organism of gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  male organism of gonad  ( spermatogenic cyst )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  male organism of gonad  ( ovarian follicle )  .
abnormal ( ly )  color pattern  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ovary  ( ovarian follicle stage iii )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  ovary  ( ovarian follicle stage i )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  ovary  ( anatomical space )  .
abnormal ( ly )  granular  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  granular  ( of )  midbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  normal object quality  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  normal fecundity  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  pronephros of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephros of distal region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of pronephric nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of apical part of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of early distal convoluted tubule development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  notochord of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of establishment of apical / basal cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of cilium assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of kidney epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  peritoneum .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  urine of protein polypeptide chain .
abnormal ( ly )  flattened  ( of )  mesonephric podocyte of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  mesonephric podocyte of fenestrated blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  renal glomerulus of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  urine .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  spinal cord of wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  motor neuron of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process efficacy  ( of )  intermediate reticular formation of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lateral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal early tubule of pronephric nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule of pronephric nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  macrophage of reactive oxygen species .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  posterior pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of centrosome .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of neuron projection  ( rhombomere 4 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  orientation  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of cell body  ( branchiomotor neuron of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of motor neuron migration .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of rhombomere 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron of rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron  ( rhombomere 4 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  myeloid cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  alignment  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell  ( eye photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pathway - restricted smad protein phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ventral fin fold of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pathway - restricted smad protein phosphorylation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  ventral fin fold of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  outer limiting membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephric proximal straight tubule of pronephric nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  pronephric distal late tubule of pronephric nephron tubule epithelial cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  gastrulation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neuromast support cell of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  lens capsule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage activation involved in immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  segmental plate of anterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  segmental plate of anterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  segmental plate of anterior side .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  postcranial axial skeleton of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  keratinocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  extension of nak ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  extension of vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ectoderm of stem cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ball of nak ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ball of vh ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  mip motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  bifurcated  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  trunk neural crest cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vap motor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  trunk of iridophore .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal root ganglion of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  mid3cm .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  brain of central nervous system projection neuron axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  brain of dopaminergic neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  cerebellum development .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  cerebellum  ( purkinje cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of glutamate ( 1 -  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of glycine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of sarcosine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of cystathionine .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of dopamine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of leucine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of proline .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of valine .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of serotonin .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of arginine .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of folates .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  brain of neural precursor cell proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal diameter  ( of )  eye .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of glutamate ( 1 -  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of cystathionine .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of lactate .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of leucine .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of proline .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of valine .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of arginine .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of glycine .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  immature gonad .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  immature gonad  ( ovarian follicle stage i )  .
abnormal ( ly )  non - progressive  ( of )  primary ovarian follicle growth .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  ovarian follicle stage i of ovarian follicle development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  gonad of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  onset quality  ( of )  spermatogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  gonad  ( ovarian follicle stage ii )  .
abnormal ( ly )  progressive  ( of )  spermatogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  fecundity  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  testis  ( spermatid )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  sex determination .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  rohon - beard neuron of innervation .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of growth cone .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  brain of glutamatergic neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  hematopoietic system .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  whole organism of adaxial - abaxial axis .
abnormal ( ly )  amorphous  ( of )  hepatocyte of anatomical boundary .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  intestine of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  circular  ( of )  muscle of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  truncated  ( of )  intestinal villus .
abnormal ( ly )  atrophied  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  crowded  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of common myeloid progenitor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood of erythroid lineage cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  latency  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  brain of gabaergic neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  brain  ( gabaergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal position  ( of )  trigeminal ganglion of branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal position  ( of )  facial ganglion of branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  normal position  ( of )  vagal ganglion of branchiomotor neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vertical myoseptum of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  myotome of cell adhesion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell  ( myotome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  sinuous  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  extends beyond  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell  ( vertical myoseptum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  myotome of connective tissue cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pericardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  multicellular organismal movement .
abnormal ( ly )  inflexible  ( of )  muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vertical myoseptum of banded collagen fibril .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell  ( myotome of basement membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  structurally discontinuous  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  liver of fatty acid beta - oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  muscle of fatty acid beta - oxidation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestinal bulb of enteroendocrine cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  trunk vasculature of vasculature development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  trunk vasculature of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  blastomere  ( yolk )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  primitive heart tube .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood cell  ( trunk vasculature )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  atrium of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  pharyngeal mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  intestine  ( goblet cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  intestine lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  intestine of peristalsis .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  intestine  ( serotonergic neuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  asynchronous  ( of )  pronephros of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  asynchronous  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cilium movement involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  asynchronous  ( of )  spinal cord of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  movement quality  ( of )  spinal cord of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intestinal bulb of intestine smooth muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mucus secretion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  intestinal motility .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  intestine  ( goblet cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  thymus of hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of hematopoietic cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of insulin .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  photoreceptor activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  detection of light stimulus involved in sensory perception .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  kidney interstitial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  obstructed  ( of )  pronephric duct opening .
abnormal ( ly )  cystic  ( of )  pronephric proximal convoluted tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  neural tube of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric duct of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  cloaca of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  whole organism of hepatic tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  endolymphatic sac of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  thickness  ( of )  endolymphatic sac of epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction of basal region .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction of basal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage of canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrioventricular valve of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pharyngeal arch cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  lymphatic system of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  elliptic  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased cellular motility  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  positive regulation of inflammatory response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  positive regulation of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
abnormal ( ly )  damaged  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  fatty  ( of )  blood vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cerebrospinal fluid contacting neuron of cell morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  cerebrospinal fluid contacting neuron of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cerebrospinal fluid contacting neuron of cellular response to mechanical stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of cone telodendria .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of cone telodendria .
abnormal ( ly )  branched  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of cone telodendria .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  uv sensitive photoreceptor cell of cone telodendria .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  heart trabecula morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of h3k4me3 .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  heart of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  histone modification .
abnormal ( ly )  accumulation  ( of )  blood  ( ventral aorta )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  somite of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  thoracic duct of intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  endoderm development .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  muller cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  muller cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  muller cell of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  muller cell of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muller cell of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  inner limiting membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  outer limiting membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  physical object quality  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  muller cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  muller cell of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular thickness  ( of )  outer limiting membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muller cell of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular thickness  ( of )  retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormal ( ly )  overlap with  ( of )  muller cell of glial cell projection  ( muller cell of glial cell projection )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  muller cell of glial limiting end - foot .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal neural layer  ( inner limiting membrane )  .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  muller cell of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  muller cell of glial limiting end - foot .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  muller cell of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  muller cell of glial cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of hydrogen peroxide .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of dermatan sulfate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of hydroxyproline .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  brain of neurotransmitter .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of neurotransmitter .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of proline .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of heparan sulfate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of chondroitin sulfate .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of 8 - hydroxy - 2' - deoxyguanosine .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of coenzyme q10 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of keratan sulfate .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  behavioral defense response .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  telomerase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  catalase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  short - term memory .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  antioxidant activity .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  social behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  exploration behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  creatininase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal inner nuclear layer  ( interneuron )  .
abnormal ( ly )  senescent  ( of )  whole organism .
abnormal ( ly )  increased permeability  ( of )  intestine .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer  ( eye photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pleuroperitoneal region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vertical myoseptum of muscle tendon junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  vertical myoseptum .
abnormal ( ly )  decondensed  ( of )  tendon cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of cellular senescence .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of adipose tissue .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cilium movement involved in extracellular fluid movement .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  forerunner cell group of cell cycle g1 / s phase transition .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  antifungal innate immune response .
abnormal ( ly )  dead  ( of )  neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  head of condensed chromosome  ( head of mitotic spindle microtubule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  head of mitotic spindle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  thymus of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blood of non - lymphoid leukaemias .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  head kidney of non - lymphoid leukaemias .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pro - t cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral wall of dorsal aorta of endothelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  blood vessel of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  blood vessel of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  splanchnocranium of skeletal muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  splanchnocranium of tendon development .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ceratohyal cartilage of tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior of tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  interhyoideus of tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  adductor mandibulae of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal volume  ( of )  myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  centrum of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  rib of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  cranial vault of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  rib of bone morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  normal mass density  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  normal volume  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  dentary .
abnormal ( ly )  normal length  ( of )  male organism .
abnormal ( ly )  normal length  ( of )  female organism .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  skeletal system  ( rib )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal mass density  ( of )  cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  intervertebral ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  rib of vertebra 4 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rib of vertebra 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  rib of vertebra 6 .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  skeletal system  ( rib )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  palatoquadrate cartilage of ligament .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  sternohyoid of tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  mauthner neuron of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  mauthner neuron of growth cone .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of formation of growth cone in injured axon .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon extension involved in regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon extension involved in regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  direction  ( of )  mauthner neuron of axon collateral .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior crista of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  olfactory pit of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuromast of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior crista of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  anterior crista of axoneme .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness  ( of )  retina of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  retina of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardinal system of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal frequency  ( of )  heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  normal diameter  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  normal diameter  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  cardinal system of blood .
abnormal ( ly )  complex  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  metencephalic artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  slow muscle cell of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  slow muscle cell of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  simple  ( of )  dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal aorta of endothelial tube lumen extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein of endothelial tube lumen extension .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  endothelial tube lumen extension .
abnormal ( ly )  attached to  ( of )  dorsal aorta  ( posterior cardinal vein )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  dorsal aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  posterior cardinal vein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  artery of blood vessel endothelium .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epiphysis of cellular response to uv .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epiphysis of cellular response to blue light .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epiphysis of cellular response to red light .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  epiphysis of response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  blastoderm segmentation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased adhesivity  ( of )  blastoderm cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  vascular cord of notch signaling pathway .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm of cell migration involved in vasculogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased adhesivity  ( of )  posterior lateral plate mesoderm of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vascular cord of angiogenic sprout .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  angioblast cell migration from lateral mesoderm to midline .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  blood  ( brain )  .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  anterior cerebral vein .
abnormal ( ly )  hemorrhagic  ( of )  primordial hindbrain channel .
abnormal ( ly )  located in  ( of )  blood  ( cranial blood vessel )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of hepatic tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  calcified  ( of )  centrum of central region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vertebral body end plate of phosphate .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  vertebral body end plate of carbonate .
abnormal ( ly )  crystal configuration  ( of )  vertebral body end plate of apatite .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  vertebral body end plate of collagen network .
abnormal ( ly )  dysplastic  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  fragile  ( of )  rib .
abnormal ( ly )  scarred  ( of )  rib .
abnormal ( ly )  collapsed  ( of )  vertebra .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  lepidotrichium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  lacunocanalicular system .
abnormal ( ly )  hardness  ( of )  vertebral body end plate .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased elasticity  ( of )  vertebral body end plate .
abnormal ( ly )  proportionality to  ( of )  osteocyte  ( bone tissue )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  bone mineralization involved in bone maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly ossified  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  hypertrophic  ( of )  ventricular myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  olfactory pit of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  inner ear of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  neuromast of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  optic tectum of autophagosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trabecular layer of ventricle .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  hypothalamus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  hypothalamus of serotonergic neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hypothalamus of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  lateral mesoderm of determination of heart left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  normal length  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of epithelial cilium movement involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  response to light stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  response to absence of light .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  increased linear velocity  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  increased spatial extent of a process  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  habituation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  prepulse inhibition .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  response to absence of light .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  normal rate  ( of )  habituation .
abnormal ( ly )  magnitude  ( of )  prepulse inhibition .
abnormal ( ly )  normal frequency  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased magnitude  ( of )  startle response .
abnormal ( ly )  increased magnitude  ( of )  prepulse inhibition .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased spatial extent of a process  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  increased rate  ( of )  habituation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased speed  ( of )  regenerating fin of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  tendon of collagen fibril organization .
abnormal ( ly )  composition  ( of )  sternohyoid of tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  fast muscle cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  fast muscle cell of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  fast muscle cell of myotome .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  optic tectum  ( retinal ganglion cell of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of macrophage migration .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of axon extension .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  mid3cl of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mid2cm of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mid3cl of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  mid3cm of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  rol2 of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  hindbrain interneuron of commissural neuron axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior of tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  adductor mandibulae of tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  interhyoideus of tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  ventral intermandibularis posterior of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  interhyoideus of skeletal muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  paralysed  ( of )  ventral mandibular arch .
abnormal ( ly )  drooping  ( of )  meckel's cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  immature  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated  ( of )  meckel's cartilage of chondrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  splanchnocranium of skeletal muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  splanchnocranium of tendon development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  splanchnocranium of mandibular muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  splanchnocranium of tendon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  spermatocyte of meiosis ii .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  myocardium of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myocardium of intercalated disc .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular thickness  ( of )  myocardium of z disc .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  myocardium of desmosome .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac muscle of i band .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  heart of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  vertebra of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  broken  ( of )  notochord inner cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  notochord inner cell of notochord cell vacuolation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  notochord  ( notochord inner cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  notochord inner cell .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  notochord inner cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  notochord inner cell of vesicle fusion with vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  notochord inner cell of vacuole .
abnormal ( ly )  straight  ( of )  notochord .
abnormal ( ly )  straight  ( of )  vertebral column of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  kinked  ( of )  vertebral column of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cardiac chamber development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  notochord of bone mineralization .
abnormal ( ly )  spheroid  ( of )  notochord inner cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially  ( of )  notochord inner cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  normal volume  ( of )  notochord inner cell of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of animal organ regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of animal organ regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  regenerating tissue of ventricular epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of angiogenesis involved in wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  regenerating tissue of angiogenesis involved in wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  regenerating tissue of ventricular epicardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  sprouting angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of phospholipid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of intermediate - density lipoprotein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of low - density lipoprotein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of very - low - density lipoprotein .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  atrium of cardiac conduction system development .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle of macroautophagy .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle of tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  cardiac muscle of tor signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac muscle cell contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased contractility  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of heart contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse  ( of )  heart .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  trabecular layer  ( cardiac muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  trabecular layer of the atrium .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell  ( cardiac muscle cell of autophagosome )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric tubule of apical side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of intermediate - density lipoprotein .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of low - density lipoprotein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of very - low - density lipoprotein .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of omega - 9 fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of methylglyoxal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of omega - 3 fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of saturated fatty acid .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  whole organism of lactoylglutathione lyase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  fatty acid metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  eye of methylglyoxal .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  eye of methylglyoxal .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  glucose metabolic process .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  whole organism of aldo - keto reductase  ( nadp )  activity .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  retina of ocular blood vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  area  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  anterior commissure of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorso - rostral cluster of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  postoptic commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  anterior commissure .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  otolith formation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  retinal rod cell of rod photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( uv sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( blue sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( green sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( red sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor cell outer segment organization .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor disc membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( uv sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal photoreceptor layer  ( blue sensitive photoreceptor cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  sparse  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  retina layer formation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell of cone photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  red sensitive photoreceptor cell of cone photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal rod cell of rod photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  retinal rod cell of rod photoreceptor outer segment .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal outer nuclear layer of eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  trunk of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte progenitor proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  apoptotic  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  behavioral defense response .
abnormal ( ly )  vacuolated  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  glioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neutrophil of voltage - gated ion channel activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neutrophil of reactive oxygen species .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  neutrophil of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  neutrophil of phagocytic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neutrophil of phagocytic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  neutrophil migration .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial distribution of a process  ( of )  neutrophil migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased accumulation  ( of )  caudal fin of regenerating fin  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased accumulation  ( of )  caudal fin of regenerating fin  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial distribution of a process  ( of )  neutrophil chemotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial distribution of a process  ( of )  neutrophil aggregation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cerebellar purkinje cell layer morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  cerebellar purkinje cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  granular layer corpus cerebelli  ( purkinje cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  purkinje cell layer corpus cerebelli  ( purkinje cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  inserted into  ( of )  purkinje cell  ( granular layer corpus cerebelli )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  torus longitudinalis of granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised radially  ( of )  optic tectum of neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  molecular layer corpus cerebelli .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cerebellar crest .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  stratum marginale .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  stratum opticum .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cerebellar granule cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disoriented  ( of )  purkinje cell of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  rhombomere of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  cerebellum  ( eurydendroid cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  granular layer corpus cerebelli  ( eurydendroid cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  purkinje cell layer corpus cerebelli  ( eurydendroid cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  inserted into  ( of )  eurydendroid cell  ( granular layer corpus cerebelli )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  granular layer corpus cerebelli  ( bergmann glial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  inserted into  ( of )  bergmann glial cell  ( granular layer corpus cerebelli )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of erythroid progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  calcium import into the mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  ventral aorta of vascular associated smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  ventral aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral aorta of vascular associated smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  ventral aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pericyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vascular associated smooth muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  regulation of mitochondrial membrane potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  dopaminergic neuron of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pericyte .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  area postrema .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  area postrema of cellular calcium ion homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  neuromast of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  normal rate  ( of )  posterior lateral line primordium of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  blood vessel endothelial cell of cell - cell junction .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  endothelial tip cell  ( blood vessel endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of cell - cell junction organization .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of blood vessel morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  yolk of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  intestine of somatic stem cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  intestinal stem cell homeostasis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  goblet cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of chordoma .
abnormal ( ly )  fibrotic  ( of )  testis .
abnormal ( ly )  atretic  ( of )  oocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  oocyte stage ii .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  intestinal mucosa .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  seminiferous tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  swollen  ( of )  intestine of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated  ( of )  skeletal muscle of mitochondrial outer membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  dense  ( of )  goblet cell of mucin granule .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitotic cell cycle phase transition .
abnormal ( ly )  increased thickness  ( of )  blastoderm cell of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  blastoderm of cell projection .
abnormal ( ly )  osseous  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 tooth of basal surface .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dorsal orientation  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  normal area  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone  ( ceratobranchial 5 tooth )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  scale of bone resorption .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  pigment cell development .
abnormal ( ly )  normal diameter  ( of )  centrum .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( melanocyte )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  integument  ( xanthophore )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone of odontogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  neural arch .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone  ( ceratobranchial 5 tooth )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of synaptic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of neuromuscular junction of skeletal muscle fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  horizontal myoseptum of neuromuscular junction of skeletal muscle fiber .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  myotome of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased linear velocity  ( of )  thigmotaxis .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  sensory neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dermis of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  sensory neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  neuron projection development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of autophagosome membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  autophagosome - lysosome fusion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of endosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  pronephric glomerulus of podocyte foot .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased linear velocity  ( of )  dorsal aorta of blood circulation .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  heart of intercalated disc .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  heart of cardiac myofibril .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  macula utricle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  otic epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle myoblast of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle myoblast of ribosomal rna .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of fibrillar center .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  skeletal muscle cell of nucleolus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle myoblast of rrna processing .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle myoblast of rrna transcription .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  skeletal muscle of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle myoblast of ribosome biogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  skeletal muscle tissue regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin adductor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  otic epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( otic epithelium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  posterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  otic epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005919 .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  anterior lateral line neuromast .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  axis elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal length  ( of )  whole organism of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  male courtship behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  convergent extension involved in neural plate elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  functional  ( of )  atrioventricular valve .
abnormal ( ly )  obtuse  ( of )  axis of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  extension of yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  pronephric mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  ventral mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  axial mesoderm .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  presumptive rhombomere 5 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  notochord posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  midbrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  forebrain neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary neural rod .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neural plate border .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding  ( of )  pharyngeal arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cerebellum of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  peripheral neuron of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  peripheral neuron of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  blood coagulation .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of actin filament organization .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  yolk syncytial layer of filamentous actin .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  actin cytoskeleton organization .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  evl  ( del )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  optic stalk of cell death .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  lens of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lens epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  lens fiber cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cranial vasculature of vascular lymphangioblast .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  thoracic duct  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otolithic lymph vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  otolithic lymph vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  medial facial lymph vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  medial facial lymph vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  otolithic lymph vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  medial facial lymph vessel  ( endothelial cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  dorsal habenular nucleus of neurogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  parapineal organ of specification of animal organ identity .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  parapineal organ of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  parapineal organ of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  parapineal organ of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased branchiness  ( of )  parapineal organ of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  parapineal organ of efferent neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  motor neuron of neuron projection development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  muscle cell of neuromuscular junction .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  lateral facial lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  medial facial lymph vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  optic vesicle of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  branchiness  ( of )  sensory neuron of axon .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution  ( of )  hypochord .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  motor neuron of neuron projection .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric tubule of endocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  neutrophil of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  integument of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  common cardinal vein of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  whole organism of anterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  necrotic  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic  ( of )  whole organism of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  embryo development .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  microglial cell of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  head of hexosaminidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  microglial cell of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  brain of oligosaccharide .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  liver of oligosaccharide .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pancreas of oligosaccharide .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  gonad of oligosaccharide .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  spleen of oligosaccharide .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  intestine of oligosaccharide .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  brain of hexosaminidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  liver of hexosaminidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  pancreas of hexosaminidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  gonad of hexosaminidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  spleen of hexosaminidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  intestine of hexosaminidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  radial glial cell of lysosome .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  caudal hematopoietic tissue  ( neutrophil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  macrophage of phagocytosis .
abnormal ( ly )  retracted  ( of )  pronephric podocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hexosaminidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  parasphenoid of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  splanchnocranium of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 1 of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  branchiostegal ray 2 of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  blood  ( cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distance  ( of )  pupil  ( pupil )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  vertebral column .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly ossified  ( of )  ceratobranchial 5 bone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased pigmentation  ( of )  lateral larval melanophore stripe .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  scale of tissue remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  scale of bone remodeling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  scale of bone development .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  infraorbital of bone development .
abnormal ( ly )  angle  ( of )  neural arch  ( centrum )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  aerobic respiration .
abnormal ( ly )  length  ( of )  mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  cranial vault of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  male organism of cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  width  ( of )  female organism of cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  cranial vault of ventral region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  male organism of cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased width  ( of )  female organism of cranial vault .
abnormal ( ly )  has extra parts of type  ( of )  subintestinal vein  ( vascular sprouts )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  muscle of nerve sheath tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  bone tissue of nerve sheath tumor .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure  ( of )  retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  vagal ganglion .
abnormal ( ly )  organization quality  ( of )  pigment cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  cranial nerve ii of axonal fasciculation .
abnormal ( ly )  fasciculation  ( of )  optic nerve head .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  occipital lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell  ( occipital lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  misaligned with  ( of )  dorsal lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell  ( dorsal lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  posterior lateral line nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  size  ( of )  cranial cartilage .
abnormal ( ly )  condensed  ( of )  spinal cord .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  frontal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular thickness  ( of )  frontal bone .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  opercular flap .
abnormal ( ly )  shape  ( of )  supraoccipital .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  supraoccipital .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass density  ( of )  cranium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased angle to  ( of )  weberian vertebra  ( non - weberian precaudal vertebra )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally  ( of )  supraneural 2 .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  vertebra of ossification .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume  ( of )  neurohypophysis of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  neurohypophysis of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  neurohypophysis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  neurohypophysis of synapse .
abnormal ( ly )  increased stability  ( of )  neurohypophysis of actin filament .
abnormal ( ly )  normal diameter  ( of )  hypophyseal capillary of pore complex .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  hypophyseal capillary of pore complex assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hypophyseal capillary of pore complex assembly .
abnormal ( ly )  normal diameter  ( of )  hypophyseal capillary of caveola neck .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hypophyseal capillary of regulation of vascular permeability .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  hypophyseal capillary .
abnormal ( ly )  frequency  ( of )  cap motoneuron of calcium - mediated signaling .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  cap motoneuron .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  neuromast  ( neuromast hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  myotome of muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  cerebellar central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter  ( of )  cerebellar central artery .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  cap motoneuron of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  cap motoneuron of growth cone filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  bilateral symmetry  ( of )  head .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  optic vesicle of apical surface .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  optic vesicle of basal surface .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  epithelium of adherens junction organization .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  optic vesicle of establishment of apical / basal cell polarity .
abnormal ( ly )  displaced to  ( of )  optic vesicle of neuroepithelial cell  ( posterior segment eye of anatomical space )  .
abnormal ( ly )  malformed  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  optic vesicle elongation .
abnormal ( ly )  asymmetrical  ( of )  optic vesicle .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  head of developmental process .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  optic cup .
abnormal ( ly )  detached from  ( of )  retina of cell  ( retina )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized  ( of )  optic cup of cell .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  secondary motor neuron of cell body .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pectoral fin of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  pectoral fin of joint .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  quadrate - anguloarticular joint .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  whole organism of neoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  islet of leukocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  islet of macrophage migration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  islet of macrophage .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  cellular response to glucose stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  central nervous system of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  optic cup of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  hepatocyte of phagocytosis ,  engulfment .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  fourth ventricle of apical side  ( fourth ventricle of cilium )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventricular system of apical side .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventricular system of apical side  ( ventricular system of gamma - tubulin complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventricular system of apical side  ( ventricular system of microtubule organizing center )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  ventricular system of apical side  ( ventricular system of microtubule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  ventricular system of gamma - tubulin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  fourth ventricle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  fourth ventricle of cilium .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  fourth ventricle of epithelial tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  tectal ventricle of epithelial tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric duct of nephric duct formation .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gut of apical side .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  gut of apical side  ( gut of gamma - tubulin complex )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gut of gamma - tubulin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  gut of apical side  ( gut of microtubule )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pancreatic duct of epithelial tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  gut of epithelial tube formation .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  gut .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  exocrine pancreas .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  brain of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  fin of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  integument of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  muscle of dna methylation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of igd immunoglobulin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of igm immunoglobulin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of igz immunoglobulin complex .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of filopodium .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  pronephric podocyte of slit diaphragm .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventriculo bulbo valve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  ventriculo bulbo valve morphogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  ventriculo bulbo valve .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  brain of succinate dehydrogenase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  eye of succinate dehydrogenase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior macula of succinate dehydrogenase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle of succinate dehydrogenase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  brain of cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  eye of cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  posterior macula of cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  normal occurrence  ( of )  skeletal muscle of cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  behavioral quality of a process  ( of )  swimming .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  posterior macula  ( hair cell posterior macula of mitochondrion )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  anterior lateral line neuromast of neuromast hair cell .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  aerobic respiration .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  mitochondrial trna thio - modification .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  trna - specific 2 - thiouridylase activity .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  macula lagena  ( hair cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  fourth ventricle of cerebral spinal fluid .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  ventricular system of cerebral spinal fluid .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  dorsal spinal nerve of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  ventral spinal nerve of myelination .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium of extracellular region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  physical quality  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  inflexible  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium of basement membrane .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  basal regeneration epithelium of intracellular .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  dorsal spinal nerve .
abnormal ( ly )  distributed  ( of )  primary islet of pancreatic b cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  nak ionocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventral aorta .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  whole organism of migrasome .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern  ( of )  forerunner cell group .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  shield of migrasome .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks all parts of type  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus  ( ventriculo bulbo valve )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of smooth muscle tissue development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of vascular smooth muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  ventriculo bulbo valve of notch signaling involved in heart development .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ventriculo bulbo valve of posterior region .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  intersegmental vessel of angiogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  liver of cellular response to dna damage stimulus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  hepatocyte of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  pronephric tubule of determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  pronephric tubule .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  brain of cell communication by electrical coupling .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of endocardial cushion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of nucleus .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  pronephric duct of cytoplasm .
abnormal ( ly )  increased frequency  ( of )  caudal fin of striated muscle contraction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  veld of action potential .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased area  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  hepatocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area  ( of )  liver .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  yolk of lipid .
abnormal ( ly )  occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  melanocyte of regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  dorsal larval melanophore stripe of melanocyte .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of tyrosine .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  whole organism of phenylalanine .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of axon  ( spinal cord of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  spinal cord of central nervous system myelin formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  surrounding  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath  ( spinal cord of neuronal cell body )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal thickness  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord of oligodendrocyte  ( oligodendrocyte of myelin sheath )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  spinal cord  ( spinal cord of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  surrounding  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath  ( spinal cord of axon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased rate  ( of )  spinal cord of central nervous system myelin formation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  ovary of 17beta - estradiol .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  testis of 17beta - estradiol .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  oocyte stage iii of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  oocyte stage iv of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  granulosa cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  increased occurrence  ( of )  theca cell of apoptotic process .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005926 .
abnormal ( ly )  normal length  ( of )  spinal cord of myelin sheath .
abnormal ( ly )  amount  ( of )  whole organism of phenylalanine .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  muscle .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  regenerating tissue of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  embryonic liver development .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005923 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005924 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005925 .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005921 of cell migration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005923 .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005924 .
abnormal ( ly )  fused with  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005924  ( http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005925 )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005924 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased distribution  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005925 .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin abductor .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased size  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005926 .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005922 .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  head of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased amount  ( of )  caudal fin of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  normal pigmentation  ( of )  caudal fin of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  discolored  ( of )  trunk of xanthophore .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin adductor .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin abductor .
abnormal ( ly )  present  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005926 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite 1 of ventral - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite of ventral - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite 2 of ventral - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  somite 3 of ventral - most region .
abnormal ( ly )  disrupted  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005921 of cell fate commitment .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primary posterior lateral line primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005923 .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005925 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin adductor .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  primitive pectoral fin abductor .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( primitive pectoral fin adductor )  .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005923 .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005926 .
abnormal ( ly )  lacks parts or has fewer parts of type  ( of )  whole organism  ( http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005926 of muscle cell )  .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  sternohyoid .
abnormal ( ly )  hypoplastic  ( of )  http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / zfa_0005924 .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mobility  ( of )  retinal ganglion cell of mitochondrion .
abnormal ( ly )  rate  ( of )  whole organism of axonogenesis .
abnormal ( ly )  morphology  ( of )  whole organism of axonal growth cone .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount  ( of )  immature neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased speed  ( of )  trunk of neutrophil .
abnormal ( ly )  normal amount  ( of )  whole organism of calcium ( 2 +  )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased size  ( of )  slow muscle cell of sarcomere .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  somite of slow muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  palatoquadrate arch .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  retinal cone cell of chemical synaptic transmission .
abnormal ( ly )  separated from  ( of )  eye photoreceptor cell of synaptic ribbon  ( eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor ribbon synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has normal numbers of parts of type  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer  ( eye photoreceptor cell of photoreceptor ribbon synapse )  .
abnormal ( ly )  has fewer parts of type  ( of )  retinal outer plexiform layer  ( eye photoreceptor cell of synaptic ribbon )  .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  amacrine cell differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  normal process quality  ( of )  retinal bipolar neuron differentiation .
abnormal ( ly )  increased process quality  ( of )  eye of cell population proliferation .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  floor plate of neurectodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  floor plate of neurectodermal cell .
abnormal ( ly )  position  ( of )  floor plate of microtubule .
abnormal ( ly )  deformed  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  irregularly shaped  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  structurally discontinuous  ( of )  pronephric duct .
abnormal ( ly )  structure  ( of )  pronephric duct opening .
abnormal ( ly )  rhythm quality  ( of )  locomotion involved in locomotory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased efficacy  ( of )  reproduction .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased process quality  ( of )  oocyte maturation .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased frequency  ( of )  oviposition .
abnormal ( ly )  normal size  ( of )  yolk .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened  ( of )  hindbrain .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  cardiac ventricle of lymph vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  bulbus arteriosus of lymph vasculature .
abnormal ( ly )  arrested  ( of )  heart of animal organ regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  process quality  ( of )  heart of animal organ regeneration .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased occurrence  ( of )  clearance of damaged tissue involved in inflammatory response wound healing .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  hyperplastic  ( of )  myocardium .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  increased width  ( of )  cardiac muscle cell .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  liver primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  intestinal bulb primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  intestinal bulb primordium .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  gall bladder of duct .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intrahepatic bile duct of intestine lumen .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised  ( of )  intestine of left side .
abnormal ( ly )  spatial pattern  ( of )  intestinal bulb .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  hepatic duct .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  cerebrospinal fluid contacting neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ventral cerebrospinal fluid contacting neuron .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  keratinocyte progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  ionocyte progenitor cell .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  epidermal stem cell .
x ventral_to y iff x is further along the dorso - ventral axis than y ,  towards the front .
obsolete .any process in which an organism has a behavioral effect on another organism of the same or different species .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  intersegmental vessel .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  lateral line .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  mechanosensory behavior .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  neuromuscular junction development .
abnormal ( ly )  abnormal  ( of )  pronephros of epithelial cell .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  epidermis of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0008003 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  neuromast hair cell of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0031513 .
abnormal ( ly )  absent  ( of )  notochord of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0005605 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  kupffer's vesicle of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0031512 .
abnormal ( ly )  increased length  ( of )  somite of http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / go_0072372 .
abnormal ( ly )  quality  ( of )  midbrain hindbrain boundary constriction .
