an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
lower ,  narrow portion of the uterus where it joins with the top end of the vagina .
orifice of the olfactory system .
the olfactory organ of vertebrates ,  consisting of nares ,  olfactory epithelia and the structures and skeletal framework of the nasal cavity .
the clusters of hormone - producing cells that are scattered throughout the pancreas
the pituitary gland is an endocrine gland that secretes hormones that regulate many other glands  [ go ]  .
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that lines organs and supports the mucosa ,  as well as joins the mucosa to the bulk of underlying smooth muscle .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
the parasympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system .
part of peripheral nervous system that includes the somatic parts of the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors .
the sympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system  ( the other being the parasympathetic nervous system )  .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the endocrine system and is made up of islet cells ,  which produce insulin ,  glucagon and somatostatin .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the exocrine system and which produces and store zymogens of digestive enzymes ,  such as chymotrypsinogen and trypsinogen in the acinar cells  [ go ]  .
a light sensing organ composed of ommatidia
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
anatomical projection that protrudes from the skin .
one of the epidermal growths that form the distinctive outer covering ,  or plumage ,  on birds .
appendage that is shaped in order to produce lift for flight through the air .
forelimb that is used to produce lift for flight through the air .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
major subdivision of an organism that protrudes from the body [ dos ,  caro ]  .
any of the rounded masses of lymphoid tissue that are surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue ,  are distributed along the lymphatic vessels ,  and contain numerous lymphocytes which filter the flow of lymph .
a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa [ wp ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory airway .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
an ovarian follicle that has one layer of granulosa cells .
a maturing ovarian follicle that has two more more layers of granulosa cells ,  up to the onset of antrum formation .
a follicle that has reached the most mature stage of folliculogenesis ,  characterized by the presence of the antrum
the fluid surrounding the ovum and granulosa cells in the ovarian follicle .
region of ovarian follicle filled with follicular fluid .
a hemopoietic organ found in elasmobranchs .
multi - tissue structure composed of enameloid ,  dentine surrounding a pulp cavity ,  and bone of attachment anchoring the element into the dermis [ vsao ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer  ( mesothelium )  and a connective tissue layer .
dense regular connective tissue that connects muscle to bone [ vsao ]  .
sensory ganglia located on the dorsal spinal roots within the vertebral column .
a biological tissue mass ,  most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies .
eye - spots which may be set into a pit to reduce the angles of light that enters and affects the eyespot ,  to allow the organism to deduce the angle of incoming light
an eye with one concave chamber .
simple eye that has a small aperture  ( which may be adjustable )  and deep pit .
simple eye that consists of a lens of one refractive index
simple eye that has two or more lenses .
the deepest portions of the vagina ,  extending into the recesses created by the vaginal portion of cervix [ wp , unvetted ]  .
a c - shaped bundle of fibres  ( axons )  in the brain ,  and carries signals from the hippocampus to the mammillary bodies and septal nuclei .
an oval area in the retina ,  usually located temporal to the posterior pole of the eye and slightly below the level of the optic disk .
thickened areas of the saccule or utricle where the termination of the vestibular nerve occurs [ mesh , modified ]  .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
muscular duct that propels urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder ,  or related organs .
the fibromuscular tubular canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder to the exterior via the external urinary meatus ;  in males ,  the urethra is joined by the ejaculatory ducts and serves as a passageway for semen during ejaculation ,  as well as a canal for urine during voiding ;  in females ,  the urethra is shorter and emerges above the vaginal opening
a tubular structure that transports secreted or excreted substances .
a subdivision of the digestive tract that connects the small intestine to the cloaca or anus .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a stage that is part of the embryo stage .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
a distinct juvenile stage many animals undergo before metamorphosis into adults .
a life cycle stage of holometabolous insects in which the organism is a pupa and starts with the larval - pupal apolysis and ends with pupal - adult apolysis .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
a capillary tuft which forms a close network with the visceral epithelium  ( podocytes )  and the mesangium to form the filtration barrier and is surrounded by bowman's capsule in nephrons of the vertebrate kidney [ go ]  .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
the organs associated with producing offspring in the gender that produces spermatozoa .
the second stage of the kidney .
in mammals ,  the metanephros is the excretory organ of the fetus ,  which develops into the mature kidney and is formed from the rear portion of the nephrogenic cord .
a kidney at the most advanced stage of development in a mammal .
a mesonephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the mesonephros [ go ]  .
an epithelial swelling on the wolffian duct that elongates to invade the adjacent metanephric mesenchyme [ mp ] 
a spherical embryonic mass of blastomeres formed before the blastula and resulting from cleavage of the fertilized ovum .
a glycoprotein membrane surrounding the plasma membrane of an oocyte .
a mass of cells that develop into the body of the embryo and some extraembryonic tissues
the mesectodermal cell layer arising from the trophectoderm that erodes the uterine mucosa and contributes to the formation of the placenta
fluid - filled central region of a blastocyst .
a flattened ,  almost circular bilaminar plate of cells formed when the inner cell mass  ( aka embryoblast )  forms two epithelial layers ,  each of a distinct lineage ,  separated by an extracellular basement membrane: the external  ( dorsal )  layer is called the epiblast and the internal  ( ventral )  layer is called the hypoblast  ( aka primitive endoderm )  ;  together ,  they compose the bilaminar embryonic disc .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
a depression or fissure in the surface of an organ .
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
portion of neural crest that develops from the dorsal neural tube .
the orifice of invagination of the endomesodermal cells during the embryonic stages of an organism .
a lung lobe is one of the rounded projections that compose the lung [ go ]  .
the lung vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs [ go ]  .
instant starting or ending a life cycle stage .
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
the stage of being a sexually mature adult animal .
the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium ;  it contains basement membrane composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  proteoglycans ,  and fibronectin
the epithelial layer of the lung .
primitive gas exchange portion of the lung composed of type i and type ii cells [ go ]  .
a tube in the respiratory system .
structure derived from foregut that becomes a lung [ go ]  .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of single layer of cells connected to each other by cell junctions .
cell layer consisting of lining cells that separates the central nervous system and the bloodstream .
a layer of thin ,  concentrically arranged cells with interspersed collagen that lies within the epineurium .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
the loose connective tissue within the perineurium that continues into nerve fascicles and surrounds individual fibers .
a loose connective tissue sheath surrounding each peripheral nerve .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the cns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections ,  and including nearby cells that share the same cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
nucleus that receives projections from or contains neurons that send projections through one of the cranial nerves
the group of motor neurons residing in the pons that innervate the muscles of facial expression
prominent oval structure in the medulla oblongata ,  present in pairs ,  the lower portion of the brainstem .
foramen that pierces the transverse processes of the seven cervical vertebrae .
the medial portion of the articular surface of the humerus is named the trochlea ,  and presents a deep depression between two well - marked borders ;  it is convex from before backward ,  concave from side to side ,  and occupies the anterior ,  lower ,  and posterior parts of the extremity .
paired fin that is located in the thoracic region of the body .
paired fin located in the abdominal position of the body .
a layer of the ovarian follicle that consists of theca cells .
the theca externa is the outer layers of the theca folliculi .
theca interna cells express receptors for luteinizing hormone ,  which when activated will stimulate the production of androstenedione from cholesterol by the enzyme desmolase .
the terminal part of the large intestine ,  continuous proximally with the rectum and distally terminates with the anus .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
common chamber into which the intestines and excretory system opens .
endoderm - lined chamber that develops as pouch - like dilation of the caudal end of the hindgut and receives the allantois ventrally and two mesonephric ducts laterally ;  caudally it ends blindly at the cloacal membrane formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm [ mp ]  .
the ventral part of the cloaca remaining after septation of the rectum ,  which further develops into part of the bladder ,  part of the prostatic part of the male urethra and the urethra and vestibule in females
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
a section dividing a colon along a proximal - distal axis .
the pair of anatomical structures comprised of a left lung and right lung .
organ that functions in gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
a bodily fluid consisting of the expulsed contents of the stomach disgorged through the mouth or nose that happens as a result of a vomit reflex .
amniotic fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of watery liquid surrounding and cushioning a growing fetus within the amnion .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
pleural effusion is a bodily fluid that is produced in exess and accumulates in the pleural cavity ,  the fluid - filled space that surrounds the lungs .
a bodily fluid secreted from the body via the mouth or nose .
pus is a bodily fluid consisting of a whitish - yellow or yellow substance produced during inflammatory responses of the body that can be found in regions of pyogenic bacterial infections .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
a region of the posterior torso  ( lower back )  beneath the ribs and above the ilium .
the narrow part of the shaft of the radius just below the head .
a ridge on the cerebral cortex .
a blood brain barrier that is composed of endothelial cells .
a blood brain barrier composed of glial cells .
dorsal part  ( roof region )  of the telencephalon [ go ]  .
ventral part  ( base region )  of the telencephalon .
a thin protuberance on the surface of the body of an echinoderm containing diverticula of the water vascular system lined by ciliated peritoneum .
a gill that develops in the walls of the pharynx along a series of gill slits opening to the exterior .
a chitinous extracellular secretion of the four underlying cone cells and the pigment cells .
the bone forming the forehead and roof of the eye orbit
in humans: bone forming side and roof of cranium .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements or supporting an organ .
a specialized claw or nail on the foot of certain primates ,  used for personal grooming .
a neural arch that is part of a vertebral bone 2 .
the atlanto - occipital joint  ( articulation between the atlas and the occipital bone )  consists of a pair of condyloid joints .
a craniometric point on the posterior root of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone directly above the auricular point .
a closed space between the embryo and the amnion which contains the amniotic fluid and is formed by the fusion of the parts of the anterior and posterior amniotic folds .
an adductor muscle that attaches to the hip and femur .
a layer of membrane around a tendon .
the thin innermost layer of the extraembryonic membranes that contains the amniotic fluid ;  the membrane forms a closed sac in which the embryo and later ,  the fetus ,  is suspended and protected
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
the external portion of an animal body derived from ectoderm and mesoderm layers that encloses the body cavity .
the upper ventral region of the torso of an organism .
a skeletal muscle whose contraction extends or stretches a body part .
cartilage pertaining to the tibia .
a mucosa that is part of a cecum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the space between the arachnoid and pia mater .
a substance produced by the cervix and endocervical glands [ bto ]  .
mucosa that is part of a colon .
the inner layer of the trophoblast ,  interior to the syncytiotrophoblast in an embryo .
a mucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an embryo that is at the late embryonic stage ;  this stage covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
the branched tubular glands found in the mucosa of the fundus and body of the stomach which contain parietal cells that secrete hydrochloric acid and zymogenic cells that produce pepsin .
pancreatic juice is slightly alkaline and contains numerous enzymes and inactive enzyme precursors including alpha - amylase ,  chymotrypsinogen ,  lipase ,  procarboxypeptidase ,  proelastase ,  prophospholipase a2 ,  ribonuclease ,  and trypsinogen .
the wall of the digestive tract .
the enlarged basal part of a hair within the skin [ bto ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ileum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
bone marrow in which the fat cells predominate in the meshes of the reticular network .
a gland that is part of the intestinal mucosa .
in anatomy ,  the throat is the anterior part of the neck ,  in front of the vertebral column .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
a dielectric  ( electrically insulating )  material consisting of protein and fat that forms a layer ,  the myelin sheath ,  usually around only the axon of a neuron .
the insulating envelope that surrounds nerve fibers or axons .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the orbit and its contents ,  the nasal cavity and the skin of the nose and forehead .
a set of midline structures surrounding the brainstem of the mammalian brain ,  originally described anatomically ,  e .g . ,  hippocampal formation ,  amygdala ,  hypothalamus ,  cingulate cortex .
a fibrous membrane ,  which ,  in the neck ,  represents the supraspinal ligaments of the upper vertebrae .
functional part of an organ in the body .
a mucosa that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mammalian blastocyst is a hollow ball of cells containing two cell types ,  the inner cell mass and the trophectoderm [ go ]  .
a aired ,  lobulated ,  modified sebaceous glands located in the inguinal region adjacent to the penis and vagina ,  with pheromonal functions in male rodents ;  in males ,  the preputial gland empties into the preputial cavity and in females ,  the preputial  ( aka clitoral )  gland duct empties into the clitoral fossa .
the red vascular substance consisting of connective tissue and blood vessels ,  containing primitive blood cells ,  macrophages ,  megakaryocytes ,  and fat cells .
the inner portion of the kidney consisting of the renal pyramids
a part of the immune system that consists of the phagocytic cells located in reticular connective tissue .
an epithelial tissue layer that lines much of the urinary tract ,  including the renal pelvis ,  the ureters ,  the bladder ,  and parts of the urethra .
a skeletal muscle whose contraction bends a joint .
the adductor brevis is a muscle in the thigh situated immediately behind the pectineus and adductor longus .
the corpus striatum  ( striated body )  is a compound structure consisting of the caudate nucleus and the lentiform nucleus ,  which consists of the putamen and the globus pallidus [ wp ]  .
an adductor muscle that attaches to the pelvic bone and the femur .
extraembryonic cells of trophoblastic shell surrounding embryo ,  outside the cytotrophoblast layer ,  involved with implantation of the blastocyst by eroding extracellular matrix surrounding maternal endometrial cells at site of implantation ,  also contribute to villi .
a muscle on the upper surface of the foot that helps extend digits 2 through 4 .
on either side of the corpus collosum ,  the fibers radiate in the white substance and pass to the various parts of the cerebral cortex ;  those curving forward from the genu into the frontal lobe constitute the forceps anterior ,  and those curving backward into the occipital lobe ,  the forceps posterior .
the motor and sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the auricle ,  the external acoustic meatus ,  tympanic membrane ,  temporal region ,  the cheek ,  the skin overlying the mandible ,  the anterior portion of the tongue ,  the floor of the mouth ,  lower teeth and gingiva and transmits motor information from the muscles of mastication ,  the mylohyoid muscle and digastric muscle and the muscles tensor tympani and tensor veli palatini .
the part of the hindlimb between pelvis and the knee ,  corresponding to the femur .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the palate ,  upper teeth and gingiva ,  the skin between the palpebral fissure and the mouth ,  and from the nasal cavity and maxillary sinuses .
the muscular portion of the tongue .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory airway .
bundles of smooth muscle fibers forming the muscular wall of the urinary bladder ,  which are arranged in a longitudinal and a circular layer and ,  on contraction ,  serve to expel urine [ mp ]  .
apocrine sweat glands are sweat glands composed of a coiled secretory portion located at the junction of the dermis and subcutaneous fat ,  from which a straight portion inserts and secretes into the infundibular portion of the hair follicle .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
crescent - shaped fibrocartilaginous structure present in the knee ,  acromioclavicular ,  sternoclavicular ,  and temporomandibular joints [ 2 ]  that ,  in contrast to articular disks ,  only partly divides a joint cavity .
a part of the pharynx that consists of a flap of elastic cartilage tissue plus a mucous membrane covering ,  attached to the entrance of the larynx .
tissue that surrounds the lens nucleus
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
pia mater or arachnoid mater .
the longissimus is the muscle lateral to the semispinalis .
the group of nerve cell bodies that conveys auditory sensation from the organ of corti to the hindbrain and resides on the cochlear part of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( eighth cranial nerve )  [ mp ]  .
any of the large papillae ,  which have multiple taste buds in the trough surrounding the papillae ,  located near the base and on the dorsal side of the tongue
an epithelium that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any portion of cartilage tissue that is part of the sternum
a mucosa that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a jejunum .
the upturned perpendicular extremity of the mandible
the nasal vestibule is the most anterior part of the nasal cavity .
the outer covering of the calvaria .
one of a a paired bundle of nerve fibers plus ganglia that run from the base of the skull to the coccyx .
any of a group of sympathetic ganglia which form two chains extending from the base of the skull to the coccyx along the sides of the spinal column .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are serous secreting cells .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the cerebral cortex responsible for processing visual information .
a mesodermal signaling center of the hair follicle consisting of closely packed specialized mesenchymal fibroblasts .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are mucus secreting cells .
an anatomical wall that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a narrow fluid - containing space ,  often only a potential space ,  between the dura mater and the arachnoid .
an epithelium consisting of myopethelial cells ,  which are contractile cells resembling smooth muscle cells that are present in glands ,  notably the mammary gland ,  and aid in secretion .
a merocrine ,  unbranched ,  unbranched ,  coiled ,  tubular gland sweat gland .
gastric pits are indentations in the stomach which denote entrances to the gastric glands .
the outermost layer of trophoblast ,  produced by cytotrophoblast where there is direct contact with maternal decidua rather than blood .
the prostate epithelium .
a plexus of autonomic nerve fibers within the wall of the digestive tube ,  and made up of the submucosal ,  myenteric ,  and subserosal plexuses ;  it contains visceral afferent fibers ,  sympathetic postganglionic fibers ,  parasympathetic preganglionic and postganglionic fibers ,  and parasympathetic postganglionic cell bodies .
a nucleus medially located within the ventral nuclei of the thalamus .
a group of nuclei located in the medial portion of the ventral thalamic nuclei .
a portion of the nucleus of ansa lenticularis located medial to the posterior limb of the internal capsule ,  along the course of the ansa lenticularis and the inferior thalamic peduncle or as a separate nucleus within the internal capsule adjacent to the medial globus pallidus  ( neuronames ,  http: /  / rprcsgi .rprc .
the posterior of the two nuclei paraventriculares thalami .
the anterior of the two nuclei paraventriculares thalami .
nerve cell nuclei situated ventrally in the intermediate hypothalamic region ,  mainly in the lateral hypothalamic area .
the arachnoid barrier layer is a part of the arachnoid meningeal layer .
the arachnoid trabeculae are delicate strands of connective tissue that loosely connect the two innermost layers of the meninges  -  -  the arachnoid mater and the pia mater .
a small ,  often microscopic ,  tissue element in the form of a small beam ,  strut or rod ,  generally having a mechanical function ,  and usually but not necessarily composed of dense collagenous tissue .
a vein that drains the left pampiniform plexus and empties into the left renal vein .
a vein that drains the right pampiniform plexus and empties into the inferior vena cava .
the habenular trigone is a small depressed triangular area situated in front of the superior colliculus and on the lateral aspect of the posterior part of the taenia thalami .
gray matter structure located on the midline of the forebrain consisting of the septum pellucidum  ( in some species )  and the septal nuclei  ( heimer ,  1996 )  .
white fibrous tissue that replaces the regressing corpus luteum in the human ovary in the latter half of pregnancy ,  or soon after ovulation when pregnancy does not supervene .
the anterior part of the frontal lobes of the brain ,  lying in front of the motor and premotor areas .nnthis brain region has been implicated in planning complex cognitive behaviors ,  personality expression ,  decision making and moderating correct social behavior .
area of uterine endometrium found between the implanted chorionic vesicle and the myometrium .
the layer located below the cerebral cortex that includes the forebrain ,  midbrain and hindbrain .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
any of several small branches of the internal carotid artery that supply the trigeminal ganglion and the walls of the cavernous and petrosal sinuses .
the region of the opening of the uterine cervix into the uterine cavity .
an anatomical wall that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the paired glands located slightly posterior and to the left and right of the opening of the vagina in the superficial perineal pouch in females ;  they secrete mucus to lubricate the vagina and are homologous to bulbourethral  ( cowper's )  glands in males
small mucous glands opening upon the vestibular mucous membrane between the urethral and the vaginal orifice .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure that is a direct part of the cell .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
multi - tissue structure that is not part of a compound organ .
a gonad of a male animal .
the organs and associated structures associated with bearing offspring in a female animal .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
unilaminar epithelium which consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
compound organ that does not contain macroscopic anatomical spaces .
the ileocecal valve is a sphincter muscle situated at the junction of the small intestine  ( ileum )  and the large intestine .
a thin muscle connecting the junction between the duodenum ,  jejunum ,  and duodenojejunal flexure to connective tissue surrounding the superior mesenteric artery and coeliac artery
a muscle that arises from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchæ ,  from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra ,  and from the spinous processes of the upper three or four thoracic vertebræ and inserts the mastoid process of the temporal bone ,  and into the rough surface on the occipital bone just below the lateral third of the superior nuchal line [ wp , modified ]  .
the triangular subcallosal plate of commissural fibers resulting from the converging of the right and left fornix bundles which exchange numerous fibers and which curve back in the contralateral fornix to end in the hippocampus of the opposite side
a semifluid mass of partly digested food expelled by the stomach into the duodenum .
chyle is a bodily fluid consisting of a milky fluid consisting of lymph and emulsified fats ;  formed in the small intestine during digestion of ingested fats .
mucus is a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
interstitial fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of a solution which bathes and surrounds the cells of multicellular animals .
one of the repeated divisions of the whole organism .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
the subdivision of the vertebrate body between the thorax and pelvis .
the nutritive substance contained in the egg .
a protective ,  noncellular membrane that surrounds the eggs of various animals including insects and fish  [ go ]  .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
a double row of cells which are located at the midline from the end of gastrulations .
motor nerve of the pharynx ,  arises from the upper part of the ganglion nodosum ,  and consists principally of filaments from the cranial portion of the accessory nerve .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into an ectodermal terminal part of the digestive tract .
a muscle that acts on the pharynx [ wp ,  vetted ]  .
the pair of closely united ventral longitudinal nerves with their segmental ganglia that is characteristic of many elongate invertebrates  ( as earthworms )  [ bto ]  .
a bundle of myelinated nerve fibers passing transversely through the lamina terminalis and connecting symmetrical parts of the two cerebral hemispheres ;  it consists of a smaller anterior part  ( pars anterior commissurae anterioris )  and a larger posterior part  ( pars posterior commissurae anterioris )  .
rounded band of white fibers crossing the middle line on the dorsal aspect of the upper end of the cerebral aqueduct .
one of the parts of a holometabolous insect larva that will become a portion of the outside of the adult insect during the pupal transformation .
cranial nerve fiber tract which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons running posterior medially towards the optic chiasm ,  at which some of the axons cross the midline and after which the structure is termed the optic tract .
the frontal nerve is the largest branch of the ophthalmic ,  and may be regarded ,  both from its size and direction ,  as the continuation of the nerve .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
a membranous fold of the heart that prevents reflux of fluid
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce endocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the most superficial muscle on the medial side of the thigh .
any of a number of short transversospinal muscles chiefly developed in cervical ,  lumbar ,  and thoracic regions ,  arising from the transverse process of one vertebra and inserted into the root of the spinous process of the next two or three vertebrae above ,  with nerve supply from the dorsal branches of the spinal nerve ,  and whose actions rotate the vertebral column .
the visceral musculature comprises circular and longitudinal fibers which surround the entire intestinal tract ,  with the exception of the recurrent layer of the proventriculus .
intestinal muscle cell ,  attach to intestine and body wall anterior to anus
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the thin layer of gray matter on the surface of the cerebral hemisphere that develops from the telencephalon .
any thin layer or plate .
middle part of an organ ,  surrounded by the cortex .
a decussation of the diencephalon where the fibers of the optic nerve cross
obsolete .original definition: the pharyngeal nerve  ( pterygopalatine nerve )  is a small branch arising from the posterior part of the pterygopalatine ganglion .
the thoracic ganglia are paravertebral ganglia .
the cervical nerves are the spinal nerves from the cervical vertebrae .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
the smallest morphological and functional unit of the compound eye that consists of a usually limited and often constant number of rhabdomeric photoreceptor cells ,  cornea - secreting epithelial cells ,  and interommatidial pigment cells ,  and may additionally contain crystalline cone cells .
the paired ,  usually multiple jointed ,  sensory organs articulating on the procephalic region of the head capsule ;  its highly versatile sensory structures are capable to detect the various environmental stimuli .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
a midventral endochondral skeletal element which represents the origin site of the pectoral muscles [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
paired endochondral long bone that extends between the pectoral girdle and the skeletal parts of the forelimb .
the invaginated serous membrane that surrounds the lungs  ( the visceral portion )  and lines the walls of the pleural cavity  ( parietal portion )  .
the portion of the hindlimb that contains both the stylopod and zeugopod .
the major preaxial endochondral bone in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a bony prominence near the extremity of the femur that normally serves as attachment points for hip and thigh muscles [ mp , modified ] 
endochondral longbone connecting the pelvic girdle with posterior zeugopodium skeleton .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
a metapodium region that is part of a pes .
a flight organ of the adult external thorax that is derived from a dorsal mesothoracic disc .
vein that drains the axilla
the capitate stalk on both sides of the thorax having developed from the dorsal metathoracic wing - buds ,  it is freely movable and capable of vibration ,  representing the hind wing of diptera ;  used for flight balance .
the part of the central nervous system lying between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain ,  ventral to the cerebellum .
a intromittent organ in certain biologically male organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the gonad of a female organism which contains germ cells
a tube or collection of tubes in an animal from the ovaries to the outside of the body .
an organ of the female reproductive tract that functions to receive and store sperm from the male ,  and can sometimes be the site of fertilization when the oocytes are ready .
the female muscular organ of gestation in which the developing embryo or fetus is nourished until birth
a fibromuscular tubular tract leading from the uterus to the exterior of the body in female placental mammals and marsupials ,  or to the cloaca in female birds ,  monotremes ,  and some reptiles [ wp ]  .
external genital organs of the female mammal [ wp ]  .
either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract posterolateral to the urinary bladder and in the human male secrete a sugar -  and protein - containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct .
the ejaculatory ducts  ( ductus ejaculatorii )  are paired structures in male anatomy ,  about 2 cm in length .
a secretory duct that transports sperm from the testis .
a cuticular covering that is composed primarily of chitin .
tough but flexible ,  non - mineral outer coverings of an organism ,  or parts of an organism ,  that provide protection .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
obsolete: the mostly slit - like opening on the body surface through which air is taken into the respiratory system .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the renal system in an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products . .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
the body of the ulna at its upper part is prismatic in form ,  and curved so as to be convex behind and lateralward ;  its central part is straight ;  its lower part is rounded ,  smooth ,  and bent a little lateralward .
blood analogue used by all arthropods and most mollusks that have an open circulatory system .
the head of the radius has a cylindrical form ,  and on its upper surface is a shallow cup or fovea for articulation with the capitulum  ( or capitellum )  of the humerus .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
a group of axons linking two or more neuropils and having a common origin ,  termination [ fbbt ]  .
a slender neuron projection bundle [ fbbt ]  ;  a bundle of anatomical fibers ,  as of muscle or nerve  ( american heritage dictionary 4th ed )  .
axon tract that crosses the midline of the central nervous system [ nif ,  modified ]  .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of axons in the peripheral nervous system originating in a nerve root in the central nervous system  ( or a condensed nervous structure )  connecting with peripheral structures .
the region of a neuron receiving inputs from other neurons ,  typically a slender neurite ,  often branched .
one of the processes or extensions of a neuron ,  axon or dendrite or cell body fiber .
the structural contact that is the site of transmission between neurons ,  identified by a presynaptic ribbon and synaptic vesicles as the input element and one or  ( usually )  more postsynaptic elements with various specializations  ( membrane densities ,  cisternae ,  etc .
a motor nerve is an efferent nerve that exclusively contains the axons of somatic and branchial motoneurons ,  which innervate skeletal muscles  ( that ensure locomotion )  and branchial muscles  ( that motorize the face and neck )  [ wp ]  .
a nerve that transmits from sensory receptors on the surface of the body to the central nervous system .
a diaphysis that is part of a radius bone [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the outermost nucleated cytoplasmic layer of schwann cells that surrounds the axon of the neuron .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
the sensory system for the sense of taste .
can refer to a light sensitive organ ,  a photoreceptor cell or a photoreceptor protein .
a joint that binds the teeth to the alveolar ridge .
a filament ,  mostly protein ,  that grows from follicles found in the dermis [ wp ]  .
chordotonal organs are arthropod sensory structures consisting of special sensilla called the scolopidia ,  which are mechano - transducers and respond mainly to stretch or flexion .
a sac - like expansion of the ventral wall of the intestine ,  narrowed into a yolk stalk near the body [ hyman's ]  .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach .
saliva - secreting exocrine glands of the oral cavity [ go ] 
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
the caudalmost subdivision of a digestive tract .
large synaptic bouton found in areas like olfactory bulb ,  cerebellar cortex and thalamus ,  that contacts many post - synaptic targets [ nif ]  .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
in the developing vertebrate ,  the neural tube is the embryo's precursor to the central nervous system ,  which comprises the brain and spinal cord .
bottom part of the pharynx that connects to the esophagus .
the terminal portion of the intestinal tube ,  terminating with the anus
a system of neurons that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones ,  and that constitutes ,  in whole or in part ,  an endocrine organ or system .
a tubule that extends from the posterior part of the digestive tract which absorbs solutes ,  water ,  and wastes from the surrounding hemolymph .
one of a pair of neurohemal organs located on the walls of the aorta just behind the brain .
one of a pair of separate or fused bodies in many insects that are sometimes closely associated with the corpora cardiaca and that secrete hormones  ( as juvenile hormone )  [ bto ]  .
prominent lobed neuropils found in annelids and all arthropods except crustaceans .
a neurosecretory center of the insect brain ,  located along the anterior midline [ wiktionary ]  .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
the small lobe of the cerebellum at the posterior border of the middle cerebellar peduncle anterior to the biventer lobule that receives input from the inferior and medial vestibular nuclei and sends fibers back to the vestibular nuclei ,  and processes and integrates these signals to allow for the constant maintenance of balance
a duct joining the pancreas to the common bile duct to supply pancreatic juices which aid in digestion provided by the exocrine pancreas .
the main excretory tubular canal that connects the parotid gland and the buccal mucosa and secretes a serous saliva into the vestibule of the oral cavity ;  it arises from the anterior surface of the gland ,  traversing the masseter muscle ;  the duct then pierces the buccinator muscle ,  moving medially ,  and opens out into the oral cavity near the second upper molar ;  saliva produced by acinar secretory cells in the glandular body flows sequentially through the intercalated ducts ,  striated ducts ,  and excretory ducts .
a pad of fibrocartilage between the articular surfaces of two successive vertebral centra which has nucleus pulposus at its core .
a synovial joint between the prezygapophysis of one vertebra and the postzygapophysis of the vertebra directly above it .
a zone of skin that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the head of pancreas is a portion of the pancreas that is lodged within the curve of the duodenum ,  and is flattened anteriorly  ( from before )  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
it ascends beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius ,  distributing branches to it ,  and to the neighboring muscles and lymph glands in the neck ,  and anastomosing with the superficial branch of the descending branch of the occipital artery .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
a point along the course of the gastrointestinal tract where the small intestine  ( ileum )  ends as it opens into the cecal portion of the large intestine ;  occurs usually within the iliac fossa ,  demarcated internally as the ileocecal orifice
a potential space between the visceral and parietal layers of the pericardium .
ossified form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
a extension of a neural arches dorsal to the neural canal [ tao , modified ]  .
the transverse or costal processes of a vertebra ,  two in number ,  project one at either side from the point where the lamina joins the pedicle ,  between the superior and inferior articular processes .
the two short ,  thick processes ,  which project backward ,  one on either side ,  from the upper part of the body to the laminae
paired processes at the cephalic end of the neural arch .
paired processes at the caudal end of the neural arch .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
an epicardial layer that lines a cardiac ventricle
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
transudate contained in the pleural cavity .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
secretion produced by a sweat gland .
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
skeletal element within the mouth  ( or in some species ,  upper part of the digestive tract )  that is composed of dentine and is used in procuring or masticating food .
the first vertebral bone in the vertebral column .
the second vertebral bone in the vertebral column .
a vertebra bone that is part of the sacral region of the vertebral column .
any vertebral bone that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lymph nodes located around the axillary vein that receive lymphatic drainage from the upper or forelimb ,  scapular region and pectoral region
incisors are the first kind of tooth in heterodont mammals .
a vein that runs along the bottom of the lowest rib .
the pectoralis minor is a thin ,  triangular muscle ,  situated at the upper part of the chest ,  beneath the pectoralis major .
the external jugular vein receives the greater part of the blood from the exterior of the cranium and the deep parts of the face ,  being formed by the junction of the posterior division of the posterior facial with the posterior auricular vein .
a cartilage that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a thin musculomebranous barrier that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities .
the anterior jugular vein begins near the hyoid bone by the confluence of several superficial veins from the submaxillary region .
a paired dermal or endochondral bone that is part of the pectoral girdle .
a superficial vein of the upper limb that communicates with the basilic vein via the median cubital vein at the elbow and is located in the superficial fascia along the anterolateral surface of the biceps brachii muscle .
the sternohyoid muscle is a thin ,  narrow muscle attaching the hyoid bone to the sternum ,  one of the paired strap muscles of the infrahyoid muscles serving to depress the hyoid bone .
the omohyoid muscle is a muscle at the front of the neck that consists of two bellies separated by an intermediate tendon .
the sternothyreoideus  ( or sternothyroid muscle )  is shorter and wider than the sternohyoideus ,  beneath which it is situated .
the thyrohyoid muscle is a small ,  quadrilateral muscle appearing like an upward continuation of the sternothyreoideus .
the respiratory muscles that arise from the lower border of one rib and insert into the upper border of the adjoining rib
the latissimus dorsi is the larger ,  flat ,  dorso - lateral muscle on the trunk ,  posterior to the arm ,  and partly covered by the trapezius on its median dorsal region .
traditional gross anatomy divided the liver into four lobes based on surface features .
the right lobe is much larger than the left ;  the proportion between them being as six to one .
the left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right .
the quadrate lobe is an area of the liver situated on the under surface of the right lobe ,  bounded in front by the anterior margin of the liver ;  behind by the porta hepatis ;  on the right ,  by the fossa for the gall - bladder ;  and on the left ,  by the fossa for the umbilical vein .
the caudate lobe  ( posterior hepatic segment i ,  spigelian lobe )  is situated upon the postero - superior surface of the liver on the right lobe of the liver ,  opposite the tenth and eleventh thoracic vertebrae .
a lobe of tissue that is part of a thyroid gland .
a lobe of thyroid gland that is in the right side of a thyroid gland .
a lobe of thyroid gland that is in the left side of a thyroid gland .
the longus colli muscle is a muscle of the human body .
the scalenus medius ,  the largest and longest of the three scalene muscles ,  arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower six cervical vertebræ .
the scalenus posterior  ( scalenus posticus )  ,  the smallest and most deeply seated of the three scaleni ,  arises ,  by two or three separate tendons ,  from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower two or three cervical vertebræ ,  and is inserted by a thin tendon into the outer surface of the second rib ,  behind the attachment of the serratus ventralis .
the serratus ventralis is a muscle that originates on the surface of the upper eight or nine ribs at the side of the chest and inserts along the entire anterior length of the medial border of the scapula .
the serratus dorsalis superior is a thin ,  quadrilateral muscle ,  situated at the upper and back part of the thorax .
a muscle that originates from the vertebrae and inserts in the ribs .
a paired muscle in the superficial layers of the anterior portion of the neck .
the subscapularis is a large triangular muscle which fills the subscapular fossa and inserts into the lesser tubercle of the humerus and the front of the capsule of the shoulder - joint .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all the vertebra and associated skeletal elements and joints in the body [ modified from vsao ]  .
a foramen within a vertebral element through which the spinal cord runs .
the parathyroid gland is an endocrine gland for secretion of parathyroid hormone ,  usually found as a pair ,  embedded in the connective tissue capsule on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland .
muscle tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells ,  forming the muscles of the heart [ zfa , modified ]  .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
in anatomy ,  the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  is a blood vessel that drains blood from the small intestine .
a vein that drains the pelvis and lower limbs into the inferior vena cava .
either of the pair of major vessels which arise from the renal hilus and return blood from the kidneys ,  suprarenal gland and the ureter to the inferior vena cava .
a renal vein that drains the right kidney
a renal vein that drains the left kidney
vein that carries blood away from the liver [ zfa ]  .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from a single male gonad .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from its corresponding ovary to inferior vena cava or one of its tributaries .
a vein that drains the adrenal gland .
a nerve of the arm that originates from the brachial plexus and is formed from parts of the medial and lateral cords of the brachial plexus ,  and continues down the arm to enter the forearm with the brachial artery .
a large triangular surface of the liver devoid of peritoneal covering .
the body of the pancreas is a subsection of the pancreas organ in the human body .
the tail of the pancreas ,  located anatomically left near the hilum of the spleen ,  is not simply an anatomical distinction .
the tubular structure that conducts gall bladder contents from the gall bladder to the common bile duct
a pouch in the digestive tract that connects the ileum with the ascending colon of the large intestine .
a blind - ended tube connected to the cecum ,  from which it develops embryologically [ wp ]  .
last portion of the large intestine before it becomes the rectum .
section of colon which is distal to the cecum and proximal to the transversecolon .
the proximal - distal subdivision of colon that runs transversely across the upper part of the abdomen ,  from the right to the left colic flexure .
the portion of the colon between the left colic flexure and the sigmoid colon at the pelvic brim ;  the portion of the descending colon lying in the left iliac fossa is sometimes called the iliac colon .
the part of the large intestine that is closest to the rectum and anus .
the fundus is the portion of the stomach that lies above the cardiac notch ,  and contains the fundic glands [ go ,  kardong ]  .
the body of stomach is the part of the stomach that lies between the fundus above and the pyloric antrum below ;  its boundaries are poorly defined [ go ]  .
the part of the stomach attached to the esophagus .
the lesser curvature of the stomach ,  extending between the cardiac and pyloric orifices ,  forms the right or posterior border of the stomach .
the greater curvature of the stomach is directed mainly forward ,  and is four or five times as long as the lesser curvature .
the area at the bottom of the stomach on the caudal side of the pyloric canal that contains gastrin - producing g cells ,  which stimulate acid production ,  and the luminal ph - sensitive population of somatostatin - producing d cells
the stomach tissue region surrounding and controlling the distal outlet of the stomach ,  which opens into the duodenum
the layered structure that makes up the stomach ,  typiclly consists of a serous coat ,  a muscular coat ,  a mucous membrane ,  and other tissue layers in between
an anatomical wall that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the peritoneum responsible for connecting the jejunum and ileum  ( parts of the small intestine )  to the back wall of the abdomen .
the triangular region on the periphery of the liver lobules that contain a bile duct and a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel .
the functional unit of the liver ,  consisting of a mass of hepatocytes from adjacent liver lobules aligned around the hepatic arterioles and portal venules just as they anastomose into sinusoids .
a complex network of conduits that begins with the canals of hering  ( intralobar bile duct )  and progressively merges into a system of interlobular ,  septal ,  and major ducts which then coalesce to form the extrahepatic bile ducts ,  which finally deliver bile to the intestine ,  and in some species to the gallbladder .
the part of the biliary tree formed by the union of the cystic duct and the common hepatic duct
predominantly extrahepatic bile duct which is formed by the junction of the right and left hepatic ducts ,  which are predominantly intrahepatic ,  and ,  in turn ,  joins the cystic duct to form the common bile duct [ gaid ]  .
the duct that drains bile from the right half of the liver and joins the left hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the duct that drains bile from the left half of the liver and joins the right hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the inner layer of peritoneum that is wrapped around organs located inside the intraperitoneal space .
anatomical cavity bounded by visceral and parietal peritoneum
mesenteric artery that supplies the whole length of the small intestine except the superior part of the duodenum .
mesenteric artery that supplies the large intestine from the left colic  ( or splenic )  flexure to the upper part of the rectum ,  which includes the descending colon ,  the sigmoid colon ,  and part of the rectum .
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the kidneys .
renal artery that supplies the right kidney
renal artery that supplies the left kidney
one of a pair of arteries that is a branch of the abdominal aorta that supplies blood to a male gonad .
a testicular artery that supplies a right testicle .
a testicular artery that supplies a left testicle .
an artery that supplies an ovary .
the common iliac arteries are two large arteries ,  about 4cm long in adults but more than a centimetre in diameter ,  that originate from the aortic bifurcation .
an artery that arises from the celiac artery and supplies the stomach .
an artery that supplies the liver .
an artery that supplies the spleen .
the inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery is a branch of the superior mesenteric artery or from its first intestinal branch ,  opposite the upper border of the inferior part of the duodenum .
the middle colic artery is a branch of the superior mesenteric artery that mostly supplies the transverse colon .
the ileocolic artery is the lowest branch arising from the concavity of the superior mesenteric artery .
each  ( left and right )  superior suprarenal artery is a branch of the inferior phrenic artery on that side of the body .
the mucosal layer that lines the stomach .
the fibrous connective tissue layer beneath the stomach mucosa
the outermost layer of the stomach wall ,  consisting of layers of connective tissue continuous with the peritoneum
a strong ring of smooth muscle at the end of the pyloric canal which lets food pass from the stomach to the duodenum .
the thin layer of smooth muscle in the mucosal layer of the stomach that functions to agitate the surface area stomach mucosa by moving the villi back and forth
a mucosa that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
submucosal tissue in the small intestines .
a serous membrane that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a small intestine .
the protruding lymphoid tissue located on the mucosa of the intestine that is composed of densely packed b cell follicles
a compound tubular submucosal gland found in that portion of the duodenum which is above the hepatopancreatic sphincter  ( sphincter of oddi )  .
the tiny hair - like projections that protrude from the inside of the small intestine that contain blood vessels that capture digested nutrients that are absorbed through the intestinal wall ;  the villi increase the absorptive surface area of the small intestine by approximately 30 - fold
the pancreatic veins consist of several small vessels which drain the body and tail of the pancreas ,  and open into the trunk of the great pancreatic vein .
a blood vessel that drains blood from the large intestine that usually terminates when reaching the splenic vein ,  which goes on to form the portal vein with the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  .
a tributary of the superior mesenteric vein that drains the jejunum .
the veins that drain blood from the ileum into the superior mesenteric vein .
the middle colic vein drains the transverse colon .
the ileocolic vein is a vein which drains the ileum ,  colon ,  and cecum .
an abdominal muscle that inserts on the last rib and transverse processes of lumbar vertebrae .
the lateral abdominal wall muscle that is deep to the internal oblique .
an ureter that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ureter that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a funnel shaped proximal portion of the ureter that is formed by convergence of the major calices  [ mp ]  .
outer cortical portion of the kidney ,  between the renal capsule and the renal medulla .
portion of the urinary collecting system within the kidney that drains several minor calyces
portion of the urinary collecting system within the kidney that drains one renal papilla
tip of renal pyramid projecting into a minor calyx .
the structure containing the glomerular capsule and the glomerulus that serves as the initial blood - filtering component of a nephron
a cup - like sac at the expanded beginning of a tubular component of a nephron that contains the glomerulus
an epithelial tube that is part of the nephron ,  the functional part of the kidney .
the collecting duct is a portion of the nephron through which water flows ,  moving passively down its concentration gradient
an adrenal gland that is in the right side of the abdomen
an adrenal gland that is in the left side of the abdomen
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that produces and secretes steroid hormones such as corticosterone ,  estrone and aldosterone
the inner portion of the adrenal gland that consists mainly of chromaffin cells which produce ,  store and secrete neurotransmitters such as epinephrine and norepinephrine
a chromaffin paraganglion located at the bifurcation of the aorta or at the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery .
lamina propria that is part_of the small intestine .
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a large intestine .
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a intestine .
the tubular intestinal glands found in the mucosal membranes of the small intestine
mucosal layer that lines the intestine .
a serous membrane that is part of a wall of intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the smooth muscle ring ,  formed by an increase of the circular muscle fibers of the rectum ,  situated at the upper end of the anal canal ,  internal to the outer voluntary external anal sphincter
orifice at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth .
the canals that carry bile in the liver between the intralobular ducts and the biliary ductules ;  interlobular bile ducts are part of the interlobular portal triad .
a ligament that attaches the liver to the anterior body wall .
the splenic hilum is a location on the surface of the spleen .
the area of the white pulp where the affinity maturation of b cells and the generation of memory b cells and plasma cells occur
the parenchymatous tissue network of the spleen that consists of loose plates or cords  ( sinuses )  infiltrated with red blood cells where most of the blood filtration occurs and degenerate erythrocytes are removed from the circulation
the zone between the red and white pulp of the spleen containing numerous macrophages and lymphocytes ,  and a rich plexus of sinusoids supplied by white pulp arterioles carrying blood - borne antigens
an adventitia that is part of a ureter .
a lamina propria that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the luminal epithelium of the tube that conducts the urine from the renal pelvis to the bladder [ mp ] 
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
an anatomical wall that lines the insider of a urinary bladder .
the smooth triangular region of the wall of the urinary bladder formed by the two ureteral orifices and the internal urethral orifice ;  it is an area in which the muscle fibers are closely adherent to the mucosa
the constricted portion of the urinary bladder ,  formed by the meeting of its inferolateral surfaces proximal to the opening of the urethra [ mp ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the urinary bladder
a serous membrane that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the secretory units of the exocrine pancreas ,  where fluid containing digestive enzymes is produced ;  consists of a group of secretory cells surrounding a luminal space that connects to the pancreatic duct .
an endoderm derived structure that produces precursors of digestive enzymes and blood glucose regulating enzymes [ go ]  .
a trabecula that is part of a spleen .
a structure found in the red pulp of the spleen between the sinusoids ,  consisting of fibrils and connective tissue cells with a large population of monocytes and macrophages .
the femoral nerve ,  the largest branch of the lumbar plexus ,  arises from the ventral divisions of the second ,  third ,  and fourth lumbar nerves .
transudate contained in the peritoneal cavity .
the acetabulum is a concave surface of the pelvis .
a ring of bone formed by the sacrum and the first few coccygeal vertebrae as the roof ,  the pubis and ischia as the floor and the ilia and the acetabular part of the ischia as the walls .
the organism subdivision that includes the pelvic girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
a fused bone consisting of the ilium ,  ischium and and pubis .
paired endochondral bone that is the dorsal - most of the pelvic bones ,  offering attachment areas for gluteal muscles on its main surface  [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
endochondral bone that is paired ,  forming the posterior part of the pelvis ,  articulating with the pubis and ilium .
a paired endochondral bone making up the anteroventral region of the tripartite pelvic girdle forming part of the ventral edge of the acetabulum .
the epithelial layer of the stomach  .
epithelial layer that lines the intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a multi - organ - part structure that consists of three vessels of the portal lobule including the bile duct ,  a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel
the functional units of the liver including the lobules .
wide thin - walled blood vessels in the liver .
the tubules located between the bile canaliculi and interlobular bile ducts near the outer edge of a classic liver lobule
an intercellular channel that takes up bile from hepatocytes ,  transporting it to the bile ducts .
a column of tissue that is histologically identical to tissue found in the renal cortex ,  but which is located in the medulla between the renal pyramids .
the basic functional unit of the kidney .
a narrow chalice - shaped cavity between the glomerular and capsular epithelium of the glomerular capsule of the kidney [ tfd ]  .
the proximal convoluted tubule is the most proximal portion of the proximal tubule and extends from the glomerular capsule to the proximal straight tubule .
the section of the renal tubule in the kidney medulla with a hairpin bend ;  consists of a descending limb and an ascending limb ,  and is situated between the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule ;  it functions to reabsorb water and ions from the urine
the portion of the renal tubule that constitutes the proximal part of the loop of henle ,  has low permeability to ions and urea ,  and is highly permeable to water ;  it consists of an initial short thick segment lined by low simple cuboidal epithelium and a long thin segment lined by simple squamous epithelium ;  however ,  this distinction is not as important physiologically as in the ascending limb ,  so often the two are treated as one structure
the proximal straight tubule is the part of the descending limb that extends from the proximal convoluted tubule to the descending thin tubule .
the distal sub - portion of the ascending loop of henle which is lined by simple cuboidal epithelium and enters the renal cortex to empty a hypotonic filtrate into the distal convoluted tubule
the first segment of the nephron lying just downstream from the loop of henle ,  immediately after the macula densa .
the renal outer medulla is the region of the kidney that lies between the renal cortex and the renal inner medulla [ go ]  .
innermost region of the mammalian kidney .
the glandular mucous membrane lining of the uterine cavity that is hormonally responsive during the estrous / menstrual cycle and during pregnancy
the smooth muscle coat of the uterus ,  which forms the main mass of the organ and surrounds and supports the endometrium
outer serosa layer of the uterus .
the psoas major is a long fusiform muscle placed on the side of the lumbar region of the vertebral column and brim of the lesser pelvis .
the conic expansion of the corpus spongiosum that forms the head of the penis
the external sac of skin that encloses the testes .
the elongated structure connected to the posterior surface of the testis that transports ,  stores ,  and matures spermatozoa between testis and vas deferens
a fallopian tube that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a fallopian tube that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of simple cuboidal cells covering surface of ovary [ wp ]  .
a spherical aggregation of cells in the ovary that contains a single oocyte [ wp , modified ]  .
a cluster of cells that project into the cavity of the mature ovarian follicle .
a capsule that surrounds a female gonad .
the external iliac artery is a large artery in the pelvic region that carries blood to the lower limb .
the internal iliac artery  ( formerly known as the hypogastric artery )  is the main artery of the pelvis .
the umbilical artery is a paired artery  ( with one for each half of the body )  that is found in the abdominal and pelvic regions .
an artery that supplies blood to the lower urinary bladder .
an artery that supplies blood to the upper urinary bladder .
the iliolumbar artery is a branch of the posterior trunk of the internal iliac artery .
the obturator artery passes antero - inferiorly  ( forwards and downwards )  on the lateral wall of the pelvis ,  to the upper part of the obturator foramen ,  and ,  escaping from the pelvic cavity through the obturator canal ,  it divides into both an anterior and a posterior branch .
the superior gluteal artery  ( gluteal artery )  is the largest branch of the internal iliac artery ,  and appears to be the continuation of the posterior division of that vessel .
a large vein that connects the femoral vein to the common iliac vein .
a vein that begins near the upper part of the greater sciatic foramen ,  passes upward behind and slightly medial to the hypogastric artery and ,  at the brim of the pelvis ,  joins with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein .
one the veins that drains the vaginal venous plexus ,  into the hypogastric veins .
the iliolumbar vein is the vena comitans of the iliolumbar artery .
the obturator vein begins in the upper portion of the adductor region of the thigh and enters the pelvis through the upper part of the obturator foramen ,  in the obturator canal .
a large nerve that supplies nearly the whole of the skin of the leg ,  the muscles of the back of the thigh ,  and those of the leg and foot .
the tibial nerve is a branch of the sciatic nerve .
a nerve arising at the terminal division of the sciatic nerve at the popliteal fossa and extending to the neck of the fibula ,  ultimately innervating the peroneus muscle [ mp ]  .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the pelvis .
the levator ani is a broad ,  thin muscle ,  situated on the side of the pelvis .
the coccygeus is a muscle of the pelvic wall  ( i .e .
a portion of a prostate that forms a lobe .
the pampiniform plexus is a network of many small veins found in the male spermatic cord .
a zone of skin that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis and protects the urinary meatus when the penis is not erect .
a urethra that is part of a male reproductive system .
a urethra that is part of a female reproductive system .
the widest and most dilatable part of the male urethra canal which runs almost vertically through the prostate from its base to its apex ,  lying nearer its anterior than its posterior surface ;  this portion of the urethral canal is spindle - shaped ,  being wider in the middle than at either extremity ,  and narrowest below ,  where it joins the membranous portion ;  it is lined by transitional epithelium and contains in its posterior wall ,  or floor ,  the orifices of the prostatic utricle ,  ejaculatory ducts ,  and prostatic ducts ,  collectively known as the seminal colliculus  ( aka verumontanum ) 
the longest part of the male urethra contained in the corpus spongiosum and extending from the end of the membranous portion to the external urethral orifice ;  commencing below the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm it passes forward and upward to the front of the symphysis pubis ;  and then ,  in the flaccid condition of the penis ,  it bends downward and forward ;  while narrow and of uniform size in the body of the penis ,  it is dilated behind ,  within the bulb ,  and again anteriorly within the glans penis ,  where it forms the fossa navicularis urethrae ;  the spongy urethra is lined by pseudostratified columnar epithelium proximally ,  and by stratified squamous epithelium distally
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the male or female urethra that help protect the epithelium from the corrosive urine
the ischiocavernosus muscle is a muscle just below the surface of the perineum ,  present in both men and women .
the dorsal artery of the penis ascends between the crus penis and the pubic symphysis ,  and ,  piercing the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm ,  passes between the two layers of the suspensory ligament of the penis ,  and runs forward on the dorsum of the penis to the glans ,  where it divides into two branches ,  which supply the glans and prepuce .
the lesser sac ,  also known as the omental bursa ,  is the cavity in the abdomen that is formed by the lesser and greater omentum .
the mesentery that suspends the ovary from the dorsal wall of the coelom [ vhog ]  .
the tubules in the testes where spermatogenesis occurs .
the epithelial layer of the vagina .
a membrane that surrounds or partially covers the vaginal opening .
connective tissue consisting of fat - storing cells and arranged in lobular groups or along minor blood vessels [ mp , modified ] 
a thermogenic form of adipose tissue that is composed of brown adipocytes [ mp , modified ] 
anatomical cavity that connects an organ cavity ,  organ cavity subdivision or cavity of body part subdivision to the exterior ,  completely or partially surrounded by organs or organ parts that are lined by epithelium .
a collection of caudal vertebrae in the coccygeal region that are fused and part of the bony pelvis .
the upper dilated end of the nasolacrimal duct that is lodged in a deep groove formed by the lacrimal bone and frontal process of the maxilla ;  it connects the lacrimal canaliculi ,  which drain tears from the eye's surface ,  and the nasolacrimal duct ,  which conveys this fluid into the nasal cavity ;  like the nasolacrimal duct ,  the sac is lined by stratified columnar epithelium with mucus - secreting goblet cells ,  and is surrounded by connective tissue .
a tube running from the outer ear to the middle ear .
the anus and surrounding regions .
the artery that arises from the external iliac artery and anastomoses with the superior epigastric artery .
the profunda femoris artery  ( also known as the deep femoral artery ,  or the deep artery of the thigh )  is a branch of the femoral artery that ,  as its name suggests ,  travels more deeply  ( posteriorly )  than the rest of the femoral artery .
the medial circumflex femoral artery  ( internal circumflex artery ,  medial femoral circumflex artery )  is an artery in the upper thigh that helps supply blood to the neck of the femur .
the inferior rectal artery  ( inferior hemorrhoidal artery )  is an artery that supplies blood to the lower half of the anal canal .
the perineal artery  ( superficial perineal artery )  arises from the internal pudendal artery ,  and turns upward ,  crossing either over or under the transversus perinæi superficialis ,  and runs forward ,  parallel to the pubic arch ,  in the interspace between the bulbocavernosus and ischiocavernosus ,  both of which it supplies ,  and finally divides into several posterior scrotal branches which are distributed to the skin and dartos tunic of the scrotum .
a clear ,  colorless ,  bodily fluid ,  that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain and spinal cord .
a vein that corresponds to the deep circumflex iliac artery and empties near or in a common trunk with the inferior epigastric vein into the external iliac vein ;  deep circumflex iliac vein .
in the human body ,  the femoral vein is a blood vessel that accompanies the femoral artery in the femoral sheath .
the great saphenous vein  ( gsv )  ,  also greater saphenous vein ,  is the large  ( subcutaneous )  superficial vein of the leg and thigh .
the joint in the bony pelvis between the sacrum and the ilium of the pelvis ,  which are joined by strong ligaments .
the outer layer of peritoneum that is attached to the abdominal and pelvic walls .
the sphincter ani externus  ( external anal sphincter )  is a flat plane of muscular fibers ,  elliptical in shape and intimately adherent to the integument surrounding the margin of the anus .
an adductor muscle that attaches to the femur and the pelvis .
the iliacus is a flat ,  triangular muscle ,  which fills the iliac fossa .
the largest and most superficial of the three gluteal muscles  [ wp , unvetted ]  .
one of three gluteal muscles ,  is a broad ,  thick ,  radiating muscle ,  situated on the outer surface of the pelvis .
the psoas minor is a long ,  slender skeletal muscle that ,  when present ,  is placed in front of the psoas major muscle .
the sartorius muscle  -  the longest muscle in the human body  -  is a long thin muscle that runs down the length of the thigh .
the biceps femoris is a muscle of the posterior  ( the back )  thigh .
the semitendinosus is a muscle in the back of the thigh ;  it is one of the hamstrings .
the tensor fasciae latae or tensor fasciæ latæ is a muscle of the thigh .
one of the muscles belong to the group consisting of the rectus femoris and the three heads of the vastus  ( lateralis ,  medialis ,  intermedius )  .
the rectus femoris muscle is one of the four quadriceps muscles of the human body .
the vastus lateralis  ( vastus externus )  is the largest part of the quadriceps femoris .
the vastus medialis ,  often called the 'teardrop' muscle ,  is a medially located muscle of the quadriceps .
the semimembranosus is a muscle in the back of the thigh .
an adductor muscle that attaches to the pelvic bone and the femur .
a muscle that is part of the region of the hindlimb between the pelvis and ankle .
the part of the cerebral cortex that receives projections from the motor thalamus and which projects to motor neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord .
a muscle that originates in the upper two - thirds of the lateral surface of the tibia and inserts into the medial cuneiform and first metatarsal bones of the foot .
a penniform muscle of the lateral front part of the hindlimb responsible for extension of the digits and dorsiflexion of the ankle .
a superficial muscle in the lateral compartment of the leg ,  and acts to evert and plantar flex the ankle .
the most superficial muscle of the triceps surae group ,  in the posterior portion of the lower hindleg .
a deep muscle of the triceps surae group ,  in the superficial posterior compartment of the leg .
the sural arteries  ( inferior muscular arteries )  are two large branches ,  which are distributed to the gastrocnemius ,  soleus ,  and plantaris .
the popliteus muscle in the leg is used to unlock the knee by laterally rotating the femur on the tibia during a closed chain movement  ( such as one with the foot in contact with the ground )  .
a deep muscle of the posterior compartment of the hindlimb that is innervated by the tibial nerve ,  arises from the fibula and insets in the distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
the part of the brain that is the ultimate target of afferent auditory information .
artery that supplies the axilla
the thoracoacromial artery  ( acromiothoracic artery ;  thoracic axis )  is a short trunk ,  which arises from the forepart of the axillary artery ,  its origin being generally overlapped by the upper edge of the pectoralis minor .
a blood vessel that supplies oxygenated blood to the lateral structures of the thorax and breast .
the subscapular artery ,  the largest branch of the axillary artery ,  arises at the lower border of the subscapularis ,  which it follows to the inferior angle of the scapula ,  where it anastomoses with the lateral thoracic and intercostal arteries and with the descending branch of the transverse cervical ,  and ends in the neighboring muscles .
the brachial artery is the major blood vessel of the  ( upper )  arm .
the arteria profunda brachii  ( also known as deep artery of the arm and the deep brachial artery )  is a large vessel which arises from the medial and back part of the brachial ,  just below the lower border of the teres major .
the iliocostalis dorsi  ( musculus accessorius ;  iliocostalis thoracis )  arises by flattened tendons from the upper borders of the angles of the lower six ribs medial to the tendons of insertion of the iliocostalis lumborum ;  these become muscular ,  and are inserted into the upper borders of the angles of the upper six ribs and into the back of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra .
the longissimus thoracis is the intermediate and largest of the continuations of the sacrospinalis . [ wp ]  .
a muscle with origin in transverse processes of upper thoracic vertebrae ,  and insertion in transverse processes of middle and upper cervical vertebrae that extends cervical vertebrae .
a longissimus muscle that lies medial to the longissimus cervicis ,  between it and the semispinalis capitis .
branch of the brachial artery beginning below the elbow and extending down the forearm around the wrist and into the palm .
origin: spinous processes of two upper lumbar and two lower thoracic ;  insertion: spines of upper thoracic vertebrae ;  innervation: branches of spinal nerves ;  action: extends vertebral column .
the ulnar artery is the main blood vessel ,  with oxygenated blood ,  of the medial aspect of the forearm .
the semispinalis dorsi  ( or semispinalis thoracis )  consists of thin ,  narrow ,  fleshy fasciculi ,  interposed between tendons of considerable length .
the semispinalis cervicis  ( semispinalis colli )  ,  thicker than the semispinalis dorsi ,  arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy fibers from the transverse processes of the upper five or six thoracic vertebræ ,  and is inserted into the cervical spinous processes ,  from the axis to the fifth inclusive .
the semispinalis capitis  ( complexus )  is situated at the upper and back part of the neck ,  deep to the splenius ,  and medial to the longissimus cervicis and capitis .
three common palmar digital arteries arise from the convexity of the superficial palmar arch and proceed distally on the second ,  third ,  and fourth lumbricales muscles .
a superficial vein of the upper limb that drain parts of manus and forearm .
a vein that accompanies the brachial artery between the shoulder and the elbow .
a vein between the biceps and pronator radii teres muscles that unites with the common ulnar vein to form the basilic vein within the forearm .
a zone of skin that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein formed by the confluence of the thoracodorsal and circumflex scapular veins and accompanying the subscapular artery to drain into the axillary vein .
an organism subdivision that includes the pectoral girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a face  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the major preaxial endochondral bone in the anterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
the major postaxial endochondral bone in the anterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
endochondral proximal carpal bone articulating with the radius .
endochondral carpal bone articulating with the ulnare and the radiale .
a laterally positioned sesamoid bone found in close proximity with and occasionally fused to the ulnare .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
a bone that is part of the carpal skeleton .
a phalanx that is part of a forelimb autopod [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the head of a long bone that articulates with a neighboring skeletal element and is separated from the shaft by the epiphyseal plate until bone growth stops .
zone of long bone that is between the epiphysis and diaphysis .
the outer layers of solid ,  hard bone that covers spongy bone ;  consists of parallel osteons containing mineral deposits and interstitial lamellae
the collection of all skeletal elements in a free forelimb region .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb region .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a manus ,  which is the distal section of the anterior forelimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the neck by the plane of the superior thoracic aperture and from the abdomen internally by the inferior surface of the diaphragm and externally by the costal margin and associated with the thoracic vertebral column and ribcage and from the back of the thorax by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage ,  the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines ;  together with the abdomen and the perineum ,  it constitutes the trunk proper [ fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a pes ,  which is the distal section of the posterior hindlimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
the major postaxial endochondral bone in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a bone that is part of the tarsal skeleton .
the metatarsus or metatarsal bones are a group of five long bones in the pes located between the tarsal bones of the hind -  and mid - pes and the phalanges of the toes .
a phalanx that is part of a hindlimb autopod [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the postaxial bone of the proximal tarsals series [ phenoscape ]  .
the oval - shaped tarsal bone found between the talus and the 3 cuneiform bones
endochondral tarsal bone articulating with centralia and metatarsal 1 .
endochondral tarsal bone articulating with centralia and metatarsal 2 .
endochondral tarsal bone articulating with centralia and metatarsal 3 .
a tarsal bone that is formed from distal tarsals 4 and 5 .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a zone of skin that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the forelimb extending from the shoulder to the autopod [ cjm ]  .
the elbow is the region surrounding the elbow - joint - the ginglymus or hinge joint in the middle of the arm .
1st  ( preaxial )  digit of the manus [ wikipedia ]  .
the hip region is located lateral to the gluteal region  ( i .e .
a segment of the hindlimb that corresponds to the joint connecting a hindlimb stylopod and zeugopod .
a digit that is part of a pes  ( foot )  .
a subdivision of the pectoral complex consisting of the structures in the region of the shoulder joint  ( which connects the humerus ,  scapula and clavicle )  .
the joint between adjacent vertebral bodies .
the sternoclavicular articulation is a double arthrodial joint composed of two portions separated by an articular disc .
the glenohumeral joint ,  commonly known as the shoulder joint ,  is a multiaxial synovial ball and socket joint and involves articulation between the glenoid fossa of the scapula  ( shoulder blade )  and the head of the humerus  ( upper arm bone )  .
the loose fold of skin that covers the penis
the vaginal plexuses are placed at the sides of the vagina ;  they communicate with the uterine ,  vesical ,  and hemorrhoidal plexuses ,  and are drained by the vaginal veins ,  one on either side ,  into the hypogastric veins .
a vessel that contains or conveys lymph ,  that originates as an interfibrillar or intercellular cleft or space in a tissue or organ ,  and that if small has no distinct walls or walls composed only of endothelial cells and if large resembles a vein in structure [ bto ]  .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
a muscle of shoulder which attaches to the scapula ,  clavicle and humerus .
the infraspinatus muscle is a thick triangular muscle ,  which occupies the chief part of the infraspinatous fossa .
teres major is a muscle of the upper limb and one of six scapulohumeral muscles .
a sesamoid element that is composed of bone tissue .
a carpal bone that proximally_connected_to a forelimb zeugopod skeleton .
a distal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
any muscle organ that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a shoulder region .
an articular capsule  ( or joint capsule )  is an envelope surrounding a synovial joint .
the knee joint joins the thigh with the leg and consists of two articulations: one between the femur and tibia ,  and one between the femur and patella .
a synovial joint that connects the femur to the acetbulum of the innominate bone .
a skeletal joint that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the hindlimb autopod and zeugopod skeletons .
a skeletal joint that is part of a manus  ( hand )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the forelimb zeugopod and stylopod skeletons [ obol ]  .
a joint connecting the forelimb zeugopod skeleton with the carpal skeleton .
a nerve that supplies the upper limb ,  including the triceps brachii muscle of the arm ,  as well as all 12 muscles in the posterior osteofascial compartment of the forearm ,  as well as the associated joints and overlying skin .
the axillary nerve is a nerve of the human body ,  that comes off the posterior cord of the brachial plexus at the level of the axilla  ( armpit )  and carries nerve fibers from c5 and c6 .
a nerve which runs near the ulna bone .
muscles of the upper chest .
the ascending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two - pass circulatory system that lies between the heart and the arch of aorta [ go ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lumbricals are intrinsic muscles of the manus that flex the metacarpophalangeal joints and extend the interphalangeal joints
any of the interosseous muscles of the manus  ( hand )  .
the dorsal interossei of the hand are muscles that occupy the space between the metacarpals .
the lumbricals are four small skeletal muscles ,  accessory to the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus and numbered from the medial side of the pes ;  they arise from these tendons ,  as far back as their angles of division ,  each springing from two tendons ,  except the first .
the coracobrachialis is the smallest of the three muscles that attach to the coracoid process of the scapula .
the brachialis  ( brachialis anticus )  is a muscle in the upper arm that flexes the elbow joint .
a muscle in the forelimb stylopod which in humans has several functions ,  the most important being to rotate the forearm and to flex the elbow .
the convex portion of the aorta between the ascending and descending parts of the aorta ;  branches from it include the brachiocephalic trunk ,  the left common carotid artery ,  and the left subclavian artery ;  the brachiocephalic trunk further splits to form the right subclavian artery and the right common carotid artery
the triceps brachii muscle  ( latin for 'three - headed' muscle of the arm ,  it is called a three headed muscle because there are three bundles of muscle ,  each of different origin ,  joining together at the elbow )  is the large muscle on the back of the human upper limb .
a zone of skin that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the descending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two - pass circulatory system from the arch of aorta to the point where it divides into the common iliac arteries [ go ]  .
the part of the aorta that extends from the origin at the heart to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest
abdominal part of aorta: the distal part of the descending aorta ,  which is the continuation of the thoracic part and gives rise to the inferior phrenic ,  lumbar ,  median sacral ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ,  middle suprarenal ,  renal ,  and testicular or ovarian arteries ,  and celiac trunk [ bto ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the pronator teres is a muscle of the human body  ( located mainly in the forearm )  that ,  along with the pronator quadratus ,  serves to pronate the forearm  ( turning it so the palm faces posteriorly )  .
a muscle of the forearm that acts to flex and abduct the manus .
the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle  ( fcu )  is a muscle of the human forearm that acts to flex and adduct the manus .
a muscle in the forearm that flexes the manual digits [ wp , modified ]  .
extensor carpi radialis longus is one of the five main muscles that control movements at the wrist .
the extensor carpi radialis brevis is shorter and thicker than the extensor carpi radialis longus .
extensor carpi ulnaris is a muscle located in the forearm that acts to extend and adduct the wrist .
the abductor pollicis longus lies immediately below the supinator and is sometimes united with it .
a joint that connects the radius and the ulna .
the short first aortic arch branch and divides into the right subclavian artery and the right common carotid artery
a bilaterally paired branched artery that originates from the aortic arches and divides into and includes as parts the internal and external carotid arteries [ cjm ]  .
the rightmost of the two common carotid arteries ,  originating from in the neck from the brachiocephalic trunk .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to the brain and eyes [ mp ] 
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the pectoral appendages ,  usually branching from the dorsal aorta
the subclavian artery that supplies the right pectoral appendage
the first branch of the left and right subclavian arteries that merge to form the single midline basilar artery ;  branches of the vertebral arteries supply the musculature of the neck
the leftmost of the two common carotid arteries ,  originating from the aortic arch in the thorax .
the anterior tibial artery of the lower limb carries blood to the anterior compartment of the leg and dorsal surface of the foot ,  from the popliteal artery .
the posterior tibial artery of the lower limb carries blood to the posterior compartment of the leg and plantar surface of the foot ,  from the popliteal artery .
a blood vessel of the lower limb that carries oxygenated blood to the dorsal surface of the foot .
an artery that supplies blood to the lateral compartment of the leg and is typically a branch of posterior tibial artery .
the medial plantar artery  ( internal plantar artery )  ,  much smaller than the lateral ,  passes forward along the medial side of the foot .
the lymph nodes located in the groin area
the lymph nodes which drain the legs ;  contained in the popliteal fossa
the popliteal vein course runs alongside the popliteal artery but carries the blood from the knee joint and muscles in the thigh and calf back to the heart .
a vein of the lower limb that carries blood from the anterior compartment of the leg to the popliteal vein which is forms when it joins with the posterior tibial vein .
a vein of the lower limb carries blood from the posterior compartment and plantar surface of the foot to the popliteal vein which it forms when it joins with the anterior tibial vein .
the small saphenous vein  ( also lesser saphenous vein )  ,  is a relatively large vein of the superficial posterior leg .
a continuation of the dorsal venous arch of the foot and is the origin of the short saphenous vein
the dorsal metatarsal veins are veins which drain the metatarsus of the foot .
a continuation of the dorsal venous arch of the foot and is the origin of the long saphenous vein
one of the curved arteries at the corticomedullary border of the kidney that arise from the interlobar arteries and give rise to the interlobular arteries .
the medial tarsal arteries are two or three small branches which ramify on the medial border of the foot and join the medial malleolar net - work .
a zone of skin that is part of a hip region .
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the urinary bladder and the urethra .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the nose and ends distally with the cricoid cartilage ,  before continuing to the trachea .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
an artery that runs along the bottom of the lowest rib .
a group of muscles  ( or in some classifications ,  muscle bellies )  that are located under the jaw and attach to the base of the cranium and typically attaches to the hyoid apparatus via a common tendon .
a muscle that arises by four tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the third ,  fourth ,  fifth ,  and sixth cervical vertebrae and inserts into the inferior surface of the basilar part of the occipital bone .
the mylohyoid is a pharyngeal arch i muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors and is innervated by the nerve to mylohyoid and attaches to the midline raphe linking right and left mylohyoid and the mandible .
the geniohyoid is a muscle that attaches to the mandible and the hyoid apparatus and is innervated by the first cervical nerve  ( c1 )  .
intrinsic muscle of the larynx ,  innervated by the external division of the laryngeal nerve ,  a branch of the vagus nerve .
a fleshy subdivision of one side of the face bounded by an eye ,  ear and the nose .
the muscles associated with the larynx .
pharyngeal constrictor refers to one of the muscles that serves to constrict the pharynx .
the inferior pharyngeal constrictor ,  the thickest of the three constrictors ,  arises from the sides of the cricoid and thyroid cartilage .
either of a pair of lingual muscles with origin in the mandible ,  with insertion to the lingual fascia below the mucous membrane and epiglottis ,  with nerve supply from the hypoglossal nerve ,  and whose action depresses and protrudes the tongue .
a muscle that attaches to the hyopid bone and to the tongue and is innervated by cranial nerve xii
the styloglossus ,  the shortest and smallest of the three styloid muscles ,  arises from the anterior and lateral surfaces of the styloid process ,  near its apex ,  and from the stylomandibular ligament .
the palatoglossus ,  glossopalatinus ,  or palatoglossal muscle is a small fleshy fasciculus ,  narrower in the middle than at either end ,  forming ,  with the mucous membrane covering its surface ,  the glossopalatine arch .
a muscle organ that attaches the tongue to some other structure .
the intrinsic tongue muscles are an integral part of the tongue and completely contained within the tongue that are innervated by cranial nerve xii .
a muscle innervated by a facial nerve .
a circumorbital muscle in the face that closes the eyelid [ hp ]  .
nerve that carries information from the olfactory epithelium to the olfactory bulb [ butler and hodos ]  .
the levator labii superioris  ( or quadratus labii superioris )  is a broad sheet ,  the origin of which extends from the side of the nose to the zygomatic bone .
a muscle of facial expression ,  innervated by the facial nerve ,  attached to the skin of the lower lip ,  orbicularis oris muscle ,  and mandible ,  and superficial and lateral to the mentalis muscle .
the buccinator is a muscle that is attached to the mandible ,  skin ,  pterygomandibular raphe and maxilla ,  and is innervated by cranial nerve vii and participates in oropharyngeal behavior .
auricular muscle attaching the cartilage of the ear to the epicranial aponeurosis .
the subclavian artery that supplies the left pectoral appendage
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
one of two jugular veins that collect the blood from the brain ,  the superficial parts of the face ,  and the neck .
the subclavian vein is a paired large vein ,  one on either side of the body .
the vertebral vein is formed in the suboccipital triangle ,  from numerous small tributaries which spring from the internal vertebral venous plexuses and issue from the vertebral canal above the posterior arch of the atlas .
a vessel that drains the chest wall and breats and arises from the superior epigastric vein ,  accompanies the internal thoracic artery along its course and terminates in the brachiocephalic vein . .
vena comitans of the pericardiacophrenic arteries .
a vein that drains blood from the thymus .
the bronchial veins are small vessels that return blood from the larger bronchi and structures at the roots of the lungs .
a congregation of multiple veins .
an unpaired vein which in humans arises from the right ascending lumbar vein or the vena cava ,  enters the thorax through the aortic orifice in the diaphragm ,  and terminates in the superior vena cava ;  unlike humans ,  mice have a single and left - sided azygos vein that develops from the paired embryonic cardinal venous system and drains most of the right and left thoracic walls into the left anterior vena cava [ mp ]  .
a muscle that is part of the pinna and is attached to the auricular cartilage
auricular muscle attached only to the cartilage of the ear and not to the epicranial aponeurosis
pharyngeal arch 1 muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors ,  is innervated by masseteric nerve branches of the trigeminal nerve  ( cn v )  ,  and attaches to mandible and zygomatic arch .
pharyngeal arch 1 muscle that is innervated by the deep temporal branches of the trigeminal nerve and attaches to the wall of the braincase  ( including the cranial vault )  and mandible .
the muscle that stabilizes the stapes bone .
the larger of the two muscles of the tympanic cavity ,  is contained in the bony canal above the osseous portion of the auditory tube .
skeletal muscle derived from cranial mesoderm and controls eye movements .
the medial rectus muscle is a muscle in the orbit .
the lateral rectus muscle is a muscle in the orbit .
the levator palpebrae superioris  ( or levator muscle of upper eyelid )  is the muscle in the orbit that elevates the superior  ( upper )  eyelid .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the iris .
a smooth muscle of the eye ,  running radially in the iris that functions as a dilator .
a narrow median bridge that joins together the lower thirds of the two lateral  ( right and left )  lobes of the thyroid gland and usually covers the second and the third tracheal rings ;  the thyroid isthmus is variable in presence and size ,  can change shape and size ,  and can encompass a cranially extending pyramid lobe  ( lobus pyramidalis or processus pyramidalis )  ,  remnant of the thyroglossal duct
the lingual artery arises from the external carotid between the superior thyroid and facial artery [ wp ]  .
a branch of the lingual artery that supplies the sublingual gland .
a branch of the external carotid artery that supplies structures of the face .
the occipital artery arises opposite the facial artery ,  its path is below the posterior belly of digastric to the occipital region .
a major artery of the head that arises from the external carotid artery when it bifurcates into the superficial temporal artery and maxillary artery .
the transverse facial artery is an artery that branches from the superficial temporal artery and runs across the face .
an artery that supplies deep structures of the face .
the mental branch of inferior alveolar artery escapes with the nerve at the mental foramen ,  supplies the chin ,  and anastomoses with the submental and inferior labial arteries .
the buccal artery  ( buccinator artery )  is small and runs obliquely forward ,  between the pterygoideus internus and the insertion of the temporalis ,  to the outer surface of the buccinator ,  to which it is distributed ,  anastomosing with branches of the external maxillary and with the infraorbital .
the ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal carotid artery which supplies branches to supply the eye and other structures in the orbit .
the central retinal artery  ( retinal artery )  branches off the ophthalmic artery ,  running inferior to the optic nerve within its dural sheath to the eyeball .
an artery that supplies the myocardium .
the lacrimal artery arises close to the optic foramen ,  and is one of the largest branches derived from the ophthalmic artery: not infrequently it is given off before the artery enters the orbit .
the dorsal nasal artery  ( nasal artery )  is an artery of the head .
one of a pair of arteries on the brain that supply oxygen to most medial portions of frontal lobes and superior medial parietal lobes .
coronary artery which runs along the right side of the heart and predominantly supplies the mycocardium of the right side of the heart [ wikipedia , modified ] 
coronary artery which runs along the left side of the heart and predominantly supplies the mycocardium of the left side of the heart [ wikipedia , modified ] 
the middle cerebral artery  ( mca )  is one of the three major paired arteries that supplies blood to the cerebrum .
one of a pair of right - sided and left - sided blood vessels in the circle of willis .
a small epithelioid structure consisting of a small cluster of chemoreceptive and supporting cells located near the bifurcation of the common carotid artery that serves as a chemoreceptive organ that senses the ph ,  carbon dioxide ,  and oxygen concentrations in the blood and plays a crucial role in their homeostatic control .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
a major lymphatic vessel that drains lymph from the lower body ,  left appendage ,  and left thorax into the junction of the left jugular and subclavian veins .
a major artery that supplues the hindbrain and runs along the ventral keel of the hindbrain .
the major artery of the midbrain ,  which crosses the midbrain medially to meet its partner the mesencephalic vein .
the superior cerebellar artery  ( sca )  arises near the termination of the basilar artery .
the posterior cerebral artery  ( pca )  is one of a pair of blood vessels that supplies oxygenated blood to the posterior aspect of the brain in human anatomy ]  .
an epithelial tube or tree of tibes that transports blood away from the heart [ modified from aeo definition ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
a portal vein that transports nutrients from the digestive tract to the liver [ kardong ]  .
the first major branch of the abdominal aorta .
one of the dural venous sinuses and drains the superior sagittal sinus the occipital sinus and the straight sinus ,  and empties into the sigmoid sinus which in turn reaches the jugular bulb .
the superior sagittal sinus  ( also known as the superior longitudinal sinus )  ,  within a human cranium ,  is an area above / behind the brain ,  which allows blood veins to span the area ,  from the top of the head towards the back .
cranial nerve which connects the midbrain to the extra - ocular and intra - ocular muscles .
a cranial nerve that runs to the eye muscles .
cranial nerve that has three branches  -  the ophthalmic  ( supplying the skin of the nose and upper jaw )  ,  the maxillary and the mandibular  ( supplying the lower jaw )  .
cranial nerve that runs to the eye muscles .
cranial nerve that branches into the supraorbital  ( supplying the skin of the eye region and the lateral line organs here )  ,  the palatine  ( to the roof of the buccal cavity )  ,  and the hyomandibular  ( dividing into the jugular and mental branches )  .
cranial nerve that transmits sound and equilibrium  ( balance )  information from the inner ear to the brain .
cranial nerve that branches into the ramus communicans  ( to the skin )  ,  the pretrematic  ( to the walls of the pharynx and mouth ,  viscero - sensory fibers )  ,  and the larval post - trematic branch  ( lost in the adult )  .
cranial nerve that innervates the muscles of the tongue .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the right lung .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the left lung .
the anterior facial vein  ( facial vein )  commences at the side of the root of the nose ,  and is a direct continuation of the angular vein where it also receives a small nasal branch .
the supraorbital vein begins on the forehead where it communicates with the frontal branch of the superficial temporal vein .
a vein in the chin that is connected to the sublingual and anterior jugular veins and drains into the facial vein .
the retromandibular vein  ( temporomaxillary vein ,  posterior facial vein )  ,  formed by the union of the superficial temporal and maxillary veins ,  descends in the substance of the parotid gland ,  superficial to the external carotid artery but beneath the facial nerve ,  between the ramus of the mandible and the sternocleidomastoideus muscle .
the superficial temporal vein is a vein of the side of the head .
a temporal vein that arises near the lateral angle of the eye ;  joins the superficial temporal veins to form the retromandibular vein .
a tributary of the superficial temporal or retromandibular veins ,  anastomosing with the facial vein .
a vein that consists of a short trunk which accompanies the first part of the internal maxillary artery .
the blood vessels at the vertex and on either side of the head that drain deoxygenated blood into the pterygoid venous plexus .
the anterior auricular veins are veins which drain the anterior aspect of the external ear .
the cerebral veins are divisible into external and internal groups according to the outer surfaces or the inner parts of the hemispheres they drain into .
the inferior cerebral veins ,  of small size ,  drain the under surfaces of the hemispheres .
the triceps surae is a pair of muscles located at the calf  -  the gastrocnemius and the soleus .
the flexor digitorum longus is situated on the tibial side of the leg .
the tibialis posterior is the most central of all the leg muscles ,  and is located in the posterior compartment of the leg .
a vein that drains the cerebellum .
the superior cerebellar veins pass partly forward and medialward ,  across the superior vermis ,  to end in the straight sinus and the internal cerebral veins ,  partly lateralward to the transverse and superior petrosal sinuses .
the inferior cerebellar veins are of large size ,  end in the transverse ,  superior petrosal ,  and occipital sinuses .
any of the veins draining the temporal region .
the central retinal vein  ( retinal vein )  is a short vein that runs through the optic nerve and drains blood from the capillaries of the retina into the larger veins outside the eye .
a plexiform vein accompanying the masseteric artery that empty into the pterygoid venous plexus .
the cranial ganglion that is associated with and extends fibers into the trigeminal nerve .
the bone at the lower ,  posterior part of the skull
an unpaired bone situated at the base of the skull in front of the temporal bone and basilar part of the occipital bone .
the large ,  irregular bone located at the base and side of the skull ;  consists of three parts at birth: squamous ,  tympanic ,  and petrous
a bone in the skull that separates the nasal cavity from the brain .
the irregularly thin plate that forms part of the medial wall of the orbit behind the frontal process of the maxilla
one of two small oblong bones ,  varying in size and form in different individuals ;  they are placed side by side at the middle and upper part of the face ,  and form ,  by their junction ,  'the bridge' of the nose [ wp ]  .
a paired dermal bone situated in the mid - palate [ palaeos ]  .
the quadrilateral bone that forms the prominence of the cheek
a dentary bone that is the only bone in one of the lateral halves of the lower jaw skeleton .
a horseshoe shaped bone situated in the anterior midline of the neck between the chin and the thyroid cartilage .
one of 3 small bones contained within the middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid - filled labyrinth .
the stapes or stirrup is the stirrup - shaped small bone or ossicle in the middle ear which is attached to the incus laterally and to the fenestra ovalis ,  the 'oval window' medially .
the incus or anvil is the anvil - shaped small bone or ossicle in the middle ear .
the malleus or hammer is a hammer - shaped small bone or ossicle of the middle ear which connects with the incus and is attached to the inner surface of the eardrum .
sense organ in vertebrates that is specialized for the detection of sound ,  and the maintenance of balance .
part of the ear external to the tympanum  ( eardrum )  .
one of the bones of the occiput ,  the part of the skull which articulates with the spine .
paired cartilage bone that bears a large foramen  ( lateral occipital foramen )  .
the petrous portion of the temporal bone or pyramid is pyramidal and is wedged in at the base of the skull between the sphenoid and occipital bones .
a bone which is fused with the temporal bone in many mammals and forms part of the cheek region articulating with quadrate and pterygoid in other vertebrates .
subdivision of skeleton that is an anterolateral part of the cranium and structurally supports the eye .
one of the larger of the several holes at the base of the skull that transmit nerves through the skull .
the nervus intermedius ,  or intermediate nerve ,  is the part of the facial nerve  ( cranial nerve vii )  located between the motor component of the facial nerve and the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cranial nerve viii )  .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the facial nerve  ( seventh cranial nerve ) 
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the ninth cranial nerve .
any of the hairs that grow at the edge of the upper or lower eyelid .
subdivision of skeletal system that surrounds and protects the brain .
a horn - like keratin structure covering the dorsal aspect of the terminal phalanges of fingers and toes [ wp ]  .
the nasal septum separates the left and right airways in the nose ,  dividing the two nostrils .
an anatomical cavity that is part of the olfactory apparatus .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the upper jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
a fold of skin that covers and protects part of the eyeball .
the groups of nerve cell bodies associated with the twelve cranial nerves
nuclear complex containing subnuclei that give rise to the axons of the occulomotor nerve ,  both motor and parasympathetic fibers ,  situated at the midline at the level of the superior colliculus in the midbrain tegmentum  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 533 - 534 )  .
the part of the palate formed from the fusion of the two palatine shelves ,  extensions of the maxillary prominences .
nucleus extending from the upper spinal cord through the pontine tegmentum that receives sensory inputs from the trigeminal nerve .
elongated nucleus located in the midbrain tegmentum that receives proprioceptive input from both teh extraocular and the masticatory muscles .
a region of histologically disparate cells located just dorsal to the inferior olivary nucleus in the lateral portion of the upper medulla .
any of the nuclei of the cochlear nuclear complex .
the inferior vestibular nucleus is the vestibular nucleus which lies near the fourth ventricle .
the medial vestibular nucleus is one of the vestibular nuclei .
a muscular organ in the floor of the mouth .
one of the paired paranasal sinuses ,  located in the body of the sphenoid bone and communicating with the highest meatus of the nasal cavity on the same side [ mesh ]  .
the cartilaginous joints of the skull ;  these include sphenoethmoidal synchondrosis ,  sphenooccipital synchondrosis ,  sphenopetrosal synchondrosis ,  petrooccipital synchondrosis ,  anterior intraoccipital synchondrosis and posterior intraoccipital synchondrosis .
a specialized receptor organ that is a collection of cells spanning the gustatory epithelium .
the section of the pharynx that lies above the soft palate
the portion of the pharynx that lies between the soft palate and the upper edge of the epiglottis
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pharynx .
the lymph tissue in the roof and posterior wall of the nasopharynx
the muscular ,  non - bony arch - shaped posterior portion of the palate extending from the posterior edge of the hard palate .
conic projection from the posterior edge of the middle of the soft palate ,  composed of connective tissue containing a number of racemose glands ,  and some muscular fibers .
the circular lymphoid tissue formed by the lingual ,  pharyngeal ,  and facial tonsils
either of the paired compound tubuloalveolar  ( aka tubuloacinar )  major salivary glands composed of both serous and mucous secretory cells and situated beneath the mandible .
a continuation of the pharynx that is involved in breathing ,  sound production ,  and protecting the trachea against food aspiration .
the largest of the laryngeal cartilages
the cartilaginous structures that support the larynx .
the paired triangular laryngeal cartilages located postlaterally at the level of the thyroid cartilage
the corniculate cartilages  ( cartilages of santorini )  are two small conical nodules consisting of yellow elastic cartilage ,  which articulate with the summits of the arytenoid cartilages and serve to prolong them posteriorly and medially .
the most superior of the laryngeal cartilages ,  which is found at the root of the tongue and folds back over the entrance to the larynx during swallowing .
a ligament that is part of a larynx and connexts the cartilages of the larynx
portion of connective tissue with various types of white blood cells enmeshed in it ,  most numerous being the lymphocytes [ wp ]  .
a lymphoid follicle that contains a germinal center .
a parenchyma that is part of a thyroid follicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense and irregular connective tissue capsule surrounding a parathyroid gland .
a parenchyma that is part of a parathyroid gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a network of orbital structures of the eye that secrete and drain tears from the surface of the eyeball into the nasal cavity ;  these parts include the lacrimal glands ,  lacrimal lake ,  lacrimal ducts ,  lacrimal canals ,  lacrimal sacs ,  nasolacrimal ducts ,  and lacrimal puncta .
collagen - rich odontogenic tissue characteristic of teeth and tooth - like skeletal elements  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  ;  mature dentine is mineralized and develops from predentine tissue ;  often  ( but not always )  tubular and acellular .
a dentine - like hypermineralized substance that covers the tooth tip .
odontoid tissue that is deposited by cementoblasts onto dentine tissue and functions to attach teeth ,  odontodes and other odontogenic derivatives to bone tissue and the integument .
the part in the center of a tooth made up of living soft tissue and cells called odontoblasts [ wp ]  .
a segment in the hyoidean arch between the epihyal and tympanohyal [ biology - online ]  .
the middle ear is the air - filled cavity within the skull of vertebrates that lies between the outer ear and the inner ear .
the part of the ear that projects from the head ,  connecting to the external acoustic meatus .
the tissues that invest or help to invest and support the teeth ,  including the periodontal ligament ,  gingivae ,  cementum ,  and alveolar and supporting bone [ bto ]  .
cranial nerve that branches into the lateral  ( to body sense organs )  and the intestino - accessorial  ( to the skin ,  muscles of shoulder ,  hyoid ,  larynx ,  gut ,  lungs ,  and heart )  .
the frontal sinus occupies the dorsal part of the skull medial to the orbit .
a thickened and indented region in the midline in the floor of the rostral part of the pharyngeal region of the foregut ,  located between the second and third branchial arches that is the first indication of the thyroid primordium .
the small curved bones that extends horizontally along the lateral wall of the nasal passage
a condensation of odontoblasts that forms the part of a tooth germ that gives rise to dentin and pulp in the mature tooth .
one of the paired paranasal sinuses ,  located in the body of the maxilla ,  communicating with the middle meatus of the nasal cavity .
epithelial tube that transports milk [ go ]  .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the ring - like space ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  between the iris / pupil anteriorly and the lens and ciliary body posteriorly
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the part of the lacrimal duct that connects the lacrimal punctum to the lacrimal sac .
the central circular aperture of the iris through which light rays enter the eye
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
opaque fibrous outer layer of the eyeball [ zfa , kardong , wp ]  .
a skeletal muscle organ that is part of the trunk region .
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
vascular layer containing connective tissue ,  of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
the lamellated connective tissue of the cornea between the bowman and descemet membranes
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
the delicate vascular connective tissue that lies between the anterior surface of the iris and the pars iridica retinae .
the any of the paired peripheral nerves formed by the union of the dorsal and ventral spinal roots from each spinal cord segment [ mp , modified ] 
any of the layers that make up the retina [ mp ]  .
a monolayer of pigmented epithelium covering the neural retina ;  develops from the outer of the two layers of the optic cup [ zfa ]  .
the optic disc or optic nerve head is the location where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve .
cranial nerves are nerves that emerge directly from the brain ,  in contrast to spinal nerves ,  which emerge from segments of the spinal cord .
a depression in the inner retinal surface within the macula lutea ,  the photoreceptor layer of which is entirely cones and which is specialized for maximum visual acuity
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell receptor segments reside .
the row of jucntional complexes between the plasma membranes of rod segments and the muller glia cells ;  this barrier separates the layer of inner and outer segments of the rods and cones from the outer nuclear layer and forms a blood - retina barrier [ mp ]  .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell bodies reside .
the layer within the retina where the bipolar cells synapse with the photoreceptor cells [ zfa ]  .
cytoarchitectural layer of retina containing closely packed cell bodies ,  the majority of which are bipolar cells  ( adapted from wikipedia )  .
cytoarchitectural layer of retina that contains somata of retinal ganglion cells ,  bounded by the stratum opticum and the inner plexiform layer
layer of the retina formed by expansion of the fibers of the optic nerve
the row of fused muller cell processes and astrocytes that separates the retinal nerve fiber layer from the vitreous [ mp ]  .
cytoarchitectural layer of the retina that is made up of a dense reticulum of fibrils formed by interlaced dendrites of retinal ganglion cells and cells of the inner nuclear layer  ( adapted from wikipedia ) 
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
a transparent ,  semigelatinous substance that fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina
gelatinous mucoid tissue that is composed of vitreous humor and fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina [ mp , modified ] 
the chamber in the eyeball enclosing the vitreous humor ,  bounded anteriorly by the lens and ciliary body and posteriorly by the posterior wall of the eyeball [ bto , modified ]  .
the clusters of neurons in the somatic peripheral nervous system which contain the cell bodies of sensory nerve axons ,  interneurons and non - neuronal supporting cells .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is outer most layer of the lens
ganglion that has dendrites that form a junction between autonomic nerves originating from the central nervous system and autonomic nerves innervating their target organs in the periphery .
a ganglion of the sympathetic nervous system .
trunk ganglion which is part of a bilaterally paired set of sympathetic ganglia located anterior and lateral to the spinal cord .
ganglion containing neurons that receive innervation from parasympathetic neurons in the central nervous system and subserves parasympathetic functions through innervation of smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands .
anatomical junction where subdivisions of two or more neural trees interconnect with one another to form a network through which nerve fibers of the constituent nerve trees become regrouped ;  together with other nerve plexuses ,  nerves and ganglia ,  it constitutes the peripheral nervous system .
the mucous membrane that lines the inner surface of the eyelids and the front of the eyeball
a thin transparent mucous membrane that covers the posterior surface of the eyelids and is continuous with the bulbar conjunctiva at the conjunctival fornicies .
an intermingling of fiber fascicles from adjacent spinal nerves to form a network .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine where it proceeds through the neck then the axilla and into the arm where it innervates skin and muscle .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine that travels to the pelvic appendage where it innervates skin and muscle .
a nerve plexus that is part of an autonomic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lacrimal glands are paired almond - shaped glands ,  located in or near the orbital region ,  that secrete the aqueous layer of the tear film .
a modified lobulated sebaceous gland at the rim of an eyelid ,  responsible for the supply of meibum .
orifice separating upper and lower eyelids .
any of the coil glands of the skin that secrete sweat
a holocrine gland that secretes sebum into the hair follicles ,  or in hairless areas into ducts .
a membranous sheet that acts as the anterior boundary of the orbit .
one of the cartilage structures in the nose that provide form and support [ wp ]  .
the mucous lining of the larynx ,  which is composed of squamous epithelium in the upper larynx and ciliated columnar epithelium in the lower larynx .
the paired air - filled cavities surrounded by the bones of the face that are lined by mucous membranes and are continuous with the nasal cavity
the mucous membrane that lines the nasal cavity [ mp ]  .
aqueous substance secreted by the lacrimal gland .
the fibrous investing tissue ,  covered by keratinized epithelium ,  that immediately surrounds a tooth and is contiguous with its periodontal ligament and with the mucosal tissues of the mouth [ glossary of periodontal terms 2001 ]  .
one of the three largest glands of the oral cavity that secrete most of the saliva ,  including the parotid ,  submandibular ,  and sublingual glands .
one of the smaller ,  largely mucus - secreting ,  exocrine glands of the oral cavity ,  consisting of the labial ,  buccal ,  molar ,  lingual ,  and palatine glands [ mp ]  .
the parotid gland is the largest of the salivary glands .
the small mucin - producing salivary glands in the floor of the mouth beneath the tongue ,  anterior to the submandibular gland
one of the two fleshy folds which surround the opening of the mouth .
lip that covers the upper portion of the mouth .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
a fluid produced in the oral cavity by salivary glands ,  typically used in predigestion ,  but also in other functions .
the duct of a salivary gland .
a duct of a sublingual gland .
a system of fluid passages in the inner ear ,  including both the cochlea ,  which is part of the auditory system ,  and the vestibular system ,  which provides the sense of balance .
one of three half - circular ,  interconnected tubes located inside each ear [ wp ]  .
the posterior semicircular canal is a part of the vestibular system and detects rotations of the head in the sagittal plane .
the spiral - shaped bony canal in the inner ear containing the hair cells that transduce sound .
transudate contained in the osseous labyrinth outside the membranous labyrinth .
complex labyrinthine structure that comprises sensory endorgans specialized for vestibular ,  auditory ,  and acoustico - vestibular sensation .
the soft lower part of the external ear ,  projecting below the antitragus .
cartilage of the pinna and much of the external ear canal .
organ with organ cavity which consists of the vestibular labyrinth and the cochlear labyrinth .
a collection of channels that connects the conjunctival sac with the nasal cavity ,  encompassing the lacrimal ducts ,  the lacrimal sac and the naso - lacrimal duct .
outermost layer of an organ [ wp ]  .
transudate contained within the membranous labyrinth .
the larger of the two otolith organs in the vestibule
the smaller of the two otolith organs in the vestibule
an endolymph filled cavity inside the cochlea ,  located in between the scala tympani and the scala vestibuli ,  separated by the basilar membrane and reissner's membrane  ( the vestibular membrane )  respectively .
any of the three loop - shaped membranous inner tubular parts of the semicircular canals that are about one - fourth the diameter of the corresponding outer bony canals ,  that communicate at each end with the utricle ,  and that have near one end an expanded ampulla containing an area of sensory epithelium
the semicircular canals are three half - circular ,  interconnected tubes located inside each ear .
the small membranous canal ,  connecting with both saccule and utricle of the membranous labyrinth ,  passing through the aqueduct of vestibule ,  and terminating in the endolymphatic sac
the canalis reuniens of hansen is part of the human inner ear .
the part of the membranous labyrinth that includes the utricle and saccule lodged within the vestibule and the semicircular ducts lodged eccentrically in the corresponding canals .
the division of the spiral canal of the cochlea lying on the apical side of the spiral lamina and vestibular membrane
the division of the spiral canal of the cochlea lying on the basal side of the spiral lamina
fatty lubricant matter secreted by sebaceous glands ,  and made of made of triglyceride oils ,  wax ,  squalene ,  and metabolytes of fat - producing cells [ bto , wp ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of two bilateral ,  largely symmetrical organ subdivisions within the telencephalon which contain the cerebral cortex and cerebral white matter .
anterior portion of the neocortex ,  lying anterior to the central sulcus in humans .
lower lateral part of the cerebral hemisphere .
upper central part of the cerebral hemisphere .
subcortical nucleus of telecephalic origin consisting of an elongated gray mass lying lateral to and bordering the lateral ventricle .
subcortical nucleus of telencephalic  ,  which together with the caudate nucleus ,  forms the striatum .
subcortical nucleus ,  functionally part of the basal ganglia ,  which consists of two segments the external  ( or lateral )  and internal  ( or medial )  separated by the medial medullary lamina in primates .
subcortical brain region lying anterior to the hippocampal formation in the temporal lobe and anterior to the temporal horn of the lateral ventricle in some species .
cells lying generally in front of regional_part_of_septal_nuclei ,  lying ventral to and slightly medial to the lateral septal nucleus .
a brain structure that is part of the septal nuclear complex .
a brain structure in the forebrain wrapped around the stria terminalis .
one of the seven small groups of granule cells in the polymorph layer of the olfactory tubercle and one large group ,  the insula magna ,  which lies along the border between septum ,  nucleus accumbens and nucleus of the diagonal band .
a region of the brain consisting of a collection of neurons located in the forebrain ventral to the caudate and putamen .
region in the ventral telencephalon ,  prominent in rodents ,  but present in all mammals ,  consisting of a laminated cortical part and the cap / hilus region .
a nerve that arises from the caudal cervical nerves and is primarily the motor nerve of the diaphragm but also sends sensory fibers to the pericardium .
part of the hippocampal formation forming a 'v' or 'u' shaped structure with the opening bounded by hippocampal area ca3 .
a network formed by blood vessels and the tela choroidea which secretes csf into the ventricular spaces .
white matter regional part of brain which is flanked by nuclear masses ,  consisting of both afferent and efferent fibers projecting between the cerebral cortex and the brainstem and spinal cord .
white matter tract that contains projections from the olfactory bulb to the olfactory cortex  ( maryann martone )  .
the most anterior region the brain including both the telencephalon and diencephalon .
the midbrain is the middle division of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain  ( in vertebrates ,  includes a ventral part containing the cerebral peduncles and a dorsal tectum containing the corpora quadrigemina and that surrounds the aqueduct of sylvius connecting the third and fourth ventricles )  [ go ]  .
a segment of the developing hindbrain [ zfa ]  .
part of the forebrain consisting of paired olfactory bulbs and cerebral hemispheres .
the division of the forebrain that develops from the foremost primary cerebral vesicle .
rostral segment of the hindbrain that has as its parts the pons  ( where present )  and the cerebellum [ wp , modified ]  .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
subcortical brain region consisting of paired gray matter bodies in the dorsal diencephalon and forming part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle of the brain .
a specialized brain region of the ventral diencephalon arising near the end of the segmentation period ;  the embryonic hypothalamic region will give rise to the posterior pituitary gland as well as a number of brain nuclei .
most dorsal part of the thalamus ,  comprising the pineal gland and habenular nuclei in most vertebrates .
anterior part of the diencephalon that lies between the dorsal thalamus ,  hypothalamus ,  and tegmentum of the mesencephalon ,  including subthalamic nucleus ,  zona incerta ,  the fields of forel ,  and the nucleus of ansa lenticularis [ go ,  modified ]  .
the epithelial lining of the trachea which contains numerous ciliated cells
an epithelium that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thalamic reticular nucleus is part of the ventral thalamus that forms a capsule around the thalamus laterally .
a segment of the epithalamus that has as its parts the habenular nuclei and the habenular commissure [ fma , modified ]  .
a midline ,  cone like structure located in the dorso - caudal roof of the 3rd ventricle ,  attached by peduncles to the habenular and posterior commissures .
the subthalamic nucleus is the lens - shaped nucleus located in the ventral part of the subthalamus on the inner aspect of the internal capsule that is concerned with the integration of somatic motor function [ go ]  .
the zona incerta is a horizontally elongated region of gray matter cells in the subthalamus below the thalamus .
diencephalic white matter  ( tract )  which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons after which they have passed through the optic chiasm [ zfa ]  .
a brain commissure that is situated in front of the pineal gland and connects the habenular nucleus on one side of the diencephalon with that on the other side .
the medial forebrain bundle  ( mfb )  ,  is a complex bundle of axons coming from the basal olfactory regions ,  the periamygdaloid region ,  and the septal nuclei ,  and passing to the lateral hypothalamus ,  with some carrying on into the tegmentum .
a specialized accessory gland of the skin of mammals that secretes milk .
organ component of the mammary gland which consists of an aggregate of mammary alveoli that communicate with a lobular lactiferous duct .
an emulsion of fat globules within a fluid that is secreted by the mammary gland during lactation .
the thin ,  yellow ,  serous fluid secreted by the mammary glands during pregnancy and immediately postpartum before lactation begins .
an endothelium that is part of a capillary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vein  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the nucleus paraventricularis anterior thalami and nuclues paraventricularis posterior thalami ,  two of the nuclei mediani thalami ;  they are situated on the dorsomedial wall of the thalamus ,  juxtaposed to the third ventricle .
a small cell group in the interthalamic adhesion of the thalamus that occupy the midline region of the internal medullary lamina ,  between the left and right paracentral nuclei .
one of the intralaminar nuclei of the thalamus ,  located medial to the central lateral nucleus .
the ventral lateral nucleus  ( vl )  is a nucleus of the thalamus .
the group of neurons that serve as the primary processor of visual information received from the retina via the optic tract and send processed information to the visual cortex of the occipital lobe
nuclear complex of the thalamus situated on the caudal ,  subpial aspect of the thalamus  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 622 )  .
area of the forebrain between the anterior commissure and optic chiasm .
the supraoptic nucleus  ( son )  is a nucleus of magnocellular neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamus of the mammalian brain .
nucleus in the anterior part of the hypothalamus .
the lateral preoptic nucleus is lateral to the medial preoptic nucleus .
the arcuate nucleus  ( or infundibular nucleus )  is an aggregation of neurons in the mediobasal hypothalamus ,  adjacent to the third ventricle and the median eminence .
the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus is a nucleus of the hypothalamus .
the ventromedial nucleus  ( sometimes referred to as the ventromedial hypothalamus )  is a nucleus of the hypothalamus .
the tuberomammillary nucleus is a subnucleus of the posterior third of the hypothalamus .
the lateral hypothalamus or lateral hypothalamic area is a part of the hypothalamus .
the habenular nuclei comprise a small group of nuclei that are part of the epithalamus of the diencephalon ,  situated at the posterior end of the thalamus ,  on its upper surface .
ventral part of the midbrain ,  separated from the hindbrain by the isthmus [ isbn:0471888893 ]  .
nuclear complex between dorsal thalamus and optic tectum whose nuclei receive afferents primarily from the retina and the optic tectum and are involved in modulating motor behavior in response to visual input .
part of the midbrain tecturm consisting of paired bodies that sit caudal to the thalamus and surround the pineal gland in the mesencephalon of vertebrate brains .
part of the midbrain tectum ,  consisting of paired predominantly gray matter elevations on the dorsal aspect of the midbrain ,  located caudal to the superior colliculus ,  dorsal to the periaqueductal gray of the cerebral aqueduct and rostral to the cerebellum .
large round nucleus located in the midbrain tegmentum ,  consisting of a magnocellular and parvicellular portion in most species studied .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord .
a stratified squamous epithelium consisting of a basal layer ;  it is keratinized or parakeratinized [ bto ]  .
an area of cerebral cortex defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture that have six layers .
an epithelium that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a oropharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a modified six - layered cortex between the subiculum and the main part of the parahippocampal gyrus .
a part of the brain consisting of a three layered cortex located in the forebrain bordering the medial surface of the lateral ventricle .
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the hyaline cartilaginous structures that support the bronchi ,  present as irregular rings in the larger bronchi  ( and not as regular as in the trachea )  ,  and as small plates and islands in the smaller bronchi ;  as the branching continues through the bronchial tree ,  the amount of hyaline cartilage in the walls decreases until it is absent in the smallest bronchioles [ mp ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines a terminal bronchiole .
the parenchymatous tissue of the spleen that surrounds splenic blood vessels ,  consists of compact masses of lymphatic cells and is where foreign material removed from the blood is used to initiate an immune reaction that results in the production of antibodies
the area of the spleen in which t cells surround the central arteriole
diffuse system of small concentrations of lymphoid tissue found in various sites of the body such as the gastrointestinal tract ,  thyroid ,  breast ,  lung ,  salivary glands ,  eye ,  and skin [ wp ]  .
mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue in digestive tract .
a diffuse collection of lymphpoid cells that participate in airway immune responses
a thoracic nerve that nerve travels into the abdomen ,  where its fibers synapse in the renal ganglia .
regional part of substantia nigra consisting of a densely packed region of cells ,  more or less dorsal to the pars reticulata ,  but extending into the pars reticulata in some species .
regional part of substantia nigra consisting of loosely packed cells ,  generally located ventral and lateral to the pars compacta .
a thin extracellular layer that sometimes lies below the basal lamina ,  is composed chiefly of collagenous fibers ,  and serves to anchor the basal lamina to underlying connective tissue .
organism substance that is composed of sperm cells suspended in seminal fluid .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
vital aqueous secretion of the liver that is formed by hepatocytes and modified down stream by absorptive and secretory properties of the bile duct epithelium .
a submucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial layer that lines the luminal space of the esophagus
the portion of blood plasma that excludes clotting factors .
one of the minute vessels that collect deoxygenated blood from the capillary plexuses returns it to the veins
the smallest division of the artery located between the muscular arteries and the capillaries [ go ]  .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
the tubular intestinal glands found in the mucosal membranes
a crypt of lieberkuhn that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a monolayer of specialized ,  flattened ,  mitochondria - rich cells that lines the posterior surface of the cornea and faces the anterior chamber of the eye [ wp ]  .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin [ go ]  .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
trunk ganglion which is bilaterally paired and located at the anterior end of the sympathetic ganglion chain .
the small ganglion located at the level of the cricoid cartilage of the laryngeal wall
the cervical ganglia are paravertebral ganglia of the sympathetic nervous system .
the upper layer of the dermis beneath the epidermis ,  composed of dense irregular connective tissue [ ncit , modified ]  .
the thicker ,  deeper layer of the dermis ,  comprised of criss - crossing collagen fibers that form a strong elastic network and also containing blood and lymph vessels ,  nerves and nerve endings ,  and hair follicles
cartilage tissue primarily composed of type ii collagen  ( thin fibrils )  and a glassy appearance .
cartilage tissue intermediate between hyaline cartilage and dense connective tissue ;  contains of abundant collagen fibers ;  chondrocytes often arranged in columns .
cartilage tissue that is flexible and contains abundant elastic fibers .
a sensory epithelium inside the nasal cavity that is responsible for detecting odors [ wp ]  .
arthrodial joints ,  with the exception of the first ,  in which the cartilage is directly united with the sternum ,  and which is ,  therefore ,  a synarthrodial articulation .
anatomical cluster consisting of the iliacus and the psoas major [ wp ]  .
on of the muscles that make up the buttocks: the gluteus maximus muscle ,  gluteus medius muscle and gluteus minimus muscle .
any joint that connects a rib to another structure  ( or another rib )  .
interchondral articulations  ( articulations of the cartilages of the ribs with each other )  .
a cable - like bundle of peripheral axons  ( the long ,  slender projections of neurons )  .
the enteric nervous system is composed of two ganglionated neural plexuses in the gut wall which form one of the three major divisions of the autonomic nervous system .
peripheral portion of the lymph node ,  underneath the capsule [ wp ]  .
the mdeullary portion of the lymph node ,  which contains large blood vessels ,  sinuses and medullary cords that contain antibody - secreting plasma cells .
a plexus of nerves situated at the base of the heart that innervate the heart .
the pulmonary plexus is an autonomic plexus formed from pulmonary branches of vagus nerve and the sympathetic trunk that supplies the bronchial tree .
a complex network of nerves located in the abdomen behind the stomach .
the thoracodorsal artery is a branch of the subscapular artery .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
the superior hypogastric plexus  ( in older texts ,  hypogastric plexus or presacral nerve )  is a plexus of nerves situated on the vertebral bodies below the bifurcation of the aorta .
the inferior hypogastric plexus  ( pelvic plexus in some texts )  is a plexus of nerves that supplies the viscera of the pelvic cavity .
the tough fibrous layer surrounding the kidney which is covered in a thick layer of perirenal adipose tissue that functions to provide some protection from trauma and damage
pulmonary veins are blood vessels that transport blood from the lungs to the heart [ go ]  .
a vein that conducts blood from the digestive organs ,  spleen ,  pancreas ,  and gallbladder to the liver [ bto ]  .
soft tissue that lines the non - cartilaginous surfaces within joints with cavities  ( synovial joints )  .
a cranial nerve that originates from neurons in the medulla and in the cervical spinal cord .
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
posterior part of the cerebral hemisphere  ( msh ) 
gray matter of the insular region of the neocortex .
one of the four basal ganglia in each cerebral hemisphere that consists of a thin lamina of gray matter between the lentiform nucleus and the insula [ bto ]  .
the internal carotid plexus  ( carotid plexus )  is situated on the lateral side of the internal carotid artery ,  and in the plexus there occasionally exists a small gangliform swelling ,  the carotid ganglion ,  on the under surface of the artery .
the deepest layer of the epidermis ,  which is composed of dividing stem cells and anchoring cells
the layer of polyhedral cells in the epidermis found between the stratum granulosum and stratum basale ;  shrinkage and adhesion of these cells gives a spiny or prickly appearance
the outer layer of the epidermis ,  consisting of several layers of flat keratinized non - nucleated cells
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
the simple columnar epithelial lining of the gall bladder .
projection of skin containing the outlets for 15 - 20 lactiferous ducts arranged cylindrically around the tip .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
subdivision of breast which consists of skin ,  connective tissue and smooth muscle bundle and modified sebaceous glands and which surrounds the nipple .
a tiny smooth muscle that connects the hair follicle with the dermis .
* an ovoid densely packed collection of small cells of the anterior hypothalamus lying close to the midline in a shallow impression of the optic chiasm .
the medial preoptic nucleus is bounded laterally by the lateral preoptic nucleus ,  and medially by the preoptic periventricular nucleus .
muscle tissue that contains fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations .
part of the metencephalon that lies in the posterior cranial fossa behind the brain stem .
predominantly gray matter midbrain structure lying dorsal to the crus cerebri and ventral to the midbrain tegmentum .
the inferior phrenic veins drain the diaphragm and follow the course of the inferior phrenic arteries ;  the right ends in the inferior vena cava ;  the left is often represented by two branches ,  one of which ends in the left renal or suprarenal vein ,  while the other passes in front of the esophageal hiatus in the diaphragm and opens into the inferior vena cava .
a systemic artery that supplies the lung with with oxygenated blood .
an endothelium that is part of a lymphatic vessel  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a large raphe nucleus extending from the anterior part of the pons through the mesencephalon ;  its neurons are serotoninergic [ nif ]  .
one of the dorsal column nuclei ,  the cuneate nucleus is a wedge - shaped nucleus in the closed part of the medulla oblongata .
a two - lobed endocrine gland found in all vertebrates ,  located in front of and on either side of the trachea in humans ,  and producing various hormones ,  such as triiodothyronine and calcitonin [ bto ]  .
the pontine raphe nucleus is one of the raphe nuclei .
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thick capsule of dense irregular connective tissue that surrounds each adrenal gland and contains scattered elastic fibers ;  the capsule contains a rich plexus of blood vessels  ( mainly small arteries )  and numerous nerve fibers ;  some blood vessels and nerves enter the substance of the gland in the trabeculae that extend inward from the capsule and then leave the trabeculae to enter the cortex .
the narrow subcapsular outer zone of the adrenal cortex where aldosterone is produced
the wide middle zone of the adrenal cortex that produces cortisol  ( hydrocortisone ) 
the inner zone of the adrenal cortex that produces the enzymes that convert pregnenolone ,  a 21 - carbon steroid ,  to 19 - carbon steroids
each renal artery gives off some small inferior suprarenal branches to the suprarenal gland ,  the ureter ,  and the surrounding cellular tissue and muscles .
an artery that supplies the diaphragm
a parasympathetic ganglion located in the posterior orbit that contains preganglionic nerves and postganglionic neurons of the oculomotor nerve ,  connects to the edinger - westphal nucleus via the oculomotor nerve and the eye muscles via the short ciliary nerve .
the ganglion associated with the lingual nerve that provides postsynaptic fibers to the submandibular and sublingual glands
the femoral artery is a large artery in the muscles of the thigh .
the truncus arteriosus and bulbus cordis are divided by the aorticopulmonary septum .
the endocardial cushion is a specialized region of mesenchymal cells that will give rise to the heart septa and valves [ go ]  .
the sinus venosus is a large cardiac chamber at the inflow tract that receives venous blood from systemic circulation .
either of a pair of large transverse venous sinuses that conduct blood from the cardinal veins to the sinus venosus of the vertebrate embryo [ bto ]  .
one of two paired cardinal veins that return blood from the body of the embryo [ kardong ] 
the umbilical vein is a blood vessel present during fetal development that carries oxygenated blood from the placenta to the growing fetus .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
a fibrous remnant of the allantoic stalk ,  a narrow fetal canal connecting the apex of the urinary bladder with the umbilicus located in the space of retzius ,  between the transversalis fascia anteriorly and the peritoneum posteriorly .
the layer of flattened cells containing basophilic granules of keratohyalin and lying just above the stratum spinosum  ( spiny layer )  of the epidermis
the superior pancreaticoduodenal artery is an artery that supplies blood to the duodenum and pancreas .
the layer of lightly staining corneocytes found between the stratum granulosum and stratum corneum layers ;  found primarily in the thick epidermis of the palmar and plantar skin and is composed of three to five layers of dead ,  flattened keratinocytes .
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
a tube - like opening in the epidermis where the hair shaft develops and into which the sebaceous glands open [ go ]  .
the main part of the hair which is composed of trichocytes and is divided into the cortex and medulla .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
smooth and glossy outer protective cell layer of hair shaft
a cortex that is part of a hair  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the right side of the heart .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
cardiac chamber through which blood leaves the heart .
the vascular channel in the fetus passing through the liver and joining the umbilical vein with the inferior vena cava .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac septum that divides the left and right atria of the heart .
a valve at the opening of the sinus venosus into the primordial atrium [ tfd , modified ] 
the part of the heart connecting the atrium to the cardiac ventricle [ zfa ]  .
the lateral thoracic vein is a tributary of the axillary vein .
companion vein of the thoracodorsal artery ,  draining the apical part of the latissimus dorsi and merging with the circumflex scapular vein to form a subscapular vein
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton which which consists of all the skeletal elements in in the pectoral and pelvic appendage complexes [ cjm ]  .
the fibrous membrane forming the outer of the three coverings that surrounds the brain within the cranial cavity ;  consists of two layers including the periosteal layer and the meningeal layer .
a dura mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
anatomical organ component composed of a double layer of serous membrane that suspends a viscus from the body wall or connects adjacent viscera and in doing so conveys blood vessels ,  lymphatics and nerves to and from the viscera .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the apex of the heart is the lowest superficial part of the heart .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
a paired appendage that is evolved from a paired fin .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pectoral girdle .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pelvic girdle region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
sensory system responsible for the perception of spatial orientation and auditory stimuli .
the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
subdivision of digestive tract that connects the stomach to the large intestine and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place  ( with the exception of ruminants )  .
pair of nostrils .
an organ that aids digestion and stores bile produced by the liver [ wp ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a paired organ of the urinary tract which has the production of urine as its primary function .
the first part of the small intestine .
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon
an ovary that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ovary that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
in mammals ,  the pronephros is the first of the three embryonic kidneys to be established and exists only transiently .
the fibrous connective tissue surrounding the thymus .
the outer part of a thymus lobule that surrounds the medulla and is composed of closely packed lymphocytes
medullary portion of thymus .the reticulum is coarser than in the cortex ,  the lymphoid cells are relatively fewer in number ,  and there are found peculiar nest - like bodies ,  the concentric corpuscles of hassall .
a lobule that is part of a thymus .
the solitary tract and nucleus are structures in the brainstem that carry and receive visceral sensation and taste from the facial  ( vii )  ,  glossopharyngeal  ( ix )  and vagus  ( x )  cranial nerves .
largest nucleus situated in the olivary body ,  part of the medulla oblongata .
a a collection of brainstem nuclei that functions in multiple aspects of hearing and is an important component of the ascending and descending auditory pathways of the auditory system .
the superficial gray matter of the cerebellum .
the gray matter nuclei located in the center of the cerebellum ,  embedded in the white matter ,  which receive inhibitory  ( gabaergic )  inputs from purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex and excitatory  ( glutamatergic )  inputs from mossy fiber pathways ;  all output fibers of the cerebellum originate from the these nuclei [ mp ] 
the region of the cerebellum that is anterior to the primary fissure
the largest and most lateral of the deep cerebellum nuclei ;  it receives axons of purkinje cells in the lateral cerebellar hemisphere  ( neocerebellum )  and receives its afferents from the premotor cortex and the supplementary motor cortex through the pontocerebellar system ,  and its efferents project through the superior cerebellar peduncle and is a major source of its fibers
a cardial valve in the atrioventricular region that separates the atrium from the ventricle and prevent backflow from the ventricles into the atria during systole .
an atrioventricular valve that is part of the outflow part of the right atrium .
an atrioventricular valve that is part of the outflow part of the left atrium .
layer of the dentate gyrus lying deep to the granule cell layer ,  within the opening of the c or v formed by the granule cell layer characterized by loosely packed polymorphic cells
cardiac valve which has as its parts the anterior ,  right posterior and left posterior cusps ,  attached to the fibrous ring of aortic valve .
white matter tract containing fibers projecting from the habenular nuclei to the interpeduncular nucleus  ( maryann martone ) 
the subcommissural organ is a circumventricular organ consisting of ependymal cells which secrete sco - spondin [ wp , partially vetted ]  .
cholinergic cell group that is located ventral to the brachium of the inferior colliculus  ( in rat )  and has reciprocal connectivity with the superior colliculus  ( adapted from paxinos ,  the rat central nervous system ,  2nd ed ,  1995 ,  pg 865
nucleus that is part of the oculomotor nerve complex consisting of preganglionic parasympathetic neurons situated close to the midline at the level of the superior colliculus  ( heimer ,  the human brain and spinal cord ,  1994 ,  pg 244 ) 
the pedunculopontine nucleus  ( ppn )   ( or pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus ,  pptn )  is located in the brainstem ,  caudal to the substantia nigra and adjacent to the superior cerebellar peduncle .
a group of neuron cell bodies that form a thin ,  caplike configuration over the dorsolateral aspect of the crus cerebri ;  many of its cells are acetylcholinesterase positive .
the semilunar valve of the heart that lies between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery .
the tegmental pontine reticular nucleus  ( or pontine reticular nucleus of the tegmentum )  is an area within the floor of the midbrain .
the locus ceruleus is a dense cluster of neurons within the dorsorostral pons .
nucleus containing parasympathetic neurons giving rise to the parasympathetic division of the facial nerve ,  innervating the salivary glands  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 703 )  .
a composite structure of the brain stem ,  which in neuronames is subdivided into the superior cerebellar peduncle of pons ,  the decussation of superior cerebellar peduncle and the superior cerebellar peduncle of midbrain  ( mm )  .
nuclei in the basal pons ,  intermingled among the descending axons from the cortex ,  that receive neocrotcial input and give rise to many axons that cross the midline to enter the contralateral cerebellum  ( butler and hodos ,  comparative vertebrate neuroanatomy ,  2nd ed . ,  2005 ,  pg 135 ) 
regional part of medullary white matter  ( according to neuronames )  primarily found at the level of the pons ,  consisting of a very large bundle of fibers originating in the pontine nuclei projecting to the cerebellum  ( mm )  .
the most medial of the cerebellar nuclei ;  it receives its afferent input from purkinje cells of the flocculonodular lobe and the vermis ,  and most of its efferent connections travel via the inferior cerebellar peduncle to the vestibular nuclei and to the medullary reticular formation
a nucleus of the lateral medullary nuclear complex .
nucleus located in the rostral ventrolateral medulla .
the nucleus raphe magnus ,  located directly rostral to the raphe obscurus ,  is afferently stimulated from axons in the spinal cord and cerebellum .
the nucleus raphe pallidus receives afferent connections from the periaqueductal gray ,  the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus ,  central nucleus of the amygdala ,  lateral hypothalamic area ,  and parvocellular reticular nucleus .
the inferior olivary nucleus that consists of the major laminar structure .
the inferior olivary nucleus that lies between the primary olivary nucleus and the pyramid ,  and forms a curved lamina ,  the concavity of which is directed laterally
nucleus in the caudal medulla that receive projections primarily from ipsilateral dorsal root ganglion cells via the posterior column of the spinal cord
a small ,  rounded eminence on each side of the fourth ventricle ,  which receives nerve fibers from the solitary nucleus  ,  spinal cord ,  and adjacent areas of the medulla .
regional part of medullary white matter  ( according to neuronames )  primarily found at the level of the open medulla ,  consisting of a large bundle of fibers projecting to and projecting from the cerebellum .
a long process of a cns neuron ,  that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body in the optic tectum towards target cells in the premotor reticulospinal system in the hindbrain .
the endocardium is an anatomical structure comprised of an endothelium and an extracellular matrix that forms the innermost layer of tissue of the heart ,  and lines the heart chambers [ go ]  .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
the small terminal dilation of the alveolar ducts around which the alveoli form pocket - like clusters
the lobe of the right lung that is closest to the head .
the lobe of the right lung that is furtherst from the head .
the respiratory conducting tubes distal to the respiratory bronchiole that lead to the alveolar sacs and the alveoli
in the human ,  the right lung is divided into three lobes  ( as opposed to two lobes on the left )  ,  superior ,  middle ,  and inferior ,  by two interlobular fissures:  [ wp , unvetted ]  .
the intermediolateral nucleus is a region of gray matter found in rexed lamina vii of the spinal column .
a diffusely arranged nucleus located in the dorsal portions of the lateral funiculus at about cervical levels c1 - c3 ;  synaptic station for the spinocervicothalamic tract .
the main bronchus on the right side .
the main bronchus on the left side .
the lateral mass of fibers on either side of the spinal cord ,  between the anterolateral and posterolateral sulci .
the white substance of the spinal cord lying on either side between the ventral median fissure and the ventral roots of the spinal nerves .
gelatinous - appearing material in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord ,  consisting chiefly of golgi type ii neurons and some larger nerve cells ,  corresponding to rexed lamina ii .
one of two branches of the trachea .
the lobar bronchus is the major airway within the respiratory tree that starts by division of the principal bronchi on both sides and ends at the point of its own subdivision into tertiary or segmental bronchi [ go ]  .
the tertiary bronchi  ( also known as the segmental bronchi )  arise from the secondary bronchi .
the upper conducting airways of the lung ;  these airways arise from the terminus of the trachea
the conducting airway of the lungs found terminal to the bronchi ;  these structures contain neither cartilage nor mucous - secreting glands ;  the epithelium of the bronchioles becomes thinner with each branching
the last conducting structure of non - respiratory bronchioles ;  after this point ,  the airways have alveoli in their walls
a bronchiole that is the first segment of the respiratory zone .
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
part of the hippocampal formation that is bounded by the entorhinal cortex and area ca1 .
the narrow cleft along the medial wall of the lateral ventricle along the margins of which the choroid plexus is attached ;  it lies between the upper surface of the thalamus and lateral edge of the fornix in the central part of the ventricle and between the terminal stria and fimbria hippocampi in the inferior horn [ zfa ]  .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
capsule surrounding lymph node composed of connective tissue with some plain muscle fibers .
membranous process coming from capsule of lymph node [ wp ]  .
the glandular ,  anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
elevation on the ventral surface of the brain located at the zone of attachment between the hypothalamic floor and the hypophysis  ( butler and hodos ,  comparative vertebrate neuroanatomy ,  2nd ed . ,  2005 ,  pg .
the posterior part of the pituitary gland that secretes hormones involved in blood pressure regulation such as oxytocin and antidiuretic hormon .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a trachea .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
the cranial most segment of the sternum .
one of two hemispherical bulges on the base of the posterior hypothalamus  ( butler and hodos ,  comparative vertebrate neuroanatomy ,  2nd ed . ,  2005 ,  pg 455 )  .
a cartilaginous extension to the distal part of the sternum .
one of the bony segments of the sternum [ tfd ]  .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments .
fibrous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the vertebral column and the limbs as well as articulating ossicles ,  are connected by skeletal ligaments or membranes .
a continuation of the neuron projection bundle component of a nerve inside ,  crossing or immediately outside the central nervous system .
the oval neuroepithelial sensory receptor in the anterior wall of the saccule ;  hair cells of the neuroepithelium support the statoconial membrane and have terminal arborizations of vestibular nerve fibers around their bodies
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by cartilage .
the neuroepithelial sensory receptor in the inferolateral wall of the utricle ;  hair cells of the neuroepithelium support the statoconial membrane and have terminal arborizations of vestibular nerve fibers around their bodies ;  normally sensitive to linear acceleration in the longitudinal axis of the body and to gravitational influences
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by hyaline cartilage .
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by fibrocartilage .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
a c - shaped membranous bone that provides physical support to the tympanic membrane .
group of neurons situated on the ventral surface of the fornix at the level of the foramen of monro in the third ventricle  ( adapted from wikipedia via nif )  .
anatomical structure that is a membranous gap between bones of the skull [ tao ]  .
fibrous connective tissue that surrounds cartilage .
from the posterior wall of the saccule a canal ,  the ductus endolymphaticus ,  is given off ;  this duct is joined by the ductus utriculosaccularis ,  and then passes along the aquaeductus vestibuli and ends in a blind pouch ,  the endolymphatic sac ,  on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ,  where it is in contact with the dura mater .
the part of the coelemic cavity lumen that is enclosed by the walls of the thorax .
the costal margin ,  sometimes referred to as the costal arch ,  is the medial margin formed by the false ribs ,  which in humans is from the eighth rib to the tenth rib .
a stiff structural element that separates two liquid - filled tubes that run along the coil of the cochlea ,  the scala media and the scala tympani [ wp ]  .
the organ of corti  ( or spiral organ )  is the organ in the inner ear of mammals that contains auditory sensory cells ,  or 'hair cells .'
an intersegmental rod - shaped bone that forms in the peritoneal membrane and attach to the vertebral parapophyses .
the bone of the cranium that lies above and anterior to the occipital bone in some mammals .
the head of the rib is the end of a rib closest to the vertebral column ,  with which it articulates with .
bowman's glands  ( aka olfactory glands ,  glands of bowman )  are situated in the olfactory mucosa ,  beneath the olfactory epithelium ,  in the lamina propria ,  a connective tissue also containing fibroblasts ,  blood vessels ,  and bundles of fine axons from the olfactory neurons .
the overlaying membrane of the cochlear duct ,  an extracellular matrix of the inner ear that contacts the stereocilia bundles of specialized sensory hair cells ;  sound induces movement of these hair cells relative to the tectorial membrane ,  deflects the stereocilia ,  and leads to fluctuations in hair cell membrane potential ,  transducing sound into electrical signals [ mp , modified ] 
a proximal phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the tubercle of a rib is an eminence on the posterior surface ,  at the junction of the neck and body of the rib ,  and nearer the lower than the upper border .
the nonvascular ,  resilient ,  flexible hyaline connective tissue that connects the end of a true rib to the sternum or the end of a false rib with the with the lower border of the costal cartilage above it
a rib that is ventrally connected to the sternum .
a rib that is not directly ventrally connected to the sternum .
a rib that is not connected to sternum or sternal cartilage .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
endoskeletal elements that encase the brain ,  nose ,  inner ear [ cjm ]  .
the jelly - like substance in the middle of the spinal disc which is a remnant of the notochord
one of a number of veins in the subcutaneous tissue that empty into deep veins
one of the bones of the upper jaw situated between and in front of the maxillae [ vhog ]  .
a paired regions of the cerebellum that lie outside and lateral to the central vermis [ mp ]  .
two column - shaped nuclear masses formed by large cells .
either one of the pair of tubular extensions from the uterine body where the uterus and the uterine tubes meet ;  uterine horns are anterior mullerian duct - derived structures
the passage between the venous and arterial mesocardia  - i .e . ,  between the aorta and pulmonary artery in front and the superior vena cava behind .
an artery found in the forearm ,  between the radial artery and ulnar artery .
the continuation of the femoral artery coursing through the popliteal fossa ;  it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries .
the iliocostalis is the muscle immediately lateral to the longissimus that is the nearest to the furrow that separates the epaxial muscles from the hypaxial .
a superficial postvertebral muscle innervated by the posterior ramus of the cervical spinal nerve with origins in the upper thoracic and lower cervical spinous processes whose actions are to extend and ipsilaterally rotate the head and neck .
an embryological anatomical structure that forms an open connection between the initial area of development of the thyroid gland and its final position ;  it is located exactly midline ,  between the anterior 2 / 3rds and posterior 1 / 3rd of the tongue ;  this duct normally atrophies and closes off as the foramen cecum before birth
an organ thought to supplement the olfactory system in receiving pheromonic communication .
the pronounced ,  dorsolaterally oriented ridge of grey matter in each lateral half of the spinal cord [ mp ]  .
the ventral grey column of the spinal cord [ mp ]  .
the white substance of the spinal cord lying on either side between the posterior median sulcus and the dorsal root .
either of the two pairs of colliculi on the dorsal surface of the midbrain composed of white matter externally and gray matter within ,  the superior pair containing correlation centers for optic reflexes and the inferior pair containing correlation centers for auditory reflexes [ bto ]  .
the ventral roots contain efferent motor axons .
the dorsal roots contain afferent sensory axons .
the celiac ganglia are two large irregularly shaped masses of nerve tissue in the upper abdomen .
the lentiform nucleus or lenticular nucleus comprises the putamen and the globus pallidus within the basal ganglia .
a bulbous anterior projection of the olfactory lobe that is the place of termination of the olfactory nerves and is especially well developed in lower vertebrates  ( as fishes )  [ bto ]  .
white matter tract that contains projections from the olfactory bulb to other parts of the brain
laminated structure lying caudal to the olfactory bulb
the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus  ( or lateroposterior tegmental nucleus )  is a nucleus situated in the brainstem ,  spanning the midbrain tegmentum and the pontine tegmentum .
an organ that houses olfactory neurons and is responsible for the sense of smell .
the pupillary membrane in mammals exists in the fetus as a source of blood supply for the lens .
an artery that is part of the optic stalk of the eye and extends from the optic disc through the vitreous humor to the lens .
a composite substructure of the brainstem that consists of the midbrain reticular formation ,  the pontine reticular formation and the medullary reticular formation  (  carpenter - 1983  )  .
the osseous spiral lamina consists of two plates of bone ,  and between these are the canals for the transmission of the filaments of the acoustic nerve .
a concavity in the floor of the cochlear duct ,  formed by either the overhanging vestibular lip  ( inner spiral sulcus )  or the spiral prominence and the spiral organ  ( outer spiral sulcus )  .
the fluid - filled space separating the membranous from the osseous labyrinth .
at the hinder part of the medial wall of the vestibule is the orifice of the vestibular aqueduct ,  which extends to the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone .
acellular structure composed of calcium carbonate located in the otolith organ .
a membrane inside the cochlea of the inner ear .
the upper portion of the spiral ligament contains numerous capillary loops and small blood vessels ,  and is termed the stria vascularis .
portion of tissue  ( or germinal matrix )  upon which the nail rests ,  the part of the nail bed that extends beneath the nail root and contains nerves ,  lymph and blood vessels .
epithelium located beneath the nail plate at the junction between the free edge and the skin of the fingertip .
a brain ventricle that is part of a telencephalon .
part of the ventricular system of the brain ,  forming a single large cavity in the midline of the diencephalon ;  it is continuous with the lateral ventricles through the interventricular foramen and the fourth ventricle through the cerebral aqueduct .
recess in third ventricle lying in front of the optic chiasm at the base of the lamina terminalis
part of choroid plexus contained in the third ventricle
part of ventricular system of brain consisting of a narrow channel in the midbrain connecting the third and fourth ventricles .
choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle
spinal cord structure that is part of the ventricular system and is filled with cerebral - spinal fluid and runs the length of the spinal cord .
the costovertebral joints are the articulations that connect the heads of the ribs with the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae .
a bars of hyaline cartilage located between the distal part of a rib and a costal cartilage ,  connecting the ribs to the sternum  .
organ system subdivision that consists of the organs and ducts that are involved in the production and transportation of bile .
the division of the spiral canal of the cochlea that contains the organ of corti  ( the neuroepithelial receptor organ for hearing ) 
the mesentery that originates from the dorsal side of the peritoneal cavity [ zfa ]  .
the yellow or brown waxy secretions produced by vestigial apocrine sweat glands in the external ear canal [ mesh ]  .
stalk - like part of the brain that includes amongst its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain [ zfa , mp , generalized ]  .
spherical outcropping of the respiratory bronchioles and primary site of gas exchange with the blood .
a chamber of an organ with cavitated organ parts .
one of the layers of the neocortex .
the atrial part of middle layer of the heart ,  comprised of involuntary muscle
an anatomical structure which consists of juxtaglomerular cells ,  extraglomerular mesangial cells and the macula densa .
one of the three layers of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation .
the layers of the laminar structure of the hippocampus .
mucus produced in the nasal cavity ,  by the respiratory segment of the nasal mucosa .
part of choroid plexus contained in the lateral ventricle
a neural nucleus that is part of the brain .
the medial longitudinal fasciculus  ( mlf )  is a pair of crossed fiber tracts ,  one on each side of the brainstem .
regional part of fornix consisting of a prominent white matter structure adjacent to the hippocampus on the ventricular side continuous with the alveus .
a cytoarchitectural term denoting the layer of the hippocampus in which pyramidal cells are predominant .
dorsal part of the midbrain ,  consisting of the superior and inferior colliculi and the pretectal nuclei  ( mm )  .
the ridge - shaped grey matter of the spinal cord that extends longitudunally through the center of each half of the spinal cord ,  and are largely or entirely composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
neural tissue consisting of myelinated axons connecting grey matter areas of the central nervous system .
regional part of cerebellum consisting of the myelinated axons lying deep to the granule cell layer ,  excluding the deep cerebellar nuclei and the cerebellar peduncles .
the regions of the spinal cord that are largely or entirely composed of myelinated nerve cell axons and contain few or no neural cell bodies or dendrites .
the inner layer of the glomerulus ,  within the basement membrane surrounding the glomerular capillaries .
a thin membrane which helps to support the capillary loops in a renal glomerulus .
the tissue comprised of mesangial cells that fill the triangular space between the macula densa and the afferent and efferent arterioles of the juxtaglomerular apparatus
a thin sheet of small neurons located in the wall of the third ventricle ,  a composite structure of the hypothalamus .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
any muscle organ that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the urethra is a renal system organ that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body .
a lamina propria that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a flexible rod - shaped body found in embryos of all chordates .
somites are spheres of epithelial cells that form sequentially along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo through mesenchymal to epithelial transition of the presomitic mesoderm .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the connecting cord from the developing embryo to the placenta .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
the duct of the submadibular gland that opens at the sublingual papilla near the frenulum of the tongue
the macula densa is an area of specialized cells in the distal tubule that makes contact with the vascular pole of the glomerulus [ go ]  .
white matter structure containing massive numbers of commissural fibers connecting cortical areas in the two cerebral hemispheres .it is subdivided into a genu ,  a rostrum ,  a body ,  and a splenium .
the layer of connective tissue comprised of the endometrial lining of the uterus which fluctuates in thickness throughout the menstrual cycle .
a lamina propria that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the tissue made up of epithelial cells that lines the inside of the lobar bronchus .
an epithelium that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a segmental bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
set of all muscles in abdomen .
the part of the aorta that extends from the arch of the aorta to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
a region of the serous membrane that forms the innermost layer of the pericardium and the outer surface of the heart .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
the part of the cardiac conduction system that controls the timing of heart muscle contraction .
an area of conducting tissue between the atria and the ventricles of the heart that conducts the normal electrical impulse from the atria to the ventricles .
a part of the his - purkinje system that transmits signals from the av node to the cardiac purkinje fibers [ go ] 
the cardiac purkinje fiber is part of the cardiac conduction system that receives signals from the bundle of his and innervates the ventricular cardiac muscle
the lower segment of the trunk ,  inferioposterior to the abdomen proper ,  in the transition area between the trunk and the lower limbs .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the pelvis by the inferior surface of the pelvic diaphragm and from the lower limbs by the perineofemoral lines ;  together with the thorax ,  abdomen ,  and pelvis ,  it constitutes the trunk [ fma ]  .
serous membrane which is divided into parietal and visceral serous pericardium .
a serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity [ vhog , modified ]  .
membrane organ which is attached to the pericardial sac proper and the central tendon of diaphragm and is continuous with the pretracheal fascia .
membrane organ that surrounds the brain and the spinal cord .
the innermost layer of the leptomeninges ,  consisting of a delicate membrane closely covering the surface of the brain and spinal cord , and lying under the arachnoid membrane .
a think avascular meningeal layer ,  between the pia mater and the dural mater .
thick ,  fibrous meningeal covering surrounding the brain and spinal cord .
a thin membrane that separates the external ear from the middle ear ,  consisting of two epithelia  ( one part of the the external accoustic meatus epithelium ,  the other part of the tympanic cavity epithelium )  with a fibrous layer between them .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
any of the small paired racemose glands below the apex of the prostate in males ,  located posterolateral to the membranous portion of the urethra at the base of the penis ,  between the two layers of the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm ,  in the deep perineal pouch ,  and enclosed by transverse fibers of the sphincter urethrae membranaceae muscle ;  homologous to the greater vestibular  ( bartholin's )  glands in the female [ mp ] 
the prostate gland is a partly muscular ,  partly glandular body that is situated near the base of the mammalian male urethra and secretes an alkaline viscid fluid which is a major constituent of the ejaculatory fluid .
endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products directly into the circulatory system rather than through a duct .
either of a pair of complex endocrine organs near the anterior medial border of the kidney consisting of a mesodermal cortex that produces glucocorticoid ,  mineralocorticoid ,  and androgenic hormones and an ectodermal medulla that produces epinephrine and norepinephrine [ bto ]  .
anatomical structure of largely lymphoid tissue that functions in cell - mediated immunity by being the site where t cells develop .
the soft tissue that fills the cavities of bones
either of the two small almond - shaped masses of lymph tissue found on either side of the oropharynx
tonsils on the left and right sides at the back of the throat .
a bone that is part of the metacarpal skeleton .
a cartilaginous ring that provides support for the arytenoid cartilages and forms the caudal part of the larynx .
any skeletal muscle that is part of the head region .
any muscle that is part of the cervical  ( neck )  region .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the abdomen .
any muscle organ that is part of a perineum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a large superficial muscle that extends longitudinally from the occipital bone to the lower thoracic vertebrae and laterally to the spine of the scapula  ( shoulder blade )  .
the pectoralis major is a thick ,  fan - shaped muscle ,  situated at the upper front of the chest wall .
the rectus abdominis muscle is a paired muscle running vertically on each side of the anterior wall of the abdomen .
the supraspinatus is a relatively small muscle of the upper limb that takes its name from its origin from the supraspinous fossa superior to the spine of the scapula .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
the middle limb segment of the pectoral free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
distal portion of the hind limb ,  including tarsal region ,  metatarsal region and digits .
a digit that is part of a manus  ( hand )  .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
lymph is the fluid that is formed when interstitial fluid enters the conduits of the lymphatic system through lymph capillaries [ wp ]  .
the paired channels leading from the lacrimal sacs to the inferior meatus of the nose ,  through which tears are conducted through the nasal cavity
organ with organ cavity which connects the cavity of the middle ear to the cavity of the pharynx .
any of the ducts that form the biliary tree ,  carrying bile from the liver to the small intestine .
a proximal tarsal bone resulting from fusion of intermedium and fibulare .
the triangular flat bone of the nasal septum
the bone which normally forms the lateral upper jaw in osteichthyans ,  including tetrapods .
distal segment of the fore limb ,  including carpal region ,  metacarpal region and digits .
the double layer of peritoneum that extends from the liver to the lesser curvature of the stomach and the start of the duodenum .
the outer serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the inner serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the fluid - filled cavity that lies between the visceral and parietal pleurae .
an intercostal muscle that aids in forced expiration  ( quiet expiration is a passive process )  .
the tranversus thoracis lies internal to the thoracic cage ,  anteriorly .
anatomical system that protects the body from foreign substances ,  cells ,  and tissues by producing the immune response and that includes especially the thymus ,  spleen ,  lymphoid tissue ,  lymphocytes including the b cells and t cells ,  and antibodies .
a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels .
the combination of pericardial sac  ( a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels )  plus fibrous pericardium .
parietal serous membrane which is part of the pericardium and forms the outer layer of the pericardial sac .
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
the autonomic nervous system is composed of neurons that are not under conscious control ,  and is comprised of two antagonistic components ,  the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems .
the small ,  erectile body located at the anterior end of the vulva
the ossified form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
a vertebra that is located in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
large vertebra of the movable part of the vertebral column ,  characterized by the absence of the foramen transversarium within the transverse process ,  and by the absence of facets on the sides of the body .
an external caudal extension of the body .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
the abdominal segment of the torso .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an individual member of a collection of basal ganglia .
hippocampus  ( proper )  plus dentate gyrus and subiculum [ definition derived from nif comments and ontology alignment ]  .
part of the ventricular system of the brain ,  forming a single large irregularly shaped cavity located on the midline of the rhombencephalon ,  between the medulla ,  pons and the isthmus ventrally and the cerebellum dorsally .
the part of the digestive system that contains the liver and the biliary system
an epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium and is attached to the myocardium [ fma ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
cervical lymph nodes are lymph nodes found in the neck .
the lateral hypothalamus or lateral hypothalamic area is a part of the hypothalamus .
the thin boundary between the adenohypophysis and neurohypophysis of the pituitary that produces melanocyte stimulating hormone  ( msh )  ;  this area is small or absent in mammalian adults
the pars tuberalis is part of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland ,  and wraps the pituitary stalk in a highly vascularized sheath .
the apical portion of the tubular structure extending from the hypothalamus to the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland
a region of the forebrain consisting of the caudate nucleus ,  putamen and fundus striati .
a subdivision of the cytoarchitecturally defined occipital region of cerebral cortex in the human .
white matter that is part of a cerebral hemisphere .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a ventral tegmental area .
one of two ganglionated neural networks which together form the enteric nervous system .
the inferior cervical ganglion is situated between the base of the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib ,  on the medial side of the costocervical artery .
the group of neurons formed by the fusion of the inferior cervical and first thoracic ganglia
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a region of the lens consisting of packed elongated enucleate cells packed with crystallin
the postaxial bone of the proximal carpal region .
a large sesamoid bone found in the distal femur / proximal tibial region of the hindlimb of tetrapods .
the palatine glands form a continuous layer on its posterior surface and around the uvula .
any of the mushroom - shaped papillae ,  which have a single taste bud at the tip ,  located mostly on the dorsal anterior portion of the tongue
the maternal uterine - derived portion of the placenta
the mucous secreting gland associated with the mucuous membrane lining the uterus .
the evaginations of the mucous membrane of the nasal cavity into the ethmoidal bony labyrinth ,  forming multiple small paranasal sinuses
aanastomosis of dorsal carpal branch of the radial artery and the dorsal carpal branch of the ulnar artery near the back of the wrist .
an artery that supplies the anterior chest wall and the breasts .
the small branching sprouts of the dorsal aorta that grow across the medial surface of the somite ,  turn right angles to grow over that surface and then fuse with other sprouts and form the vertebral arteries adjacent to the neural tube ;  the intersomitic arteries supply the body wall and persist in the adult as the posterior intercostal ,  subcostal and the lumbar arteries
arteries that supply the spinal cord .
a blood vessel that drains from from an lower eyelid .
a tributary of the iliac vein that drains the urinary bladder .
any skeletal muscle organ that is part of a anterior abdominal wall .
a bundle of muscles and tendons that is paired and runs more or less vertically .
any of the posterior thigh muscles .
the lymphatic system in vertebrates is a network of conduits that carry a clear fluid called lymph .
clear to pale yellow watery secretions from the glands lining the small intestine walls .
the filiform papillae are thin ,  long 'v' - shaped cones that don't contain taste buds but are the most numerous .
any of the papillae located on the sides of the tongue
a mucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
terminal segment of free limb ,  immediately distal to the zeugopod region .
the middle free limb segment ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
the proximal free limb segment .
a commissure that connects the two cerebral hemispheres .
a composite structure of the brain stem ,  which is subdivided into the superior cerebellar peduncle of pons ,  the decussation of superior cerebellar peduncle and the superior cerebellar peduncle of midbrain  ( mm )  [ nif ,  based on nn ]  .
the largest cutaneous branch of the femoral nerve .
the more lateral of the two segments of the globus pallidus ,  abutting the putamen
the more medial segment of the globus pallidus .
the bone that is situated in the orbit on either side of the presphenoid ;  it generally forms a part of the sphenoid in the adult ,  and may be independent in the young
the main division of the lateral geniculate body ;  consists of two magnocellular layers  [ ta ]   ( strata magnocellularia  [ ta ]  )  and four parvocellular layers  [ ta ]   ( strata parvocellularia  [ ta ]  )  and serves as a processing station in the major pathway from the retina to the cerebral cortex ,  receiving fibers from the optic tract and giving rise to the geniculocalcarine radiation to the visual cortex in the occipital lobe .
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
bone tissue that has a regular parallel alignment of collagen into sheets  ( lamellae )  and is mechanically strong .
bone tissue that has a lattice - like or spongy structure ;  it is highly vascular and contains intercommunicating spaces filled with bone marrow
the medullary cavities of the bones where bone marrow is stored
the minute canals that pass the prostatic secretions to the urethra .
the vocal apparatus of the larynx ,  which includes the vocal cords and the opening between them
the central hollow space of a tooth
the helix is the prominent rim of the pinna .
the dense ,  fibrous connective tissue joint between the tetrapod parietal bones and the frontal bone
a suture that connects the two frontal bones of the skull .
the dense ,  fibrous connective tissue joint between the parietal bones and the occipital bone
the dense ,  fibrous connective tissue joint between the tetrapod parietal bones
the branch of the internal iliac artery that supplies the uterus and the upper part of the vagina
one of the group of myocardial bundles which terminate in the chordae tendineae that attach to the cusps of the atrioventricular valves ;  each ventricle has an anterior and a posterior papillary muscle ;  the right ventricle sometimes has a septal papillary muscle
long bone is a limb bone that is subcylindrical and has a shaft with periosteum separating the ends of the bones .
the flat portion of the stirrup of the ear that fits in the oval window between the middle and inner ear .
region of the scapula where the latter meets with the clavicle: attachment point of the clavicle to the scapula in some taxa .
a rough elevation at the middle of the lateral side of the shaft of the humerus to which the deltoid muscle attaches
the labyrinth is a system of fluid passages in the inner ear ,  including both the cochlea ,  which is part of the auditory system ,  and the vestibular system ,  which provides the sense of balance .
the bony arch in vertebrates that extends along the side or front of the skull beneath the eye socket and is formed by the temporal process of the zygomatic bone and the zygomatic process of the temporal bone
the oval opening on the medial wall of the tympanic cavity leading into the vestibule ,  close to the foot of the stapes
the opening on the medial wall of the middle ear leading into the cochlea ,  closed in life by the secondary tympanic membrane ;  serves to regulate fluid pressure in the inner ear
the greater trochanter  ( great trochanter )  of the femur is a large ,  irregular ,  quadrilateral eminence and a part of the skeletal system .
the lesser trochanter  ( small trochanter )  of the femur is a conical eminence ,  which varies in size in different subjects  [ wp , unvetted ]  .
the artery which parallels the spiral ganglion in the root of the spiral lamina of the modiolus ,  serving the ganglion and the cochlear duct and its contents .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymph node that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the visceral glands that are associated with the branches of the celiac artery ,  including the gastric ,  hepatic ,  and pancreaticolienal  ( splenic )  lymph nodes
the lymph nodes located in the mesentery ,  of which there are 3 classes: ileocolic ,  juxtaintestinal mesenteric ,  and central superior group .
in humans ,  the anterior fontanelle  ( bregmatic fontanelle ,  frontal fontanelle )  is the largest ,  and is placed at the junction of the sagittal suture ,  coronal suture ,  and frontal suture ;  it is lozenge - shaped ,  and measures about 4 cm in its antero - posterior and 2 .5 cm in its transverse diameter .
the supporting bundles of muscular fibers lining the walls of the ventricles of the heart
a transient endocrine gland that develops from the postovulatory or atretic follicles and secretes progesterone ;  it is thought to be related to egg retention [ pmid ]  .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
bone tissue forms directly within mesenchyme ,  and does not replace other tissues [ tao ]  .
the thick fibrous membrane that closely invests the entire surface of a bone except the articular cartilage at synovial joints
a hyaline cartilage plate in the metaphysis at each end of a long bone .
the base of skull is the most inferior area of the skull ,  composed of the endocranium and lower parts of the skull roof .
the crystalline particles composed of calcium carbonate and a protein which adhere to the gelatinous membrane of the maculae of the utricle and saccule  ( otolithic membrane ) 
the layer of the statoconial membrane that is composed of otoliths
the submandibular lymph nodes  ( submaxillary glands in older texts )  ,  three to six in number ,  are placed beneath the body of the mandible in the submaxillary triangle ,  and rest on the superficial surface of the submaxillary salivary gland .
connective tissue composed of elastic fibers .
the middle layer of an artery or vein .
the innermost layer of a blood vessel which is a lining of endothelial cells facing the lumen [ kardong ]  .
a lymph node that is part of a mediastinum .
the lymph nodes located along the brachial vein that receive drainage from most of the free upper limb and send efferent vessels to the central axillary lymph nodes .
the lumbar lymph nodes  ( paraaortic nodes )  are a group of lymph nodes residing in the lumbar region .
a lymph node that is part of a pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymph node located in the sacral region .
a major subdivision of a mature or developing limb ,  including both skeletal elements  ( or the mesenchyme that gives rise to the skeletal elements )  and associated tissues ,  such as muscle ,  connective tissue ,  integument .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a paired fin .
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
the rapidly proliferating mass of cells at the caudal extremity of the embryo ;  remnant of the primitive node .
fin that is one of a pair located ventrally on the organism .
anatomical surface structure found in many aquatic organisms .
sense organ embedded in the integument and consisting of one or a cluster of sensory neurons and associated sensory structures ,  support cells and glial cells forming a single organised unit with a largely bona - fide boundary .
a gonad with both testicular and ovarian aspects [ wp ]  .
the cells of the hatching gland contain enzymes responsible for solubilization of the egg chorion ,  facilitating the hatching process [ go ]  .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
a line of sensory organs and associated structures along the sides of fish and amphibia that detect vibrations and pressure changes .
the thickend rim of the blastoderm evident during late blastula and gastrula stages [ fishbase ]  .
a small rigid plate that grows out of an animal's skin to provide protection .
postcranial axial skeleton that is unpaired and located on the sagittal plane of the organism .
a subdivision of the autopod that has as part a series of phalanges together with associated vasculature ,  musculature ,  integument and nerves .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
an an organism at the tadpole stage
a distinct juvenile form many animals undergo before metamorphosis into adults .
the anterior trigeminothalamic tract  ( or ventral trigeminothalamic tract )  serves as pain ,  temperature ,  and light touch pathway from the face ,  head and neck .
the largest and most prominent of the cell groups of the medial longitudinal fasciculus
white matter tract containing axons arising in the vestibular ganglion primarily projecting to the ipsilateral cerebellum via the inferior cerebellar peduncle  ( heimer ,  l . the human brain ,  2nd ed . ,  1995 ,  pg 370 )  .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a superior colliculus .
the portion of the hypothalamus located generally internal to the region of the infundibulum .
the reticular formation is a series of brain nuclei located in the medulla oblongata
part of temporal lobe overlaying the insular cortex
the cavity that is enclosed by the central nervous system .
the superior frontal sulcus is a sulcus between the superior frontal gyrus and the middle frontal gyrus .
small distinct nucleus in the pretectum of mammals involved in the pupillary light reflect .
ventral subdivision of the pons which consists of the massive pontine pertuberance on pontine ventral surface .
the reticular formation is a part of the brain that is involved in actions such as awaking / sleeping cycle ,  and filtering incoming stimuli to discriminate irrelevant background stimuli .
a regional part of brain that is part of a inferior olivary complex  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anterior component of the temporal lobe  ( rostral boundary )  extends caudally to the entorhinal cortex .
a regional part of brain that is part of a medullary reticular formation  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
bundle of fibers that passes over the medial geniculate nucleus  ( in humans )  to reach the superior colliculus .
component of the parietal lobe .
a commissure that is part of a superior colliculus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a regional part of brain that is part of a vestibular nuclear complex  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the calcarine fissure is an anatomical landmark located at the caudal end of the medial surface of the brain .
regional part of superior cerebellar peduncle located in the caudal midbrain ,  at the level of the inferior colliculus ,  consisting of a large bundle of fibers crossing the midline .
part of the corticospinal tract located in the spinal cord ,  formed as 75 to 90% of the corticospinal fibers cross to the opposite side of the brainstem in the pyramidal decussation .
prepyriform area  ( or prepiriform cortex )  is a portion of the rhinencephalon consisting of paleocortex .
fibers interconnecting the cerebellum and vestibular nuclei ,  traveling medial to the restiform body  ( inferior cerebellar peduncle )   ( nolte ,  the human brain ,  6th ed . ,  pg 497 ) 
the dentatothalamic tract  ( or dentatorubrothalamic tract )  is a tract which connects the dentate nucleus and the thalamus .
the inferior or orbital surface of the frontal lobe is concave ,  and rests on the orbital plate of the frontal bone .
part of thalamus receiving primary somatic sensory information via the medial lemniscal pathway that projects to the primary somatosensory cortex  ( adapted from paxinos ,  the rat nervous system ,  2nd ed ,  academic press ,  1995 )  .
the principal sensory nucleus  ( or chief sensory nucleus of v )  is a group of second order neurons which have cell bodies in the dorsal pons .
the paracentral sulcus is a sulcus of the brain .
part of cerebral hemisphere located on the medial surface ,  forming a ring around the brain stem
a small paired band that passes around the splenium of the corpus callosum from the lateral longitudinal stria to the dentate gyrus [ biology - online ]  .
the small wedge shaped nucleus interposed between the dentate and fastigial nuclei ;  it receives axons from purkinje cells of the intermediate area of the cerebral hemispheres and most of its efferent connections travel via the superior cerebellar peduncle
the paraterminal gyrus  ( subcallosal gyrus ,  peduncle of the corpus callosum )  is a narrow lamina on the medial surface of the hemisphere in front of the lamina terminalis ,  behind the parolfactory area ,  and below the rostrum of the corpus callosum .
the lateral lemniscus is a tract of axons in the brainstem that carries information about sound from the cochlear nucleus to various brainstem nuclei and ultimately the contralateral inferior colliculus of the midbrain .
the ventrolateral lip of the precentral gyrus ,  which overlies the insula and is bounded by the lateral fissure  ( brain info )  .
a cluster of neurites that is part of a nervous system and forms a network of dendrites and axons where synapses are present and in which neuronal somata do not occur .
the cochlear nuclei consist of:  ( a )  the dorsal cochlear nucleus ,  corresponding to the tuberculum acusticum on the dorso - lateral surface of the inferior peduncle ;  and  ( b )  the ventral or accessory cochlear nucleus ,  placed between the two divisions of the nerve ,  on the ventral aspect of the inferior peduncle .
the two or three small masses of gray matter that is located medial to the emboliform nucleus and lateral to the fastigial nucleus ;  it receives axons from the intermediate area of the cerebellar hemispheres and its afferents exit through the superior cerebellar peduncle .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
a regional part of brain that is part of a cerebral cortex  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
part of hypothalamus consisting of hollow eminence of gray matter situated between the mammilary bodies and the optic chiasm visible on the basal surface of the brain  ( adapted from wikipedia ) 
a regional part of brain that is part of a cochlear nuclear complex  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the preoptic periventricular nucleus is located along the midline and is medial to the medial preoptic nucleus .
synonym for macrodissected adult human tegmentum  ( vicq d'azyr ,  1784 ;  swanson ,  2000 )  ;  pp .
component of the inferior frontal gyrus .defined as the first gyrus from the precentral gyrus .the remainder of the inferior frontal gyrus once the pars opercularis and triangularis have been defined  ( christine fennema - notestine )  . ,  neuronames
the median preoptic nucleus is located along the midline in a position significantly dorsal to the other 3 preoptic nuclei ,  at least in the macaca fascicularis brain .
largest part of the caudate nucleus lying lateral to and protruding into the anterior of the lateral ventricle
narrowest part of the caudate nucleus ,  roughtly defined as that portion that curves ventrally from the body of the caudate nucleus ,  following the temporal horn of the lateral ventricle
component of the inferior frontal gyrus .defined as the second gyrus from the precentral gyrus  ( christine fennema - notestine )  .
part of caudate nucleus lying just dorsal to the thalamus
the cerebral crus is the anterior portion of the cerebral peduncle which contains the motor tracts ,  the plural of which is cerebral crura .
nucleus located in the pontine tegmentum containing cells that give rise to motor innervation of the jaw through the trigeminal nerve .
a loose heterogeneous collection of cells in the anterior hypothalamus ,  continuous rostrally with the medial and lateral preoptic areas and caudally with the tuber cinereum
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a midbrain tegmentum .
the ventral anterior nucleus is a nucleus of the thalamus .
part of the reticular formation located in the midbrain tegmentum
white matter tract that originates from the cuneate and external cuneate nuclei .
part of cuneate fasciculus found in the medulla
the sensory decussation or decussation of the lemniscus is a decussation or cross over of axons from the gracile nucleus and cuneate nucleus .
part of dorsal longitudinal fasciculus located in the medulla
part of lissauer's tract located in the medulla
part of the lateral ventricle that extends anteriorly into the frontal lobes ,  bordered by the head of the caudate nucleus on the lateral side  ( adapted from heimer ,  1996 ) 
part of gracile fasiculus located in the medulla
part of lateral ventricle consisting of the central portion that lies dorsally ,  bounded by the thalamus on the ventral side  ( adapted from heimer ,  1996 ) 
the posterior parahippocampal gyrus is a portion of the parahippocampal gyrus .
part of medial lemniscus located within the midbrain
the superior medullary velum  ( anterior medullary velum ,  valve of vieussens )  is a thin ,  transparent of white substance ,  which stretches between the superior cerebellar peduncles ;  on the dorsal surface of its lower half the folia and lingula are prolonged .
a medial longitudinal fasciculus that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
component of the frontal lobe ,  lateral aspect .
collection of nerve cells in the medial forebrain lying generally in front of the anterior commissure  ( maryann martone )  .
regional part of the septal nuclei ,  lying dorsal and slightly lateral to the medial septal nucleus .
initial segment of the occulomotor nerve as it leaves the midbrain .
nuclear complex containing the vestibular nuclei .
the ventral supraoptic decussation is the crossover point for signals from the left and right eye ,  en route respectively to the right and left sides of the visual cortex .
a regional part of brain that is part of a medullary raphe nuclear complex  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a regional part of brain that is part of a medulla oblongata  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a regional part of brain that is part of a metencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
nucleus located beneath the floor of the 4th ventricle in the pontine tegmentum ,  containing motor neurons innervating the lateral rectus muscle of the eye  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 533 ) 
in the human brain ,  the rhinencephalon appears as a longitudinal elevation ,  with a corresponding internal furrow ,  on the under surface of the hemisphere close to the lamina terminalis ;  it is separated from the lateral surface of the hemisphere by a furrow ,  the external rhinal fissure  ( or rhinal sulcus )  ,  and is continuous behind with that part of the hemisphere ,  which will ultimately form the anterior end of the temporal lobe .
the raphe obscurus projects to the cerebellar lobes vi and vii and to crus ii along with the nucleus raphe pontis  .
part of inferior parietal lobule formed by the cortex surrounding the upturned end of the superior temporal sulcus  ( nolte ,  the human brain ,  6th ed ,  2009 ,  pg 659 ) 
component of the parietal lobe .
one of the circumventricular organs of the brain .
unpaired midbrain region situated in the ventromedial portion of the reticular formation .
only a small part of the parietooccipital fissure  ( or parieto - occipital sulcus )  is seen on the lateral surface of the hemisphere ,  its chief part being on the medial surface .
small indentation on the inferior surface of the cerebral cortex at the border of the occiptal and parietal lobes .
component of the frontal lobe ,  lateral aspect  ( christine fennema - notestine )  .
component of the frontal lobe .
the metathalamus is a composite structure of the thalamus ,  consisting of the medial geniculate nucleus and the lateral geniculate nucleus .
the midline nuclear group  ( or midline thalamic nuclei )  a region of the thalamus consisting of the following nuclei: paraventricular nucleus of thalamus  ( nucleus paraventricularis thalami )   -  not to be confused with paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus paratenial nucleus  ( nucleus parataenialis )  reuniens nucleus  ( nucleus reuniens )  rhomboidal nucleus  ( nucleus commissuralis rhomboidalis )  subfascicular nucleus  ( nucleus subfascicularis )   [ wp , unvetted ]  .
the posterior nucleus of the hypothalamus is one of the many nuclei that make up the hypothalamic region of the brain .
the corticospinal fibers that arise from the pyramidal cells within the cerebral cortex layer v of the precentral motor area ,  the premotor area and the postcentral gyrus ,  then descend into and through the medulla to form the lateral corticospinal tract and the anterior corticospinal tract .
part of thalamus comprising ill defined cellular groups in the caudal thalamus at the meso - diencephalic junction .
the cingulate sulcus is a sulcus  ( brain fold )  on the medial wall of the cerebral cortex .
a marginal sulcus that is part of a insula  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
white matter tract arising in red nucleus and projecting to spinal cord ventral horn
part of spinal trigeminal tract located in the medulla
the collateral fissure  ( or sulcus )  is on the tentorial surface of the hemisphere and extends from near the occipital pole to within a short distance of the temporal pole .
the rostral interstitial nucleus of medial longitudinal fasciculus  ( rimlf )  is a portion of the medial longitudinal fasciculus which controls vertical gaze .
the solitary tract is a compact fiber bundle that extends longitudinally through the posterolateral region of the medulla .
the spino - olivary tract is located in the ventral funiculus of the spinal cord .
white matter bundle in the posterior hypothalamus containing ascending afferent fibers to the mammillary bodies from the ventral and dorsal tegmental nuclei  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 671 )  .
a sulcus that divides the frontal lobe and parietal lobe above from the temporal lobe below .
nucleus in the midbrain at the level of the inferior colliculus near the midline ,  containing the motor neurons giving rise to the trochlear nerve ,  innervating the contralateral superior oblique extraocular muscle of the eye  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed ,  1981 ,  pg .
the anterior basal part of the insular cortex ,  which separates the lateral surface of the insula from the anterior perforated substance  ( heimer ,  the human brain and spinal cord ,  2nd ed . ,  1995 ,  pg 80 )  .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a cervical region .
thin sheet of white matter dividing the external and internal segments of the globus pallidus in primates
component of the temporal lobe on the mesial surface .
a regional part of brain that is part of a thalamus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
either of the two roots that come of the vestibulocochlear nerve
the intralaminar nucleus is a nucleus of the thalamus that contains the following nuclei: central lateral centromedian  ( or 'central medial' )  paracentral parafascicular .
the superior temporal sulcus is the sulcus separating the superior temporal gyrus from the middle temporal gyrus in the temporal lobe of the brain .
the lateral nuclear group is a collection of nuclei on the lateral side of the thalamus .
component of the cingulate cortex .
the medial dorsal nucleus  ( or dorsomedial nucleus of thalamus )  is a large nucleus in the thalamus .
the posterior cingulate cortex is the backmost part of the cingulate cortex ,  lying behind the anterior cingulate cortex .
a white fibre bundle descending in the precommissural septum toward the base of the forebrain ,  immediately rostral to the lamina terminalis ;  at the base ,  the bundle turns in the caudolateral direction ;  traveling through the ventral substantia innominata alongside the optic tract ,  it fades before reaching the amygdala .
one of two layers of both white and gray matter of the septum pellucidum .
a region of the brain consisting of ventral and rostral subcortical regions of the telencephalon ,  including among others ,  the basal ganglia ,  septal nuclei ,  amygdala ,  ventral pallidum ,  substantia innominata ,  and basal nucleus of meynert .
the mouth of the flasklike dentate nucleus of the cerebellum ,  directed inward  ( rostromedial )  ,  and giving exit to many of the fibers that compose the superior cerebellar peduncle or brachium conjunctivum .
part of medial lemniscus located within the medulla
a regional part of brain that is part of a cerebellar cortex  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a medial longitudinal fasciculus that is part of a medulla  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
component of the temporal lobe ,  lateral aspect .
the olivocerebellar tract  ( olivocerebellar fibers )  leaves the olivary nucleus and pass out through the hilum and decussate with those from the opposite olive in the raphé ,  then as internal arcuate fibers they pass partly through and partly around the opposite olive and enter the inferior peduncle to be distributed to the cerebellar hemisphere of the opposite side from which they arise .
it ascends the dorsal part of the lateral funiculus and enters the cerebellum via the restiform body .
part of medulla comprising a white matter structure containing nerve fibers of the pyramidal tract crossing from one side of the brain to the other  ( mm ) 
a regional part of brain that is part of a epithalamus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
dorsal division of the medial geniculate nucleus ,  as first defined by morest  ( 1964 )  in the cat ,  but also described in the rat .
part of pyramidal tract  ( corticospinal tract )  containing uncrossed fibers and traveling in the ventral funiculus of the spinal cord .
the inferior frontal sulcus is a sulcus between the middle frontal gyrus and the inferior frontal gyrus .
predominantly white regional part of thalamus consisting of a y shaped bundle of fibers that runs the anterior - posterior length of thalamus and divides the thalamus into roughly three regions  ( mm: 2006 - 10 - 26 ) 
thin bundle of myelinated axons that divides the medial pallidal segment into outer and inner portions  ( carpenter ,  core text of neuroanatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1985 ,  pg .
the lateral medullary lamina is a thin white structure located in the basal ganglia of the primate brain .
the fusiform gyrus is part of the temporal lobe .
a long process of a cns neuron ,  that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body in the vestibular nucleus of the pons towards target cells in the spinal cord [ go ]  .
component of the temporal lobe ,  lateral aspect .
the part of the hypothalamus posterior to the middle region consisting of several nuclei including the medial mamillary nucleus ,  lateral mamillary nucleus ,  and posterior hypothalamic nucleus  ( posterior hypothalamic area )  .
component of the temporal lobe ,  lateral aspect .
the medial orbital gyrus presents a well - marked antero - posterior sulcus ,  the olfactory sulcus ,  for the olfactory tract .
the transverse temporal gyri  ( also called heschl's gyri or heschl's convolutions )  are found in the area of primary auditory cortex in the superior temporal gyrus of the human brain ,  occupying brodmann areas 41 and 42 .
a pathway that terminates on the hair cells of the cochlea or equivalent organ in the inner ear .
nuclei in the ventral part of the thalamus ,  involved in modulating activity of dorsal thalamic nuclei .
part of the globus pallidus ,  consisting of the more medial of the two segments .
one of two recognized nuclei comprising the superior olive .
a regional part of brain that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of two subnuclei of the superior olive located within the caudal pontine tegmentum .
a regional part of brain that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a lateral hypothalamic area .
nerve fibers arising from motor neurons in the abducens nucleus that are contained within the pontine tegmentum
the crossing of the two trochlear nerves at their exit through the velum medullare anterius .
mostly gray regional part of anterior thalamic region ,  consisting of the anterior medial ,  anterior dorsal and anterior lateral thalamic nuclei in primates .
a regional part of brain that is part of a posterior hypothalamic region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
white matter structure containing fibers arising from the cochlear nuclear complex
a regional part of brain that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
part of dorsal longitudinal fasciculus located within the pons
a medial longitudinal fasciculus that is part of a pons  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
component of the frontal lobe .
the dorsal trigeminal tract  ( dorsal trigeminothalamic tract ,  or lemniscus )  is a tract which receives signals from meissner's corpuscles and pacinian corpuscles .
part of spinothalamic tract that is in the pontine tegmentum
the thalamus consists chiefly of gray substance ,  but its upper surface is covered by a layer of white substance ,  named the stratum zonale .
parietal lobe of the left hemisphere of the brain
parietal lobe of the right hemisphere of the brain
a limbic lobe that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a limbic lobe that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
an occipital lobe that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
an occipital lobe that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a temporal lobe that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a temporal lobe that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a frontal cortex that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a frontal cortex that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the left side of a brain .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the right side of a brain .
fissure between cerebellar hemispheric lobules viia and viibi .
fissure between cerebellar lobules viibii and viii .
fissure between cerebellar lobules viii and ix .
fissure between cerebellar lobules ix and x .
the cupula is a structure in the vestibular system ,  sensing proprioception .
the inner part of the basilar membrane of the cochlea that supports the spiral organ of corti .
the part of the macula lutea that excludes the fovea .
the ganglion of the vestibular nerve .
the part of the vestibular ganglion that receives fibers from the maculae of the utricle and the sacculae and the ampullae of the anterior and lateral semicircular ducts .
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the eighth cranial nerve during embryogenesis ;  splits in later development to form the cochlear and vestibular ganglia
the ventral cochlear nucleus  ( or anterior ,  or accessory )  ,  placed between the two divisions of the cochlear nerve ,  is on the ventral aspect of the inferior peduncle .
the dorsal cochlear nucleus  ( dcn ,  also known as the 'tuberculum acousticum' )  ,  is a cortex - like structure on the dorso - lateral surface of the brainstem .
a small nucleus of the periolivary complex located laterally to the mntb ,  and ventral to the mso .
nucleus in the pontine tegmentum of most mammals that receives projections from the ventral cochlear nucleus via the large specialized synapse ,  the calyx of held .
a dorsal root ganglion that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the group of nerve cell bodies located on the dorsal spinal roots within the vertebral column at the level of the lumbar vertebrae .
the group of nerve cell bodies located on the dorsal spinal roots within the vertebral column at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra
the accessory cuneate nucleus is located lateral to the cuneate nucleus in the medulla oblongata at the level of the sensory decussation .
a cranial nerve nucleus for the vagus nerve in the medulla that lies under the floor of the fourth ventricle .
nucleus forming a longitudinal cell column in the medulla ,  close beneath the floor of the 4th ventricle ,  containing motor neurons that innervate the muscles of the tongue  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 453 ) 
in the brain ,  the inferior salivatory nucleus is a cluster of neurons controlling the parasympathetic input to the parotid gland .
in the substance of the formatio reticularis are two small nuclei of gray matter .
the output region of the amygdala responsible for controlling responses  ( phelps & ledoux ,  2005 ,  http: /  / www .ncbi .nlm .nih .gov / pubmed /  16242399 )  .
discrete clusters of cells intercalated among the major amygdaloid nuclei .
the sensory interface of the amygdala where plasticity is mediated  ( phelps & ledoux ,  2005 ,  http: /  / www .ncbi .nlm .nih .gov / pubmed /  16242399 )  .
three layered structure that is located in the caudal aspect of the amygdala bordering the periamygdaloid cortex laterally .
aggregate brain region defined as those areas of cerebral cortex receiving direct synaptic input from the olfactory bulb  ( price ,  1973 )  .
brodmann's area 28 ;  major gateway for neocortical input to the hippocampus ;  origin of the perforant pathway ;  a component of the medial temporal lobe memory system .
the region of the subarachnoid space that is located below and anterior to the optic chiasm
the hippocampal sulcus ,  also known as the hippocampal fissure ,  is a sulcus that separates the dentate gyrus from the subiculum and the ca1 field in the hippocampus .
the transverse occipital sulcus is a structure in the occipital lobe .
the anterior end of the hemisphere is named the frontal pole .
the lunate sulcus is a structure in the occipital lobe .
in the occipital lobe ,  the lateral occipital sulcus extends from behind forward ,  and divides the lateral surface of the occipital lobe into a superior and an inferior gyrus ,  which are continuous in front with the parietal and temporal lobes .
a groove located within the boundaries of the lingual gyrus in the human .
one of two branches of the lateral fissure at its posterior terminus identified by dissection in the human .
the parietal operculum ,  forming the superior bank of the sylvian fissure ,  as studied in the cat ,  contains the secondary somatosensory representation ,  's - ii' ,  and a second somatotopic representation  ( parietal ventral ,  or pv )  .
the marginal sulcus is the portion of the cingulate sulcus adjacent to the paracentral lobule and the precuneus .
the intraparietal sulcus  ( ips )  is located on the lateral surface of the parietal lobe ,  and consists of an oblique and a horizontal portion .
the postcentral sulcus of the parietal lobe lies parallel to ,  and behind ,  the central sulcus in the human brain .
the central sulcus is a fold in the cerebral cortex of brains in vertebrates .
a regional part of brain that is part of a inferior colliculus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the medial parabrachial nucleus is a nucleus of the pons which constitutes part of the pneumotaxic center .
the callosal sulcus is a sulcus in the brain between the cingulate gyrus and corpus callosum ,  below the longitudinal cerebral fissure .
the deep groove which separates the two hemispheres of the vertebrate brain .
a small triangular area in front of the anterior perforated substance .
the terminal nerve ,  located anterior to cranial nerve i ,  is comprised of a group of cells with somata adjacent to the olfactory bulb and processes that extend anteriorly to the olfactory epithelium and posteriorly to the telencephalon .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a trigeminal nuclear complex .
a sensory epithelium that is part of a gustatory system .
a cellular layer of the dentate gyrus enclosed by the granule cell layer .
bundles of axons traversing the pontine tegmentum oriented in the mediolateral direction .
the magnocellular red nucleus  ( rnm )  is located in the rostral midbrain and is involved in motor coordination .
the parvocellular red nucleus  ( rnp )  is located in the rostral midbrain and is involved in motor coordination .
the ventral posterolateral nucleus  ( vpl )  is a nucleus of the thalamus .
component of the occipital lobe .
part of spinothalamic tract that is in the medulla
the ventral posteromedial nucleus is a nucleus of the thalamus .
portion of frontal lobe that overlaps the insular cortex  ( adapted from wikipedia ) 
a long process of a cns neuron ,  that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body in the superior colliculus of the midbrain towards target cells in the ventral spinal cord [ go ]  .
a regional part of brain that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a regional part of brain that is part of a intermediate hypothalamic region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
white matter structure containing axons arising from cochlear nuclear complex  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed ,  1985 ,  pg 609 ) 
a fiber bundle that runs through the medulla ,  pons and midbrain that arises in the cochlear nucleus and projects to various brainstem nuclei and ultimately the contralateral inferior colliculus of the midbrain .
a relatively small region of the hypothalamus located inferior to the hypothalamic sulcus .
the granular layer is the innermost layer of the cerebellar cortex .
part of medial lemniscus located within the pons
a portion of the cerebral cortex that ,  with the paleocortex ,  develops in association with the olfactory system ,  and which is phylogenetically older than the neocortex and lacks its layered structure .
a muscle in the manus that functions to adduct the thumb .
the caudal pontine reticular nucleus is composed of gigantocellular neurons .
a regional part of brain that is part of a midbrain tectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of the convolutions on the medial surface of the cerebral hemisphere .
the inferior surface of the temporal lobe is concave ,  and is continuous posteriorly with the tentorial surface of the occipital lobe .
a nucleus of the superior olivary complex that surrounds the primary superior olivary nuclei
in the anatomy of the brain ,  the centromedian nucleus ,  also known as the centrum medianum ,   ( cm or cm - pf )  is a part of the intralaminar nucleus  ( iln )  of the thalamus .
component of the temporal lobe on the mesial surface ,  posterior to the entorhinal cortex .
the molecular layer is the outermost layer of the cerebellar cortex .
the purkinje cell layer lies just underneath the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex .
component of the inferior frontal gyrus .defined as the first gyrus from the precentral gyrus .
one of a set of nuclei located in the posterior thalamus ,  that projects to all or nearly all extra - striate visual areas .
one of four subdivisions recognized in the primate pulvinar based on initially on topography ,  located ventrally between the medial and lateral geniculate bodies  ( carpenter ,  a core text of neuroanatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1985 ,  pg 238 ) 
the lateral posterior nucleus is a nucleus of the thalamus .
the lateral dorsal nucleus is a nucleus of the thalamus .
ventral division of medial geniculate body ,  first described by morest  ( 1964 )  in the cat ,  but found in primate ,  mouse and rat as well .
runs through the ventrolateral surface of the spinal cord .
a small muscle on the posterior aspect of the elbow joint .
part of mammillothalamic tract contained within the hypothalamus
one of the median nuclei of the thalamus ,  situated ventral and medial to the stria medullaris .
predominantly gray matter structure consisting of large multipoloar cells lying aong axons of the brachium of the superior colliculus ,  lyaing adjaent to the dorsal terminal nucleus of the accessory optic system .
component of the frontal lobe ,  lateral aspect .
the oral pontine reticular nucleus is delineated from its caudal brother ,  with which it shares its first three names .
a bundle or band of sensory nerve fibers .
fiber tract arising predominantly from neurons in the nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus in the medulla ,  projecting to thalamus .
the median raphe nucleus  ( or superior central nucleus )  is composed of polygonal ,  fusiform and pyriform neurons and exists rostral to the nucleus raphe pontis .
part of dorsal longitudinal fasciculus located in the midbrain tegmentum
the lateral parabrachial nucleus induces thirst by stimulating the median preoptic nucleus .
part of dorsal longitudinal fasciculus located within the hypothalamus
nucleus located in the pontine tegmentum containing motor neurons that innervate the muscles of the face .
the flocculonodular lobe is a lobe of the cerebellum consisting of the nodule and the flocculus .
the lobulus centralis is a small square lobule ,  situated in the anterior cerebellar notch .
the posterior fibers of the fornix ,  which continue through the hypothalamus to the mammillary bodies ;  then to the anterior nuclei of thalamus ,  which project to the cingulate cortex .
a predominantly gray matter structure of the basal telencephalon defined on the basis of nissl stain .
the subcallosal area  ( parolfactory area of broca ,  area parolfactoria )  is a small triangular field on the medial surface of the hemisphere in front of the subcallosal gyrus ,  from which it is separated by the posterior parolfactory sulcus ;  it is continuous below with the olfactory trigone ,  and above and in front with the cingulate gyrus ;  it is limited anteriorly by the anterior parolfactory sulcus .
the central lobule is a small square lobule ,  situated in the anterior cerebellar notch .
dorsal portion of the pons ,  containing cranial nervee nuclei ,  ascending and descending tracts and reticular nuclei .
the brachium of inferior colliculus  ( or inferior brachium )  carries auditory afferent fibers from the inferior colliculus of the mesencephalon to the medial geniculate nucleus .
the cingulate cortex is a part of the brain situated in the medial aspect of the cortex .
a commissure that is part of a inferior colliculus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
white matter structure in the brain consisting of fibers running along the lateral margin of the ventricular surface of the thalamus .
thalamic nucleus separated from the ventromedial part of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus by the internal medullary lamina  ( paxinos the rat nervous system 2nd ed ,  academic press ,  1995 )  .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
the thoracic nerves are the spinal nerves emerging from the thoracic vertebrae .
the horseshoe - shaped tract that connects the two olfactory bulbs .
periaqueductal gray  ( pag ;  also called the 'central gray' )  is the gray matter located around the cerebral aqueduct within the midbrain .
a nerve fiber that is part of a trigeminal nerve .
the major forebrain commissure that connects the two temporal lobes of the cortex .
pathway arising from the fastigial nucleus to the vestibular nuclei ,  reticular formation ,  motor neurons of brainstem and cervical spinal cord  ( butler and hodos ,  comparative vertebrate neuroanatomy ,  2nd ed . ,  2005 ,  pg 261 )  .
a fiber bundle containing fibers from nuclei of the hypothalamus that project to the dorsal tegmental nucleus and other regions of the midbrain and the pons ,  as well as fibers originating in the pontine reticular formation and the medullary reticular formation that project to the thalamus and other regions of the forebrain  ( carpenter - 83 )  .
white matter structure containing fibers arising from neurons in the cochlear nuclear complex
a regional part of brain that is part of a pretectal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a regional part of brain that is part of a hypothalamus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a type of cuticle composed of highly cross - linked collagens and specialised insoluble proteins known as cuticlins ,  together with glycoproteins and lipids [ wp ]  .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the embryo that develops into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
an epithelial sac of invaginated ectoderm formed from the otic placode that gives rise to the structures of the inner ear [ mp ] 
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
proliferative region that is part of the ventricular system .
a single row of glia at the dorsal midline of the developing neural tube along the entire anterior - posterior axis .
a temporary epithelium that derives from the outer layer of the ectdoerm and is shed once the inner layer differentiates to form a true epidermis .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the hypochord is a transient rod - like structure in the embryos of fish ,  lampreys and amphibians that is located immediately ventral to the notochord .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
in mammals ,  the pronephric duct is the predecessor of the wolffian duct [ wp ]  .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
organizer for gastrulation in vertebrates .
a horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue
the intermediate mesoderm is located between the lateral mesoderm and the paraxial mesoderm .
region at the periphery of the retina where retinal stem cells are located .
the second pharyngeal arch will form the hyoid apparatus .
lateral neurogenic placodes positioned dorsal of the epibranchial placodes .
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
a cranial placode which ,  once specified ,  invaginates to form an otic cup ,  which eventually separates from the surface ectoderm to form the otic vesicle or otocyst ,  a rounded structure without appar -  ent polarity .
a neurogenic placode that arises at the level of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary and develops into a trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
paired organ that connects the primitive kidney wolffian body  ( or mesonephros )  to the cloaca and serves as the anlage for certain male reproductive organs .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
focal thickenings of the embryonic ectoderm that form immediately dorsal and caudal of the clefts between the pharyngeal arches and that produce the neuroblasts that migrate and condense to form the distal cranial ganglia .
the specialized glial structure  ( non - neuronal cells )  situated at the ventral midline of the embryonic neural tube ;  this structure spans the anteroposterior axis from the midbrain to the tail regions ,  separating the left and right basal plates of the developing neural tube ,  and serves as an organizer to ventralize tissues in the embryo as well as to guide neuronal positioning and differentiation along the dorsoventral axis of the neural tube .
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become muscle cells .
trunk portion of the neural crest .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardical precursors laterally .
the ventral aorta is a blood vessel in a single - pass circulatory system that carries de - oxygenated blood from the heart to the gills .
extension of the dorsal aorta in the tail .
one of the the two paired cardinal veins draining the cephalic part of the body .
vein in the tail returning blood from the trunk and tail to the heart ,  leads directly into the posterial cardinal vein in the posterior trunk .
ventral somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton [ xao ]  .
the lateral line that is located above the eye .
the initial thyroid precursor ,  the thyroid primordium ,  starts as a simple midline thickening and develops to form the thyroid diverticulum .
an outpocketing of one of the caudal pharyngeal pouches that is comprised on calcitonin - producing parafollicular cells .
the lateral line that is located below the eye .
a lateral line that is located in the dorsal part of the organism .
median fin located on the dorsal surface of the organism .
the narrow ,  proximal portion of the optic vesicle which connects the embryonic eye and forebrain
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue composed of mesenchymal cells  ( motile cells that develop from epthelia via an epithelial to mesenchymal transition )  and surrounding extracellular material .
region located near the pronephros and pronephric ducts that is a site of hematopoiesis in the embryo .
in teleosts: anatomical cluster that is the result of fusion of preural centrum 1 with one or more adjacent ural centra [ aao ]  ;  rodlike caudal bony structure unique to anurans that lies within a compartment formed by the elongated ,  anteriorly oriented pelvic girdle .
meckel's cartilage is the bilaterally paired ,  rod - like ,  cartilaginous ventral component of the lower jar ,  or ventral mandibular arch .
 ( 1 )  the arrangement of bones which supports the jaw from the braincase ;   ( 2 )  in teleost fish ,  a large ,  usually triangular ,  bone which supports the jaw .
endochondral bone that forms from a lateral outgrowth of the basiventral arcualia and connects the rib with the vertebral centrum [ tao ]  .
anatomical cluster that forms the floor and sidewalls of the middle part of the cranium .
anatomical cluster that is located in the anterior region of the cranium and provides structural support for the olfactory organ .
subdivision of skeleton that includes all dermal bones in the cranial skeleton [ zfa , modified ]  .
the third branchial arch contributes to the development of the hyoid bone ,  stylopharyngeus muscle ,  inferior parathyroid gland ,  and thymus .
contributes to development of the cartilage of the larynx ,  laryngeal ,  pharyngeal ,  and soft palate muscles ,  superior parathyroid gland ,  and c - cells of the thymus
the 6th pharyngeal arch .contributes to the development of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the second pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the third pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the fourth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the fifth pair of pharyngeal arches in embryogenesis .
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the outermost extraembryonic membrane
a structure directly adjacent to the outer surface of the plasma membrane of an ovum .
the trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches  [ go:dph ]  .
a respiratory airway that is part of an open tracheal system .
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
ventral portion of a segment of an arthropod thorax or abdomen .
a section of the arthropod leg .
an organ involved in reproduction
a female organ involved in reproduction
a male organ involved in reproduction
an organism at the prepupal stage .
an organism at the pupal stage .
that part of the integument of an insect which surrounds the spiracles .
hardened portions of arthropod exoskeletons .
the lamella that serves as the site of attachment of the longitudinal flight muscle  [ hao ]  .
a simple visual organ of insects [ go ]  .
the ocellus that is paired [ hao ]  .
the outer layer of the procuticle of certain crustaceans and arthropods ,  which contains cuticulin ,  chitin ,  and phenolic substances that are oxidized to produce the dark pigment of the cuticle ; nthe hard and usually darkened layer of the cuticle lying between the endocuticle and epicuticle .
the inner layer of the procuticle in certain crustaceans and arthropods ,  which is almost entirely composed of protein and chitin .
barrier between the perineurium of peripheral nerves and the vascular endothelium of endoneurial capillaries .
barrier in the choroid plexus located in the lateral ,  third ,  and fourth brain ventricles that controls the entrance of substances into the cerebrospinal fluid from the blood [ mp ]  .
a median eye is an eye that is connected to a paired or unpaired median anterior neuropil of the syncerebrum by one or several median eye nerves .
any sense organ that functions in  ( some )  detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of taste  ( go:0050912 )  .
a sac - like structure that is found in the mature gland [ go ]  .
organ part that has the form of a hollow cavity [ wp ]  .
anterior portion of the palate consisting of bone and mucous membranes [ go ]  .
the posterior pituitary  ( or neurohypophysis )  comprises the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland and is part of the endocrine system .
septum that divides the ovary ,  the basal portion of a carpel or group of fused carpels ,  that encloses the ovule ( s )  [ go ]  .
septum that divides the internal chambers  ( camerae )  of the shell of a cephalopod ,  namely nautiloids or ammonoids .
one of the two embryological structures that give rise to the kidney  ( the other is the ureteric bud )  .
endochondral bones that are often elongate and arranged in rows of articulating elements ,  and form the visible part of the digits .
an extrinsic flexor muscle of the fingers at the proximal interphalangeal joints .
an extraembryonic structure that develops_from a syncytiotrophoblast and is part of a chorion .
a muscle which originates on the distal humerus ,  inserts on the radius and accomplishes supination  ( rotation of the wrist )  .
an epithelium that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the extensor pollicis longus is much larger than the extensor pollicis brevis muscle ,  the origin of which it partly covers .
an epithelium that is part of a upper jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of an anterior semicircular canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a posterior semicircular canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lateral semicircular canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a utricle of membranous labyrinth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a saccule of membranous labyrinth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cochlear duct of membranous labyrinth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial layer of the luminal surfaces of the mammary gland
an epithelium that is part of a endolymphatic sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a footplate .
an epithelium that is part of a otic placode  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that arises from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas and inserts into the under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs in an organism connected to the sternum and the vertebrae .
the neck of the rib is the flattened portion which extends lateralward from the head ;  it is about 2 .5 cm .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from endoderm and lines the yolk sac .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a thyroid primordium .
a mesenchyme that is part of a amnion .
a mesenchyme that is part of a chorion .
a calcareous tooth that is part of the upper jaw region .
a calcareous tooth that is part of the lower jaw region .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a lesser sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skeletal system that is part of a embryo  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the upper part of the mouth .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
an endothelium that is part of a trachea .
an endothelium that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the portion of the primitive mesentery that encloses the stomach ;  from its dorsal sheet ,  the greater omentum develops ,  and from its ventral sheet ,  the lesser omentum .
a mesentery that surrounds the heart .
a mesentery that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
any gland that is part of the diencephalon .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mesencephalic roof plate ,  including the caudal and rostral part of the midbrain roof
a roof plate that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a roof plate that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a roof plate that is part of a metencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a roof plate that is part of a medulla oblongata  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
a floor plate that is part of a neural tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a floor plate that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a floor plate that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a floor plate that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a floor plate that is part of a metencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a floor plate that is part of a medulla oblongata  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing testis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing ovary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from mesoderm and consists of mesenchyme .
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a incisor tooth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme of the carpal region that contributes to the carpal skeleton .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing upper jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pinna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing mammary gland .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a footplate .
a submucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the rectum .
a submucosa that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the pns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
a ganglion that is part of a central nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a midgut .
an epithelium that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a incisor tooth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a nasal septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a soft palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a submandibular gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a parotid gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a sublingual gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a endolymphatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a ductus reuniens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a uterine horn  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a vomeronasal organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hard palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
found in the right atrium of the heart ,  the fossa ovalis is an embryonic remnant of the foramen ovale ,  which normally closes shortly after birth .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pelvic appendage bud .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pectoral appendage bud .
an ectoderm that is part of a footplate .
a extraembryonic structure that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a chorion .
a cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a atrium auricular region .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pericardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a diaphragm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pleural cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a urinary system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lobar bronchus that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lobar bronchus that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a nasal septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the mucous ,  serous ,  or mixed glands that empty their secretions onto the surface of the tongue .
a gland that is part of a oropharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing mandible  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing nasal septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing soft palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing submandibular gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing parotid gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing sublingual gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing vomeronasal organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gelatinous substance within the umbilical cord ,  largely made up of mucopolysaccharides  ( hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hard palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymph node that is located in a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the encapsulated adipose tissue in the abdomen .
the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the ovaries or testes .
a nerve that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that innervates an eyelid .
any nerve that innervates the iris .
a nerve that is part of the trunk region of the body  ( not to be confused with a nerve trunk )  .
a nerve that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is located in a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an incisor tooth that is part of a upper jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an incisor tooth that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a trabecula carnea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a peyer's patch that is part of a large intestine .
nodular lymphoid structures on the serosal surface of the small intestine .
a loop of henle that is part of a inner medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the region of the forelimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
a bone that is connected via a shoulder joint  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a facial skeleton  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb region .
a bone that is part of a chondrocranium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a small sesamoid bone situated behind a condyle of the femur .
the ureteral branches of renal artery are small branches which supply the ureter .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the superior labial artery  ( superior labial branch of facial artery )  is larger and more tortuous than the inferior labial artery .
the iinferior labial artery  ( inferior labial branch of facial artery )  arises near the angle of the mouth ;  it passes upward and forward beneath the triangularis and ,  penetrating the orbicularis oris ,  runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane .
an artery that supplies blood to the cerebellum .
an artery that is part of a thoracic cavity [ cjm ]  .
one of the arteries supplying a meninix [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the upper lip .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the lower lip .
a vein that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of vein that is part of a trabecular bone tissue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of lymphoid tissue that is part of a thymus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a sebaceous gland that is part of a camera - type eye .
a sebaceous gland that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a holocrine gland of the dermis that secretes sebum into hair follicles .
a lactiferous gland that is part of the abdominal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a reticular lamina that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a reticular lamina that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a reticular lamina that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a venule that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arteriole that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a cornea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trachea .
a blood vessel that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of the arterial system .
a blood vessel that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an lymphatic vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve trunk that is part of a vagus nerve .
an alveolar duct that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an alveolar duct that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a respiratory bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a respiratory bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the regions of the brain that are largely or entirely composed of myelinated nerve cell axons and contain few or no neural cell bodies or dendrites .
a macula densa that is part of a distal convoluted tubule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibrous membrane forming the innermost of the three coverings that surrounds the brain within the cranial cavity that is firmly attached to the glial capsule .
a pia mater that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a forebrain .
a dura mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trachea .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibrous supportive tissue of the mammary gland .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lobar bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hand  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ring - shaped cartilaginous structures that support the trachea
a skin gland that is part of a camera - type eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense connective tissue which contains predominantly elastic fibers and is found in the tunica media of the aorta wall .
the type of heart connective tissue found in the endocardial layer that consists mainly of elastic fibers .
an elastic tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a circulatory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
elastic tissue layer that lines a blood vessel layer .
elastic tissue that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the middle layer of the aorta wall ,  containing the smooth muscle layer and elastic fibers .
the innermost layer of the aorta ,  containing the endothelium and an inner elastic membrane .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
2nd digit of the manus .
3rd digit of the manus .
4th digit of the manus .
5th digit of the manus .
1st digit of the hind autopod .
2nd digit of the hind autopod .
3rd digit of the hind autopod .
4th digit of the hind autopod .
5th digit of the hind autopod .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3 [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 3 [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
molars are the rearmost and most complicated kind of tooth in most mammals .
a bone that is part of a mesopodial skeleton .
any joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that attaches to an eyelid .
any muscle organ that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that attaches to a tail vertebra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a molar tooth that is part of a upper jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a molar tooth that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a small fluid - filled sac lined by synovial membrane with an inner capillary layer of slimy fluid .
the deep fascia of the thigh .
a combination of exfoliated  ( shed )  epithelial cells ,  transudated skin oils ,  and moisture .
a major stabilizing ligament in the knee that attaches the surfaces of the femur and tibia .
a collection of teeth arranged in some pattern in the mouth or other part of the body .
a tooth that is typically long and pointed and bearing a single cusp .
the portion of the tooth covered by enamel .
the central portion of the common tendon of the quadriceps femoris .
the part of a tooth that is implanted in the gum ;  the root is normally located below the neck of the tooth ,  covered by cementum rather than enamel ,  and attached by the periodontal ligament to the alveolar bone
the ventral area of the mouth .
in humans: muscles arising in the zygomatic arch that close the jaw .
the muscles of the palate are the glossopalatine ,  palatoglossus ,  levator palati ( ni )  ,  musculus uvulae ,  palatopharyngeus ,  and tensor palati ( ni )  .
a group of muscles and their tendons that act to stabilize the shoulder .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdomen proper  ( excluding the pelvic cavity )  .
fibrous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the skull are connected by sutural ligaments  ( scant amount of collagenous dense connective tissue )  .
dental alveolus  ( plural ,  alveoli )  are sockets in the jaws in which the roots of teeth are held in the alveolar process of maxilla with the periodontal ligament .
in anatomy ,  in the occipital bone ,  the foramen magnum is one of the several oval or circular apertures in the base of the skull ,  through which the medulla oblongata  ( an extension of the spinal cord )  enters and exits the skull vault .
a fold of peritoneum originating at the stomach and supporting the viscera .
the sella turcica is a saddle - shaped depression in the sphenoid bone at the base of the human skull .
a collection of sacral vertebrae in the sacral region that are fused and part of the bony pelvis .
the outermost part of the spinal canal .
any joint connecting the acromonion of the scapula and clavicle .
anatomical space in the abdominal cavity behind  ( retro )  the peritoneum .
the atlanto - axial joint is of a complicated nature ,  comprising no fewer than four distinct joints .
the metacarpophalangeal joints  ( mcp )  are of the condyloid kind ,  formed by the reception of the rounded heads of the metacarpal bones into shallow cavities on the proximal ends of the first phalanges ,  with the exception of that of the thumb ,  which presents more of the characters of a ginglymoid joint .
the metatarsophalangeal articulations are the joints between the metatarsal bones of the foot and the proximal bones of the toes  .
the tissues that surround the organs that are present within the abdominal cavity .
a joint of the pes that connects the talus and the calcaneus .
the firm fibrocartilaginous joint in the median plane between the two opposing surfaces of the pubic bones ,  which are united by an interpubic disc of fibrocartilage as well as the superior and arcuate pubic ligaments .
a synovial joint of the jaw that connects the mandible to the temporal bone .
the achilles tendon is a tendon of the posterior leg .
the passage in the lower abdominal wall through which the spermatic cord in the male or the round ligament in the female ,  nerves and vessels pass from the pelvic cavity to the scrotum or labia majora ,  respectively
passages external to the liver for the conveyance of bile .
passages within the liver for the conveyance of bile .
a small bulge in the small intestine present at birth .
either of two pairs of folds of mucous membrane projecting into the larynx .
one of the anatomic dilations of the ascending aorta ,  which occurs just above the aortic valve .
a localized dilation of the internal carotid artery at its origin ,  the common carotid artery bifurcation .
a circle of arteries that supply blood to the brain .
nutrient blood vessels which supply the walls of large arteries or veins .
the left and right brachiocephalic veins in the upper chest are formed by the union of each corresponding internal jugular vein and subclavian vein .
the cavernous sinus  ( or lateral sellar compartment )  ,  within the human head ,  is a large collection of thin - walled veins creating a cavity bordered by the temporal bone of the skull and the sphenoid bone ,  lateral to the sella turcica .
a vein arising from the splenic trabecular vein in the hilum of the spleen that drains into the portal vein .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
the major nerves supplying sympathetic innervation to the abdomen ,  including the greater ,  lesser ,  and lowest  ( or smallest )  splanchnic nerves that are formed by preganglionic fibers from the spinal cord which pass through the paravertebral ganglia and then to the celiac ganglia and plexuses and the lumbar splanchnic nerves carry fibers which pass through the lumbar paravertebral ganglia to the mesenteric and hypogastric ganglia .
a branch of the vagus nerve that supplies motor function and sensation to the larynx  ( voice box )  .
the sensory organs in muscle that are involved in the stretch reflex .
any of the rapidly adapting mechanoreceptors found in subcutaneous tissue beneath both hairy and glabrous skin ,  and which normally contain an afferent nerve fiber surrounded by a capsule with multiple concentric layers .
the floor of the anterior fossa is formed by the orbital plates of the frontal ,  the cribriform plate of the ethmoid ,  and the small wings and front part of the body of the sphenoid ;  it is limited behind by the posterior borders of the small wings of the sphenoid and by the anterior margin of the chiasmatic groove .
the lingual nerve is a branch of the mandibular nerve  ( cn v3 )  ,  itself a branch of the trigeminal nerve ,  which supplies sensory innervation to the tongue .
the compartment containing the anterior extremities and half the inferior surface of the temporal lobes  ( temporal lobe )  of the cerebral hemispheres .
the vestibular nerve is one of the two branches of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( the cochlear nerve being the other )  .
a large branch of the brachial plexus supplying various parts of the upper arm  ( as flexor muscles )  and forearm  ( as the skin )  .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine that travels to the head and neck where it innervates skin and muscle .
the twelve spinal nerves on each side of the thorax .
the intercostal nerves are the anterior divisions  ( rami anteriores ;  ventral divisions )  of the thoracic spinal nerves from t1 to t11 .
the central part of the thoracic cavity enclosed by the left and right pleurae .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
a region of the fetal urogenital sinus epithelium destined to become the prostate [ go ]  .
a bone of the metapodial skeleton
the part of the forelimb between pectoral region and the elbow ,  corresponding to the humerus .
the middle limb segment of the pelvic free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
a nerve that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle tissue that is part of the urethra .
any muscle organ that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skin of body that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of an autopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a neural tube .
epithelium that is part of a developing tooth or dental organ .
an epithelium that is part of an upper eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a thymus ,  forming a supporting framework [ mp , modified ]  .
a artery that supplies a thyroid gland .
in medicine ,  gonadal vein refers to the blood vessel that carrying blood away from the gonad  ( testis ,  ovary )  toward the heart .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a telencephalon .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a diencephalon .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a spinal cord .
a neural plate that develops_from a future spinal cord .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing gonad  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme enclosed by a dental organ that gives rise to an odontogenic papilla .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing upper eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
posterior part of a vertebra that consists of a pair of pedicles and a pair of laminae ,  and supports seven processes: four articular processes ,  two transverse processes one spinous process [ wp ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a ganglion .
a part or parts of the hippocampus that have a particular function
part of hippocampus proper bounded by ca2 and the subiculum ,  characterized by pyramidal neurons that receive projections from pyramidal neurons of ca3 via the schaffer collaterals .
part of hippocampus proper bounded by areas ca3 and ca1 ,  characterized by a narrow layer of large pyramidal cells ,  similar in size to ca3 pyramidal cells ,  but which lack the mossy fiber input from the dentate gyrus  ( adapted from paxinos ,  g . the rat central nervous system ,  2nd ed ,  academic press ,  san diego ,  1995 ,  pg .
part of hippocampus proper bounded by the hilus of the dentate gyrus and area ca2 ,  characterized by large pyramidal cells and a dense projection from dentate gyrus granule cell mossy fibers .
the last of four regions in the cornu ammonis of the hippocampus and is also part of the hilus of the dentate gyrus .
a mesentery that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical cavity that has the potential to develop into a coelemic cavity lumen .
the part of the coelom in the embryo between the somatopleuric and splanchnopleuric mesoderm ;  the principal body cavities of the trunk  ( thoracic ,  abdominal ,  and pelvic )  arise from this embryonic part of the coelom
the fluid - filled spaces formed within the mass of extraembryonic mesoderm that later fuse to become a large extraembryonic cavity
initial section of the oviduct through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus
paired ducts of the embryo that run down the lateral sides of the urogenital ridge and terminate at the mullerian eminence in the primitive urogenital sinus .
connective ,  non - functional supportive framework of a biological cell ,  tissue ,  or organ .
a cover or envelope partly or wholly surrounding a structure .
a small endodermal thickening in the foregut adjacent to the transverse septum .
portion of myotome that is ventral to the horizontal septum
any muscle organ that is part of a body wall  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of the skeletal muscles of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue in the trunk .
portion of myotome that is dorsal to the horizontal septum
a logitudinal sheet of continuous connective tissue partition developing at the apex of the chevron - shaped myotome and separating dorsal  ( epaxial )  and ventral  ( hypaxial )  body wall muscle masses ;  each is destined to become ,  respectively ,  the epaxial and hyopaxial musculature .
the part of the retina that contains neurons and photoreceptor cells [ go ]  .
an epithelial and lymphoid organ that develops as a dorsal diverticulum of the proctodeal region of the cloaca in birds .
follicle containing part of bursa of fabricius .
follicle within the plicae of bursa of fabricius .
portion of extracellular matrix between the myocardium and the endocardium .
an atrioventricular canal that is in the left side of a atrioventricular region .
an atrioventricular canal that is in the right side of a atrioventricular region .
small blood vessel similar to a capillary but with a fenestrated endothelium .
wide vessels in the spleen that drain into trabecular veins [ wp ]  .
the epithelial component of the choroid plexus .
tooth - like structure composed of chitin .
hard bony ,  calcareous ,  or chitinous organ found in the mouth or pharynx of an animal and used in procuring or masticating food .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
any endothelium that has the quality of being cylindrical  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mass of closely packed fat cells  ( adipose tissue )  surrounded by fibrous tissue septa [ tmd ]  .
an insect gland dorsal to the insect gut ,  with a function analogous to that of the vertebrate liver .
kidney mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the kidney [ go ]  .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
embryonic structure that develops into pancreatic bud .
the embryonic pancreas develops from two separate anlagen in the foregut epithelium ,  one dorsal and two ventral pancreatic buds [ pmid ]  .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the accessory pancreatic duct .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the major pancreatic duct .
layer of the retina composed of the inner segments of the photoreceptor cells .
this term was obsoleted as it was previously defined midleadingly as 'a macula that is part of a cochlea' .
a duct that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
endocardium that is part of the atrioventricular canal [ zfa , vetted ]  .
white matter that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element of chondrocranium .
a cartilage element that is part of the cranial skeleton .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pectoral fin  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pelvic fin  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
the area of the parietal lobe that integrates tactile and visual stimuli
the area of the temporal lobe concerned with hearing [ mp ]  .
the anterior portion of the narrow middle zone between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum that is located anterior to the primary fissure
the sensory system for the sense of touch and pain .
the group of nerve cell bodies located on the dorsal spinal roots within the vertebral column at the level of the fourth lumbar vertebra
the neural tissue involved in the transmission of motor signals
the placental layers where embryonic blood vessels are surrounded by trophoblast cells and maternal blood
the brain ventricles or their associated choroid plexuses
the membrane between the capillary blood and alveolar air ,  comprised of the alveolar epithelium and the capillary epithelium and their adherent basement membranes and epithelial cell cytoplasm
the lymph tissue associated with the pharyngeal opening of the auditory tube
the tubular ducts of the inner ear
the posterior concave interior of the eye ,  consisting of the retina ,  the choroid ,  the posterior segment of the sclera ,  the optic disk ,  and blood vessels ,  visible by an ophthalmoscope
the anterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
the posterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
the articulation of the squamous portion of the temporal bones with the parietal bones [ mp ]  .
the part of a molar that is covered by enamel
the structures associated with drainage of the aqueous humor from the eye ,  that include the trabecular meshwork ,  schlemm's canal ,  the uveoscleral network ,  and the aqueous veins
a transparent ,  nearly structureless innermost layer of the choroid in contact with the pigmented layer of the retina .
the layer of the epiphyseal plate where new bone matrix is deposited
an anastomosing network of delicate tubules located in the hilum of the testicle  ( mediastinum testis )  that carries sperm from the seminiferous tubules to the vasa efferentia [ wp ]  .
slender needle - like pointed projection that runs downward and slightly forward from the base of the inferior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone where it joins the tympanic portion ;  it gives attachment to the styloglossus ,  stylohyoid ,  and stylopharyngeus muscles and the stylohyoid and stylomandibular ligaments
the white matter fiber bundle that projects from the cingulate gyrus to the entorhinal cortex in the brain
the small parasympathetic ganglion that supplies nerve fibers to the lacrimal ,  nasal ,  palatine and pharyngeal glands
the ganglion that supplies nerve fibers to the parotid gland
the sympathetic ganglia located in front of the vertebral column and are associated with the major branches of the abdominal aorta ;  these include the celiac ,  aorticorenal ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ganglia
the fibers that conduct sensory nerve impulses from the viscera through the posterior dorsal roots into the spinal cord
investing bone that lies on the surface of the malleus .
the slender connective tissue fiber in the extracellular matrix of skin tissue that is composed of microfibrils and amorphous elastin and is characterized by great elasticity
the lymph nodes located outside the thoracic and abdominal cavities ,  such as the submandibular ,  prescapular ,  axillary ,  inguinal and popliteal lymph nodes
blood vessels of the layer of the placenta where embryonic and maternal blood vessels interdigitate
a bone between the frontal bones in the skull ;  an extra bony plate within the anterior fontanelle that is not usually present
fetally derived placental region that separates the maternal uterine tissue from the placenta labyrinth
one of the conchae of the ethmoid bone ,  which occupy the caudal part of the nasal fossae and form the lateral and superior portions of the turbinate bones in mammals [ mp ]  .
the upper third of the vagina .
the internal feminine genital organs ,  including the ovaries ,  uterine tubes ,  uterus ,  uterine cervix ,  and vagina .
the saccular portion of the utriculosaccular duct that normally extends from the sacculus to the endolymphatic duct
the utricular portion of the utriculosaccular duct that normally extends from the utriculus to the endolymphatic duct
the utriculo - endolymphatic  ( ue )  valve which is located in the antero - inferior wall of the utricle at the orifice of the utricular duct and serves to regulate endolymph volume in the endolymphatic sac ,  the utricle and the canals
one of a set of deep furrows which divide the lobules of the cerebellum .
primordial follicles are indiscernible to the naked eye and develop to primary ,  secondary ,  and finally mature vesicular follicles
a conical pouch formed from the upper and left angle of the right ventricle in the chordate heart ,  from which the pulmonary artery arises [ wp ]  .
the funnel - like expansion of the abdominal extremity of the uterine tube [ mp ] 
the duct that drains the anterior portion of the sublingual gland and opens at the sublingual papilla
any of the 8 - 20 small ducts that open into the mouth on the surface of the sublingual fold
the small spherical bodies of epithelial cells found in the medulla of the thymus ,  that are arranged in a concentric pattern around clusters of degenerating lymphocytes ,  eosinophils and macrophages
the dense region demarcating the thymus medulla from the surrounding cortex that is characterized by numerous blood vessels  ( predominantly arterioles )  with some perivascular connective tissue ,  mature and immature t lymphocytes ,  dendritic cells ,  variable numbers of perivascular b - lymphocytes and plasma cells ;  site of entry of bone marrow stem cells and exit of mature ,  functional t cells
the longitudinal groove in the midline of the anterior aspect of the medulla oblongata
the subclasses of motor neurons which are organized into longitudinally oriented columns that occupy distinct and ,  in some cases ,  discontinuous domains along the rostrocaudal axis of the spinal cord ;  motor neurons within a single column send their axons to a common peripheral target
the large midline opening of the posterior inferior part of the roof of the fourth ventricle that connects the fourth ventricle to the posterior cerebromedullary cistern and the spinal cord
one of the two lateral openings of the fourth ventricle into the subarachnoid space at the cerebellopontine angle [ mp ]  .
the paired channels that connect the lateral and third ventricles and allows cerebrospinal fluid produced in the lateral ventricles to flow into the third ventricles
the dorsal sacroiliac ,  the sacrotuberal and / or the iliolumbar ligaments associated with the bony ring formed by the pair of hip bones fused at the symphysis and their firm articulation with the sacrum
the irregular depression found on the posterior inner surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone just below its crest and above and lateral to the internal acoustic meatus [ mp ]  .
the arch that connects the lateral masses of the atlas anteriorly and articulates with the anterior articular facet of the dens of the axis [ mp ]  .
the larger and more lateral of the paired processes on either side of the hyoid bone [ mp ] 
shorter and more medial of the paired processes on either side of the hyoid bone [ mp ] 
the main curve of the hyoid bone ,  from which the horns extend
a sac - like structure comprising a sebaceous gland .
the region of the cerebellum that is posterior to the primary fissure and anterior to the posteriolateral fissure
the region of a cerebellar lobule that resides in either of the lateral sections of the cerebellum outside the vermis ;  in mammals ,  the vermis portion of the cerebellum has a foliation pattern along the ap axis that is distinct from the lateral cerebellar hemispheres
one of the the ten gyri of the cerebellar cortex
the paired regions of the cerebellar hemisphere that lie adjacent to the vermis and are between the vermis and lateral regions of the hemispheres ;  it receives input from the corticopontocerebellar fibers that originate from the motor cortex ,  and also receives sensory feedback from the muscles ;  these signals are integrated by this region ,  to coordinate muscle activity with motor inputs
the embryonic pseudostratified epithelium of the fourth cerebellar ventricle that eventually forms the vermis and ventral neuroepithelium
the posterior portion of the narrow middle zone between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum that is located posterior to the primary fissure
the sensory organ in muscle ;  involved in the stretch reflex and sensitive to stretch velocity
the sensory organ in muscle ;  involved in the stretch reflex and not sensitive to stretch velocity
the sensory organ in muscle that is involved in regulating muscle tension
the transient cup - like structure of the epiblast that consists of a single layer of embryonic cells
one of the folds of skin which form the inner lips on both sides of the vaginal opening
the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
the mesenchymal cells that give rise to the corneal endothelium ,  corneal stroma ,  sclera ,  iris stroma ,  ciliary muscle ,  ciliary stroma ,  and trabecular meshwork of the eye [ mp ]  .
the sensory nerve endings in the wall of the atria of the heart ,  vena cava ,  aortic arch and carotid sinus that are sensitive to changes in blood pressure
obsolete: the earliest cilia of the mouse embryo found on the cells of the embryonic node
the structure of the outer structural layer of the rodent placenta [ mp ]  .
the single layer of epithelial cells that lines the early neural tube and develops into the nervous system and into the neural crest cells
the transient proliferative population of neurons that expands exponentially during late prenatal development ;  it is a continuous germinal zone distinct from the ventricular zone that surrounds the brain ventricles [ mp ]  .
a distinct elevation of a transient proliferating cell mass of the fetal subventricular zone ;  this mass contributes most of its cells to the neocortex ;  however ,  hippocampal neurons ,  thalamus ,  septum and olfactory bulb neurons are also partly derived from the mge .
a distinct elevation of a transient proliferating cell mass of the fetal subventricular zone ;  this mass contributes most of its cells to the striatum ;  however ,  neocortex ,  thalamus ,  septum and olfactory bulb neurons are also partly derived from the lge
the caudally located ,  distinct elevation of a transient proliferating cell mass of the fetal subventricular zone ,  located adjacent to the lateral ventricle
that portion of the chorionic wall in the region of its uterine attachment ,  which gives rise to chorionic villi ;  it consists of the mesoderm that lines the chorionic vesicle and ,  on the maternal side ,  of the trophoblast that lines the intervillous spaces ;  in the last half of gestation ,  the mesodermal connective tissue is largely replaced by fibrinoid material ,  and the amnionic membrane is adherent to the fetal side of the plate .
the vascular structure encircling the anterior chamber of the eye ,  through which the aqueous humor is returned to the blood circulation
a vessel that receives aqueous humor from the sinus venosus sclerae  ( canal of schlemm ) 
mesenchymal cells derived from neural crest cells that contribute to development of the hard and soft tissue in the head and neck ,  including the branchial arches [ mp ]  .
the thin membrane that covers the podocyte filtration slit which allows small molecules such as water ,  glucose ,  and ionic salts to pass through while retaining larger macromolecules in the bloodstream
the gaps between the interdigitated foot processes of the podocyte
the fiber - like strand of fibrillin that forms the scaffold of the cutaneous elastic fibers found in the extracellular matrix of the skin
the transient outer neural tube region that contains the first generated post - mitotic neurons that receive synaptic input from thalamic axons and in turn project axons to the developing cortical plate
the retinal cone cell region which contains the machinery of the cell  ( mitochondria ,  golgi ,  endoplasmic reticulum ,  etc )  and where opsin molecules are assembled and passed to be part of the outer segment region
the retinal cone cell region in which the visual pigment rhodopsin is in invaginations of the cell membrane
the retinal rod cell region which contains the machinery of the cell  ( mitochondria ,  golgi ,  endoplasmic reticulum ,  etc )  and where opsin molecules are assembled and passed to be part of the outer segment region
the retinal rod cell region which contains stacks of membranous discs separate from the outer cell membrane that are rich in the visual pigment rhodopsin
the region of the developing mammalian cortex that extends between the ventricular zone and the cortical plate  ( cp )  ;  normally ,  the iz is a region of tangential migration of cells ,  and at midgestation ,  the lower part of the iz develops into the subventricular zone
the nodules of small undifferentiated b lymphocytes and follicular dendritic cells located in the spleen white pulp
the nodules of antigen - activated ,  differentiating b cells ,  follicular dendritic cells ,  antigen - presenting t cells and macrophages in the spleen white pulp
the spherical enlargement at the base of each semicircular canal where they connect with the utricle ,  containing the crista ampullaris which detects movement of the fluid within the canals
the extraembryonic tissue that is responsible for the proper orientation of the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo and for appropriate patterning of adjacent embryonic tissue
the extension of the hindgut of the primitive digestive tube of the embryo ,  caudal to the location of the anal opening
the mesendoderm which first migrates from the node and which gives rise to the gut
the enclosed space where the arachnoid membrane stretches between the two temporal lobes and encloses the cerebral peduncles including the structures contained in the interpeduncular fossa
the space located on lateral aspects of the pons at the junction with the celebellum
the largest of the subarachnoid cisterns between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata ;  it is divided into a posterior cerebellomedullary cistern located between the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla  ( also called cisterna magna )  ,  and a lateral cerebellomedullary cistern located between the cerebellum and the lateral aspect of the medulla .
the widening portions of the subarachnoid space within the cranium where the arachnoid bridges over a depression on the surface of the brain
the space between the cerebellum and the lateral aspect of the medulla
the enclosed space extending forward between the corpus callosum and the thalamus that contains the internal cerebral veins
the external masculine genital organs ,  including the penis and scrotum
the internal masculine genital organs ,  including the testes ,  epididymides ,  deferent ducts ,  seminal vesicles ,  prostate ,  ejaculatory ducts ,  and bulbourethral glands
the small depression in the primitive streak that is caudal to the primitive node where the cells of the epiblast initially begin to invaginate during early embryogenesis
the shallow valley that extends along the length of the primitive streak [ mp ] 
the skeletal muscle fiber structure comprised of the transverse tubule and the two associated terminal cisternae ;  each fiber normally has thousands of triads
one of the fine terminal elements of the bile duct system ,  leaving the portal canal ,  and pursuing a course at the periphery of a lobule of the liver [ bto ]  .
the subclasses of motor neurons which project their axons to axial muscles that lie close to the vertebral column ;  motor neurons in the lateral subdivision of the mmc project their axons to body wall muscles
the layer of undifferentiated ,  proliferating cells that line the neural tube lumen that is the immediate transformation of the germinal neuroepithelium
the layer of glia and differentiating neurons that forms as a second layer around the germinal neuroepithium ;  as this develops it comes to lie between the ventricular and marginal layers and includes the basal and alar plates .
the outermost layer of the neural tube that consists of axons from the developing mantle layer and will form the white matter
the region of the mantle layer of the neural tube that lies dorsal to the sulcus limitans and contains primarily sensory neurons and interneurons involved in communication of sensory impulses ;  the alar plate develops into the dorsal horn in the grey matter of the spinal cord
the region of the mantle layer of the neural tube that lies ventral to the sulcus limitans and contains primarily motor neurons and interneurons .
the unpaired embryonic prominence that is formed by the tissues surrounding the forebrain vesicle and develops into the forehead and bridge of the nose / snout .
the lateral area of the two branches of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it separates the olfactory pit from the developing eye and the ala of the nose / snout develops from it
the central area of the two limbs of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling that lie medial to the olfactory placode or pit in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it joins with the ipsilateral maxillary prominence in the formation of half of the upper jaw ,  and the nasal tip and philtrum of the upper lip develop from it
the forebrain region that coordinates sensory signaling arising from the vomeronasal organ ;  it is located on the dorsal - posterior portion of the main olfactory bulb ,  and the axons that leave the accessory olfactory bulb project to targets in the amygdala and hypothalamus
the region of a cerebellar lobule that resides in the central section of the cerebellum between the two hemispheres .
the nucleus composed of the globose and emoliform nuclei of the cerebellum ;  in some mammalian species the globose nucleus is not distinguishable
the uvula  ( uvular lobe )  forms a considerable portion of the inferior vermis ;  it is separated on either side from the tonsil by the sulcus valleculc& ,  at the bottom of which it is connected to the tonsil by a ridge of gray matter ,  indented on its surface by shallow furrows ,  and hence called the furrowed band .
one of the folds of skin which form the inner lips  ( labia minora )  and outer lips  ( labia majora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
one of the folds of skin which form the outer lips on both sides of the vaginal opening
one of the system of communicating cavities in the brain that are continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord ,  that like it are derived from the medullary canal of the embryo ,  that are lined with an epithelial ependyma ,  and that contain a serous fluid
any of the veins that carries deoxygenated blood from a part of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
the subdivision of the face that includes the eye  ( eyeball plus adnexa such as eyelids )  and the orbit of the skull and associated parts of the face such as the eyebrows ,  if present
the middle of the face including the nose and its associated bony structures [ mw ]  .
the toothlike process on the upper surface of the axis ,  which articulates with the atlas above [ gaid ]  .
joint cavity shared by all the joints of the elbow .
the collecting duct system of the kidney consists of a series of tubules and ducts that connect the nephrons to the ureter .
one of the two jaw ridges either on the roof of the mouth between the upper teeth and the hard palate or on the bottom of the mouth behind the lower teeth [ wp ]  .
anatomical line demarcating the boundary between forehead and scalp .
region beneath a nail or claw .
horizontal piece of cartilage located outside the ear canal that divides the upper and lower parts of the ear .
part of the cranium ,  the clivus is a shallow depression behind the dorsum sellc& that slopes obliquely backward .
the outer or sperficial part of the humerus .
an anatomical cavity that is the combination of the cavity between the nares and the choanae [ hp , modified ]  .
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a muscle of the tympanic cavity that attaches to an auditory ossicle .
small cavity surrounding the bones of the middle ear .
a blood vessel that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an internal pocketing of pharyngeal endoderm that contacts a region of ectoderm  ( a pharyngeal cleft )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions with the pharyngeal arches .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
any of the layers of the myocardium .
the layer of the myocardium composed of projections of contractile myocytes .
outer dense layer of the myocardium uniting the epicardium and myocardium [ mp ]  .
a myocardium trabecular layer that is part of a cardiac ventricle .
the outer layer the ventricular myocardium ,  muscle fibers are arranged in a compact form and involved the entire ventricle .
the optic vesicle is the evagination of neurectoderm that precedes formation of the optic cup [ go ]  .
cartilage that will provide a scaffold for mineralization of endochondral bones as they elongate or grow .
a cortical cell layer of the cerebellum .
the sensory trigeminal nerve nuclei are the largest of the cranial nerve nuclei ,  and extend through the whole of the midbrain ,  pons and medulla .
in mammals ,  the proximal tubule is a nephron tubule that connects bowman's capsule to the loop of henle .
the distal tubule is a nephron tubule that consists of the distal convoluted tubule and distal straight tubule segments
the intermediate tubule is a nephron tubule that lies between the proximal and distal tubules
the somitomeric trunk muscle is derived from somitomeric mesoderm .
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
the outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract
the outflow tract is the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the arteries
the his - purkinje system receives signals from the av node and is composed of the fibers that regulate cardiac muscle contraction in the ventricles
vein of heart that drains the myocardium
a heart valve located between the ventricle and bulbus arteriosus .
vestigial cardiac valve which is continuous with the valve of the inferior vena cava [ fma ]  .
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
the bulbus arteriosus is an elastic heart chamber [ go ]  .
endocardial cushions project into the atrial canal ,  and ,  meeting in the middle line ,  unite to form the septum intermedium which divides the canal into two channels ,  the future right and left atrioventricular orifices [ gray's via wp ]  .
in the developing heart ,  the cavity of the primitive atrium becomes subdivided into right and left chambers by a septum ,  the septum primum ,  which grows downward into the cavity .
an embryonic group of progenitor cells that forms from an outpouching of the septum transversum near the venous pole of the heart and gives rise to the epicardium
a thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo ,  forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions .
the pulmonary myocardium is the myocardial tissue present in the pulmonary vein
portions of the midgut that are derived from ectoderm .
a jaw muscle that arises from cranial mesenchyme and is innervated by cranial nerves .
the region of the cerebral cortex covering the basal surface of the frontal lobes ;  this region normally controls emotion and decision making
the band of nerve fibers which cross the midline of the spinal cord ventral to the central canal and posterior grey commissure [ mp ]  .
the trigeminothalamic tract is one of the major routes of nociceptive and temperature signaling from the face
axon tract that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body in the pons towards target cells in the spinal cord .
axon tract that carries efferent  ( outgoing )  action potentials from the cell body in the medulla towards target cells in the spinal cord [ go ]  .
joint in the leg .for example the knee ,  which separates the leg tibia and femur
the internal genitalia are the internal sex organs such as the uterine tube ,  the uterus and the vagina in female mammals ,  and the testis ,  seminal vesicle ,  ejaculatory duct and prostate in male mammals
the external genitalia are the outer sex organs ,  such as the penis or vulva in mammals
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue located in the wall of the aorta
a saclike structure of the prostate gland ,  comprised of at least three cell layers: an innermost layer of secretory columnar luminal epithelium ,  a middle layer of squamous basal epithelium that also contains neuroendocrine cells ,  transit amplifying cells ,  and stem cells ,  and an outer layer of smooth muscle intermixed with other stromal cells
the mammary fat is an adipose structure in the gland that is invaded by the mammary ducts
the solid cord of epithelial cells that emerges from the mammary bud and grows down from the primary mammary mesenchyme and into a second stromal compartment ,  the fat pad precursor ,  beneath the dermis .
the embryonic vessels grow through the layer to come in close contact with the maternal blood supply
the prostate gland stroma is made up of the mesenchymal or fibroblast cells of the prostate gland
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
the mitral cell layer is composed of pyramidal neurons whose cell bodies are located between the granule cell layer and the plexiform layer
the harderian gland is an anterior orbital gland usually associated with the nictitating membrane ,  and produces and secretes a variety of substances to the eye ,  depending upon the species [ go ]  .
the glomerular epithelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the outer surfaces of the glomerulus .
the glomerular endothelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the internal surfaces of the glomerulus
the glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the glomerulus
a sub - portion of the loop of henle in the nephron of the kidney that is permeable to ions but not to water
long nephrons are associated with juxtamedullary glomeruli and extend to the inner medulla
short nephrons are associated with mid - cortical glomeruli ,  and have no short ascending limb ,  so the limb is situated in the outer medulla
the s1 portion is the initial portion of the proximal convoluted tubule and is responsible for avid reabsorption of water and solutes [ go ]  .
the s2 portion of the tubule is involved in reabsorption of water and sodium chloride [ go ]  .
the comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of the nephron
the s - shaped body is the successor of the comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of the nephron
kidney pyramids are the conical arrangements of tubules that constitute the renal medulla in a multi - lobed mammalian kidney ;  they contain the loops of henle and the medullary collecting ducts .
the inner stripe is a deep ,  centrally located portion of the renal outer medulla and is traversed by thick and thin portions of nephron tubules
the outer stripe is the region of the kidney that lies distal to the line of termination of the straight renal tubules
the cortical collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex
the outer medullary collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that lies in the renal outer medulla
the inner medullary collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that lies in the renal inner medulla
the long descending thin limb bend is a part of the descending thin limb of a long nephron that lies beyond the prebend segment
the prebend segment is a part of the descending thin limb that lies before the bend and exhibits robust sodium chloride reabsorption
nephrogenic mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the nephron
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells .
the nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron
the small branching blood vessels in the kidney glomerulus that receives blood from the kidney afferent arterioles ;  these capillaries are under high pressure for filtering within the glomerulus
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the urothelium of the kidney pelvis
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a trigone of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lymphatic vessel  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a mammary gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a spleen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the dorsal region of an animal .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb digit .
a bone that is part of a forelimb digit .
a bone that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb zeugopod  ( lower arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb stylopod  ( upper arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod  ( lower leg )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pericardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cranial suture that is part of a cartilaginous joint  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a lateral ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a third ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a fourth ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
an anatomical structure found in mollusks and used for feeding .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a cone - like structure that is formed when myocardial progenitor cells of the heart field fuse at the midline .
dense connective tissue that separates the atria from the ventricles and provides physical support for the heart .
a nerve that is part of a parasympathetic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a glomerular capillary .
a nerve trunk that is part of a sympathetic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymphatic vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
distal - most phalanx within a digit .
a phalanx located between proximal and distal phalanges .
proximal - most phalanx within a digit .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a hand digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a hand digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a hand digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a foot digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a foot digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
upper part of skull ,  consisting of parietals ,  frontals ,  post - parietals ,  and in some species the squamosal and a portion of the alisphenoid
a membranous sac that develops from the posterior part of the alimentary canal in the embryos of mammals ,  birds ,  and reptiles ,  and it is important in the formation of the umbilical cord and placenta in mammals [ vhog ]  .
the primitive streak is a structure that forms during the early stages of avian ,  reptilian and mammalian embryonic development [ wp ]  .
any of the four veins in the developing vertebrate embryo which run along each side of the vertebral column
outermost layer of cells in the blastodermic vesicle ,  which will develop into the trophoblast layer and then contact the endometrium and take part in establishing the embryo's means of nutrition
embryonic structures which begin as undifferentiated mesenchyme attaching to the caudal end of the gonads .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb .
the embryonic structure that gives rise to the corneal ectoderm
an inguinal canal that is part of a female organism .
an inguinal canal that is part of a male organism .
multilayered ectodermal region at the distal tip of a limb or fin bud necessary for the proper development of the underlying mesenchyme [ mp , modified ]  .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb or paired fin .
the head of the epididymis
the body of the epididymis
the tail of the epididymis
the fibrous cord that connects the tip of the styloid process of the temporal bone to the lesser horn of the hyoid bone
the first of the series of pharyngeal arches that develop into jaw bones or their homologs ,  and their associated nerves and arteries
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
thickened trophoblast of the blastocyst in rodents that becomes the fetal portion of the placenta
blood vessel that is connected to the yolk sac .
layer of the endoderm of the extraembryonic tissue .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer found between the substantia propria and the endothelial layer of the cornea [ mp ]  .
a continuous cartilaginous formation in mesenchyme of the second pharyngeal arch in the embryo .
an nonvascular extraembryonic basement membrane that forms on the inner surface of the trophectoderm during placenta morphogenesis and is secreted by the distal parietal endoderm ;  required for the maternofetal exchange of nutrients and is important for the postgastrulation development [ mp ]  .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer ,  6 to 9 um thick ,  lying between the basal lamina of the outer layer of stratified epithelium and the substantia propria of the cornea ;  it is considered to be a basement membrane .
vascular network that is connected to the yolk sac .
a bone that is part of an appendage  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a fin  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metaphysis that is in the distal side of a diaphysis .
a metaphysis that is in the proximal side of a diaphysis .
an epiphysis that is on the distal side of the bone .
an epiphysis that is on the proximal side of the bone .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb .
an epiphysis that is part of a humerus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a tibia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a radius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of an ulna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a fibula  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a distal epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a proximal epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a periosteum that is part of a epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a humerus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a tibia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a radius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a ulna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a fibula  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper extremity of the humerus  ( proximal humerus )  consists of a large rounded head joined to the body by a constricted portion called the neck ,  and two eminences ,  the greater and lesser tubercles .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a radius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 1 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 2 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 3 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 4 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 5 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manual digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manual digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manual digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of three main pairs of arteries and their branches ,  which irrigate the cerebrum of the brain .
a laterally paired vein that drains blood away from the lesser curvature of the stomach .
a vertebra in the trunk or cervical region .
a mesopodium that is part of a manus .
a metapodium region that is part of a manus .
mesopodial segment of the pes ,  including the tarsal skeleton and associated tissues .
an embryo at the neurula stage .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
either a cavity lining or the space it encloses .
any collection of skeletal muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a body wall  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg  /  thigh )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower leg or upper leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the collection of muscles that acts on the pharynx .
any collection of muscles that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the musculature of the body in the pectoral girdle region .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
any collection of muscles that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the hip skeleton .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the shoulder skeleton .
the collection of muscles that are part of the larynx .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a perineum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a interatrial septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a cardiac septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a myocardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a papillary muscle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a diaphragm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a iliacus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a gluteus maximus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a quadriceps femoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a tibialis anterior  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a deltoid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a teres major  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a biceps brachii  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a digastric  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a mylohyoid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a orbicularis oculi  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a masseter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a temporalis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a levator palpebrae superioris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a trapezius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a pectoralis major  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a rectus abdominis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a supraspinatus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a internal intercostal muscle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a transversus thoracis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is attached to a vertebra of the vertebral column .
any muscle organ that is part of a anal part of perineum .
a portion of striated muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a papillary muscle that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a papillary muscle that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of trabecula carnea cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of trabecula carnea cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thickened ridge of bone that contains the tooth sockets on the maxilla .
the thickened ridge of bone that contains the tooth sockets on the mandible .
a projection or outgrowth of tissue from a larger body or organ .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone tissue .
a testis that is in the left side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a testis that is in the right side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a network of blunt ended vessels lacking direct connection to the blood vascular system .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
a kidney that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a kidney that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the layer of secretory cells which lines the epididymis
any of the series of white matter fiber tracts in the brain that run between the most lateral segment of the lentiform nucleus and the claustrum ;  the white matter of the external capsule contains fibers known as corticocortical association fibers which are responsible for connecting the cerebral cortex to another cortical area ;  the capsule appears as a thin white sheet of white matter and provides a route for cholinergic fibers from the basal forebrain to the cerebral cortex ;  it eventually joins the internal capsule around the lentiform nucleus .
a zone of the ethmoid that is received into the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone and roofs in the nasal cavities .
the layer of uterine endometrium overlying the implanted chorionic vesicle and facing the uterine cavity
an eye that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thick circular layer of smooth gastric musculature encircling the gastroesophageal junction that functions to reduce backflow into the esophagus from the stomach
an artery that is part of a digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a digital artery that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a digital artery that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any vein containing deoxygenated blood that is located in a finger or toe .
a digital vein that is part of a forelimb .
a digital vein that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the arterial system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all arteries .
an artery of the systemic circulation ,  which is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart ,  to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
a structure ,  usually a circular muscle ,  that normally maintains constriction of a natural body passage or orifice and which relaxes as required by normal physiological functioning .
the first rib of the rib cage
the second rib of the rib cage
the third rib counting from the top of the rib cage down .
the fourth rib counting from the top of the rib cage down .
the fifth rib counting from the top of the rib cage down .
the sixth rib counting from the top of the rib cage down .
the seventh rib counting from the top of the rib cage down .
the ninth rib counting from the top of the rib cage down .
the tenth rib has only a single articular facet on its head .
the eleventh rib has a single articular facet on the head ,  which is of rather large size .
in humans: the twelfth rib has a single articular facet on the head ,  which is of rather large size .
the third of the seven cervical vertebrae [ ncit , modified ]  .
the fourth of the seven cervical vertebrae [ ncit , modified ]  .
the fifth of the seven cervical vertebrae [ ncit , modified ]  .
the sixth of the seven cervical vertebrae [ ncit , modified ]  .
vertebra prominens is the proper name for the seventh cervical vertebra .
the first lumbar vertebra counting from the top down .
the second lumbar vertebra counting from the top down .
the third lumbar vertebra counting from the top down .
the fourth lumbar vertebra counting from the top down .
the fifth lumbar vertebra counting from the top down .
the first thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
the second thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
the third thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
the fourth thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
the fifth thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
the sixth thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
the seventh thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
the ninth thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
the tenth thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
the eleventh thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
the twelfth thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
the capsule surrounding the inner ear mechanism .
an endothelium that lines the blood vasculature .
the blood vessels that branch from the kidney interlobular artery ,  convey blood to the glomerular capillaries ,  and play an important role in the regulation of blood pressure as a part of the tubuloglomerular feedback mechanism
the blood vessels that convey blood from the glomerulocapillary network to the capillary bed of the proximal convoluted tubule
the connective tissue that surrounds the spleen
an ependyma that is part of a third ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ependyma that is part of a lateral ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ependyma that is part of a fourth ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial lining of the luminal space of the urinary bladder .
the infraorbital artery is an artery in the head that runs in the maxilla ,  emerging through the infraorbital foramen ,  just under the orbit of the eye .
the polygonal structure of the liver that consists of hepatocytes radiating outward from a hepatic vein
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a esophagus .
the process projecting downward from either side of the sphenoid bone ,  in vertebrates divided into two plates ,  an inner and an outer  ( sometimes called the lateral and medial )  ;  the posterior nares pass through the space ,  called the pterygoid fossa ,  between the processes
a keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
the triangular ridge on the dorsal aspect of the scapula which separates the supra -  from the infraspinatous fossa and where the trapezius and deltoid muscles are attached
the body or shaft of the humerus is almost cylindrical in the upper half of its extent ,  prismatic and flattened below ,  and has three borders and three surfaces .
the temporal process of the zygomatic bone ,  directed backward and medialward ,  is concave ,  presenting medially a rough ,  triangular area ,  for articulation with the maxilla ,  and laterally a smooth ,  concave surface ,  the upper part of which forms the anterior boundary of the temporal fossa ,  the lower a part of the infratemporal fossa .
the zygomatic process of the temporal bone is a long ,  arched process projecting from the lower part of the squamous portion of the temporal bone .
articular part of the mandible bone
a dorsal process on the lower jaw associated with muscle attachment .
two broad plates directed dorsomedially from the pedicles ;  these fuse at the dorsal midline ,  and complete the dorsal wall of the vertebral foramen
an anatomical wall that is part of an aorta ,  enclosing the luminal space .
the outermost layer of the aorta wall ,  containing connective tissue and collagen and elastic fibers
a muscular coat that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the membranous portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
the muscular portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
one of: the 4th ventricle median or lateral apertures .
the thin epithelium - like membrane composed of ependymal cells that lines the ventricular system of the brain and the spinal cord .
the portion of the frontal lobe medial to the medial orbital gyrus is named the gyrus rectus  ( or straight gyrus )  ,  and is continuous with the superior frontal gyrus on the medial surface .
part of the lateral ventricle that extends posteriorly into the occipital lobe .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a trigeminal nerve .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a facial nerve .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a hypoglossal nerve .
a triangular field that is a lateralward projection of the postero - lateral part of the anterior column [ wp ,  modified by cjm ]  .
the band of grey substance spanning the midline of the spinal cord that surrounds the central canal
the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus that is bounded by the pial surface superficially and the dentate gyrus granule cell layer deep .
part of fornix adjacent to the crura where they join together at the midline underneath the corpus callosum
the sensory system for the sense of balance .
fan shaped white matter mass comprised of afferent and efferent fibers from the cerebral cortex arranged in radially arrayed bundles ,  converging towards the internal capsule  ( carpenter ,  core text of neuroanatomy ,  3rd ed ,  1985 ,  pg .
a transitional zone between the presubiculum and the entorhinal area in the mouse  ( paxinos - 2001 )  ,  the rat  ( swanson - 1998 )  and the primate  ( zilles - 1990 )  .
the raphe nuclei are thin plates of cells in and immediately adjacent to the sagittal plane .
the term  \ "middle temporal visual area \ " was first used by allman and kaas  ( 1971 )  for a region of the owl monkey brain located on the  \ "caudal third of the middle temporal gyrus . \ " functionally ,  it contains  \ "a complete representation of the contralateral half of the visual field . . .
peritoneum connecting the greater curvature of stomach with the hilum of the spleen [ umich ]  .
peritoneum that attaches the spleen to the posterior abdominal wall over the left kidney .
the costocervical trunk arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery ,  behind the scalenus anterior on the right side ,  and medial to that muscle on the left side .
the nasofrontal vein is a vein in the eye which drains to the superior ophthalmic vein .
a vein running parallel to the superior and inferior pancreatico - duodenal arteries that drains blood from the pancreas and duodenum into the superior mesenteric or portal veins .
a bodily secretion that is produced by a bulbourethral gland .
an epithelium that is part of an external naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the specialized epithelium of the peyer's patch
an epithelium that is part of a harderian gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
area of the peyer's patch where b cells proliferate and differentiate into plasma cells
an endothelium that is part of a vena cava  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a depression or hollow in a bone [ wp ]  .
an opening in the skull or other bones [ wp ]  .
a transient fetal dilation of the distal  ( or cranial )  heart tube located where the arterial trunk joins the ventral roots of the aortic arches
a stage that follows the blastula ,  gastrula and neurula stages .
an appendage that is part of an appendage girdle complex .
paired appendage that consists of the posterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pelvic girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
paired appendage that consists of the anterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pectoral girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
the jugular veins are veins that bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava .
one of the columns of erectile tissue forming the dorsum and sides of the penis .
a triangular double membrane ,  consisting of glial cells and fibers  ( heimer ,  1996 )  separating the anterior horns of the lateral ventricles of the brain .
the ring of fibrocartilage and fibrous tissue forming the circumference of the intervertebral disc ;  surrounds the nucleus pulposus ,  which is prone to herniation when the annulus fibrosus is compromised .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
brodmann area 29 ,  also known as granular retrolimbic area 29 or granular retrosplenial cortex ,  is a cytoarchitecturally defined portion of the retrosplenial region of the cerebral cortex .
any of the veins that parallel the arcuate arteries ,  receive blood from the interlobular veins and straight venules ,  and terminate in the interlobar veins .
a subregion of the cerebellar cortex ,  consisting of the most medial zone of the cerebellar cortex ,  stradding the midline .
the crista ampullaris is the sensory organ of rotation located in the semicircular canal of the inner ear .
the deep cervical lymph nodes are a group of cervical lymph nodes found near the internal jugular vein .
the branches of the arcuate arteries of the kidney that radiate outward throught the renal columns and supply the glomeruli [ mp ]  .
the medial palpebral ligament  ( tendo oculi )  ,  about 4 mm .
the subdivision of the laminated olfactory cortex with only three main layers that receive monosynaptic input from the olfactory bulb via the lateral olfactory tract ;  it is located bilaterally in the ventrolateral forebrain and is commonly divided into anterior and posterior regions
in the blood supply of the kidney ,  the vasa recta renis  ( or straight arteries of kidney ,  or straight arterioles of kidney )  form a series of straight capillaries in the medulla .
a nerve in the head that carries signals from the cochlea of the inner ear to the brain .
amphibian larvae ,  sometimes called pollywogs or tadpoles ,  hatch from eggs and begin to grow limbs and other adult physical features at various times ,  depending on the species ,  before they metamorphose into the adult form .
nematode larval development begins with the newly hatched first - stage larva  ( l1 )  and ends with the end of the last larval stage  ( for example the fourth larval stage  ( l4 )  in c . elegans )  .
this begins with the newly hatched first - instar larva ,  through its maturation to the end of the last larval stage .
a transverse unitary subdivision of the neural tube that shares a common dorsoventral structure  ( floor ,  basal ,  alar ,  and roof plates )  ,  but each having differential molecular identities and fates ;  they comprise the secondary prosencephalon ,  diencephalon  ( prosomeres )  ,  the midbrain  ( mesomeres )  ,  and the hindbrain  ( rhombomeres )  .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an organ subunit that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the gastrula stage .
the cavity of a gastrula forming a primitive gut .
glomerulus of the mature vertebrate kidney ,  or metanephros .
a collecting duct of renal tubule that is part of a metanephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
juxtaglomerular apparatus of the mature vertebrate kidney ,  or metanephros .
the glomus forms from the splanchnic intermediate mesoderm and is the vascularized filtration unit ,  filtering the blood before it enters the tubules .
a basibranchial element that is bone .
dermal bone on the margin of the scapula .
the dentary is a dermal bone that forms the antero - lateral part of the lower jaw in fishes and amphibians ,  extending to the whole lower jaw in mammals [ vhog , modified ]  .
endochondral bone that is paired and forms part of the socket for the humerus in tetrapods and acts as base of the pectoral fin in fish .
a tooth -  or denticle - covered plate which is attached to the sphenoid stem [ palaeos ]  .
paired ,  endochondral bones forming the anterior ,  and lateral walls of the otic capsules .
endochondral bone that is located at the dorsal part of the occipital region of the cranium or the dorso - posterior part of the skull [ tap , modified ]  .
a small ,  circular ,  white spot  ( approximately 2 - 3 mm across )  on the surface of the yellow yolk of an egg that has been laid .
a layer of cells formed at one pole of macrolecithal eggs such as the yolky egg of birds .
the dorsal component of the mandibular arch
skeletal element that consists of the scapula and the coracoid [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
an anatomical space in the fetal heart that allows blood to enter the left atrium from the right atrium .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
dermis - derived entity that is made of skeletal tissue .
an evagination of the terminal portion of the intestine that is capable of secreting high concentrations of excess sodium chloride .
an organ for excreting excess salts .
a salt gland located in the cranium or head region .
a gland that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primitive cartilagionous skeletal structure of the fetal skull that grows to envelop the rapidly growing embyonic brain .
replacement bone tissue that forms within cartilage [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
bone tissue that forms directly within mesenchyme ,  and does not replace other tissues [ tao ]  .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
a bone that is part of a cranium .
a tooth that is on the vomer .
any bone that is part of the lower jaw skeleton .
subdivision of long bone which forms the part of the bone between the two epiphyses ,  excluding the metaphyses [ fma , modified ]  .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
opening / conduit between the nasal cavity and the nasopharynx [ aao ]  the choanae are separated by the vomer [ wp ]  .
the tarsi  ( tarsal plates )  are two comparatively thick ,  elongated plates of dense connective tissue ,  about 2 .5 cm .
an eyelid tarsus that is part of a upper eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eyelid tarsus that is part of a lower eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasa recta that is part of a outer medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasa recta that is part of a inner medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
a lamina propria that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a cardiac ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
a mucosa that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
an urothelium that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial lining of the luminal space of the kidney pelvis
a mucous gland that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucous gland that is part of the skin .
the thymic connective tissue which extends into the parenchyma
a secretion that is part of a endocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a exocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bodily secretion that is produced by the prostate gland .
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
a basal lamina that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a basal lamina that is part of a respiratory airway  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a basal lamina that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
an epithelium that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a oviduct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a salivary gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the renal tubule luminar surfaces
an epithelium that is part of an endometrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a prepuce of penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the stratified epithelial lining of the seminiferous tubules ,  consisting of the developing spermatozoa and the supporting sertoli cells ,  which are tall ,  columnar type cells that line the tubule
an epithelium that is part of a upper respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lacrimal gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a terminal bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the kidney luminar surfaces
any epithelium that lines one of the bile ducts .
the epithelial layer of the alveoli [ mp ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a extrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a intrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a band of ectodermal cells growing from the epithelium of the embryonic jaws into the underlying mesenchyme and giving rise to the primordia of the enamel organs of the teeth .
a medulla that is part of a thyroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle tissue in all or part of a hepatic duct .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a epididymis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a lymph node  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
an endothelium that is part of the cardiovascular system .
a mesentery that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a connective tissue that surrounds a skeletal muscle tissue .
a gland that is part of a eye .
an alveolus that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an alveolus that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a sympathetic nerve trunk that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
dermal bone that covers the otic region and may articulate with its antimere medially ,  with the frontal bone anteriorly ,  the pterotic laterally ,  the supraoccipital medio - posteriorly ,  and the epiotic and extrascapula latero - posteriorly .
dermal bone that bears part of the supraorbital canal and usually covers a large area of the neurocranium occupying part of the ethmoidal ,  orbitosphenoid ,  and otic regions .
anatomical cavity bounded by the orbital region of the cranium and forming the location of some or all of the eye .
a layer of tissue in the eye of many vertebrate animals ,  that lies immediately behind or sometimes within the retina .
a part of the epithalamus present in some animal species .
a group of nodes lying along the external jugular vein ;  they drain the skin and superficial structures over the region of the sternocleidomastoid muscle and anterior cervical regions .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the future body wall  -  underlies the ectoderm [ wp ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the inner  ( or splanchnic )  layer adheres to the endoderm ,  and with it forms the splanchnopleure [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the outer  ( or somatic )  layer becomes applied to the inner surface of the ectoderm ,  and with it forms the somatopleure .
a portion of the urogenital ridge which is the source of much of the urinary system [ wp ]  .
one of of the pair of folds derived from the cloacal folds which give rise to a portion of the external genitalia ;  in male embryos they close over the urethral plate and fuse to form the spongy  ( penile )  urethra and ventral aspect of the penis ,  not including the glans ;  failure of fusion of the urethral folds leads to hypospadias ;  in female embryos they fuse only anterior to the anus and form the labia minora [ mp ]  .
visceral endoderm ,  a population of extraembyonic endoderm ,  is an extraembryonic tissue that functions in a regulatory capacity but does not contribute directly to the formation of any adult organs [ pmid:15905405 ]  .
precursors of the anterior visceral endoderm that arises at the distal tip of the embryo [ mp ] 
belt - like region of presumptive mesoderm at the equator of the late blastula .
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
thickened layer of skin surrounding fingernails and toenails .
the mass of tissue made up of mesenchymal cells in the lung .
the mass of tissue composed of mesenchymal cells in the lobar bronchus . .
an anatomical cavity ,  depression or pit where structures are attached .
a depression on the surface of the lung where the bronchus ,  blood vessels and nerves enter .
a lung hilus that is part of the left lung .
a lung hilus that is part of the right lung .
vasculature that is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs
a specialized lobe of the right lung that extends to the left side of the organism
the lobar bronchus alveolar system is where molecules of oxygen and carbon dioxide are passively exchanged ,  by diffusion ,  between the gaseous environment and the blood in the lobar bronchus
a the thin septum that separates adjacent pulmonary alveoli ,  containing connective tissue constituents of the respiratory tissue and the capillary network of the blood supply of the lung .
a wall that contains the alveoli
alveolar smooth muscle is a type of non - striated muscle ,  found within the walls of the alveolus
the right lung accessory lobe lobar bronchus is the major airway within the right lung accessory lobe that starts at the division of the bronchus on the right side and ends at the point of its own subdivision into tertiary or segmental bronchi
the right lung accessory lobe lobar bronchus mesenchyme is a type of tissue made up of loosely - packed mesenchymal cells in the right lung accessory lobe lobar bronchus
the right lung cranial lobe lobar bronchus mesenchyme is a type of tissue made up of loosely - packed mesenchymal cells in the right lung cranial lobe lobar bronchus
the right lung middle lobe lobar bronchus mesenchyme is a type of tissue made up of loosely - packed mesenchymal cells in the right lung middle lobe lobar bronchus
the right lung lobar bronchus mesenchyme is a type of tissue made up of loosely - packed mesenchymal cells in the right lung lobar bronchus
the fetal urogenital sinus  ( from which the prostate derives )  is a simple cylinder of stratified basal epithelium ,  surrounded by mesenchyme and positioned between the embryonic bladder and pelvic urethra
a branch point connecting the respiratory bronchioles to the alveolar ducts [ mp ]  .
a neuron projection bundle that connects the retina or its analog in the eye with the brain .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the beginning of the intestines to the anus [ go  -  gut definition ]  .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the mouth cavity through pharynx esophagus stomach and duodenum .
an epithelium surrounding a gonad .
an epithelium surrounding a testis .
an epithelium surrounding an ovary .
a dilation of the duodenal papilla that is the opening of the juncture of the common bile duct and the main pancreatic duct .
one of the two small elevations on the mucosa of the duodenum ,  the major at the entrance of the conjoined pancreatic and common bile ducts and the minor at the entrance of the accessory pancreatic duct .
muscular valve that controls the flow of digestive juices  ( bile and pancreatic juice )  through the ampulla of vater into the second part of the duodenum .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a anal region .
a sphincter muscle surrounding the urethra .
a urethral sphincter muscle which constricts the internal urethral orifice .
a mesoderm that is part of a gonad  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a mitotically active layer of cells surrounding the brain ventricles in the adult that consists of migrating neuroblasts ,  astrocytes and transitory amplifying progenitor cells [ mp ]  .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
a submucosa that is part of a hypopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cecum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of an appendix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of an ascending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a transverse colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a descending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a fundus of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cardia of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the urinary bladder .
a submucosa that is part of a trigone of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a ileum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a right main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a left main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a lobar bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a segmental bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a epiglottis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ejaculatory duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a hypopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an appendix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an ascending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a transverse colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a descending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a fundus of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a cardia of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a renal pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a major calyx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a minor calyx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a trigone of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a male urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a female urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a prostatic urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a membranous urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lacrimal sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a nasal septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a sphenoidal sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oropharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a soft palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a uvula  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a middle ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a frontal sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a maxillary sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lacrimal canaliculus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that adjacent_to a paranasal sinus .
a mucosa that is part of a upper lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lower lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a main bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lobar bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a segmental bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of the tympanic cavity epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
a mucosa that is part of a nasolacrimal duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pharyngotympanic tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ethmoid sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a hard palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vocal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mediastinum testis is a network of fibrous connective tissue that extends from the upper to near the lower extremity of the testis ,  and is wider above than below .
the muscular enlargement of the alimentary canal that has usually thick muscular walls and a tough horny lining for grinding the food and when the crop is present follows it and the proventriculus .
a cluster of neurons that is the most prominent longitudinally extending condensed part of a nervous system .
a nerve cord in the dorsal mid - line that is the most prominent nerve cord .
an organ part that is part of a long bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external genitalia that is part of a female reproductive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organ that is part of a immune system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a hemolymphoid system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
amphid sensory organs are the sensory organs of nematodes [ go ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
the median hinge point extends for the entire length of the neural tube ,  and the lateral hinge points do not form in the spinal cord region of the neural tube [ go ]  .
the neuropore at the anterior  ( rostral )  end of the neural tube .
the neuropore at the posterior  ( caudal )  end of the neural tube .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a forebrain and adjacent_to a midbrain .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a hindbrain and adjacent_to a spinal cord .
a temporary opening leading from the central canal of the embryonic neural tube to the exterior .
the anterior - most  ( rostral )  portion of the wall of the neural tube ,  formed by closure of the anterior neuropore ;  the median strip of the anterior wall of the prosencephalon ,  which persists in a relatively unchanged state as the cerebral hemispheres grow out forward beyond the original anterior end of the prosencephalon .
a product of the somatic follicle cell epithelium and a structure that supports the egg in a hostile environment ,  minimizing water loss whilst allowing gas exchanges essential for embryonic respiration [ go ]  .
the portion of the ureteric bud tube that contributes to the morphogenesis of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the portion of the ureteric bud that contributes to the morphogenesis of the ureter .
a hole in a tube [ go ]  .
a circular ingrowth of the epidermis around the region of the mammary sprout [ go ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
a bud - like thickening in the epidermis consisting of elongated keratinocytes ,  which at the distal end are in touch with numerous aggregated specialized dermal fibroblasts ,  the dermal condensate .
an tooth placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the tooth bud [ go ]  .
a sebaceous gland placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the sebaceous gland bud [ go ]  .
an sweat gland placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the sweat gland bud [ go ]  .
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
a simple mucus - secreting structure that is positioned at the front of the embryo ,  attaches the newly hatched embryo to a support before the hatchling can swim well or feed ,  and marks the anterior - most dorsal ectoderm [ xao ]  .
the avian beak is an external anatomical structure ,  in the head region ,  that is adapted for feeding self and young ,  catching prey ,  probing ,  etc .
the descending thin limb is a part of the loop of henle situated just after the proximal straight tubule  ( s3 )  .
the connecting tubule is a tubular segment of the nephron ;  it connects the distal convoluted tubule to the collecting duct [ go ]  .
the short descending thin limb is the descending thin limb of a short nephron that has a squamous epithelial morphology [ go ]  .
the long descending limb starts in the inner stripe of the outer medulla and extends into the inner medulla [ go ]  .
the early distal convoluted tubule contains dct cells and is vasopressin - insensitive [ go ]  .
the late distal convoluted tubule contains dct cells and intercalated  ( ic )  alpha and beta cells and is vasopressin - sensitive [ go ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a mesonephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metanephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric cap is formed by the condensation of metanephric mesenchymal cells surrounding the ureteric bud tip [ go ]  .
an epithelium is a tissue that covers the internal or external surfaces of an anatomical structure [ go ]  .
any smooth muscle tissue that is part of a metanephros .
a metanephric nephron is the functional unit of the metanephros [ go ]  .
metanephric pyramids are the conical masses that constitute the renal medulla in a metanephros ;  they contain the loops of henle and the medullary collecting ducts [ go ]  .
the metanephric ascending thin limb is a segment of a nephron tubule in the metanephros lying in the inner medulla that is permeable to ions but not to water and has a simple epithelium ;  active transepithelial solute transport is absent [ go ]  .
the metanephric cortical collecting duct is the portion of the metanephric collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex [ go ]  .
it extends to the tip of the metanephric loop of henle [ go ]  .
the metanephric distal convoluted tubule is a portion of the metanephric nephron tubule that connects the metanephric loop of henle to the collecting duct [ go ]  .
the metanephric early distal convoluted tubule contains metanephric dct cells and is vasopressin - insensitive [ go ]  .
the metanephric glomerular mesangium is the thin membrane connective tissue composed of mesangial cells in the metanephros ,  which helps to support the capillary loops in a renal glomerulus [ go ]  .
the metanephric late distal convoluted tubule contains metanephric dct cells and intercalated  ( ic )  alpha and beta cells and is vasopressin - sensitive [ go ]  .
the metanephric long descending thin limb bend is a part of the descending thin limb of a long nephron that lies beyond the prebend segment in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric macula densa is an area of specialized cells in the distal tubule of the metanephros that makes contact with the vascular pole of the glomerulus [ go ]  .
the metanephric prebend segment is a part of the metanephric descending thin limb that lies before the bend and exhibits permeabilities characteristic of the ascending limb ,  especially negligible water permeability [ go ]  .
the metanephric proximal convoluted tubule is the most proximal portion of the metanephric proximal tubule and extends from the metanephric glomerular capsule to the metanephric proximal straight tubule [ go ]  .
the metanephric proximal straight tubule is the part of the metanephric descending limb that extends from the metanephric proximal convoluted tubule to the metanephric descending thin tubule [ go ]  .
the s1 portion is the initial portion of the metanephric proximal convoluted tubule and is responsible for avid reabsorption of water and solutes [ go ]  .
at the macula densa ,  the thick ascending limb connects to the distal convoluted tubule [ go ]  .
the metanephric distal tubule is a metanephric nephron tubule that begins at the metanephric macula densa and extends to the metanephric connecting tubule [ go ]  .
the metanephric loop of henle is a metanephric nephron tubule that connects the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule in the metanephros [ go ]  .
long nephrons are associated with juxtamedullary glomeruli and extend into the inner medulla in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the metanephric glomerulus [ go ]  .
the metanephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
a metanephric glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized epithelial cell that contains 'feet' that interdigitate with the 'feet' of other glomerular epithelial cells in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric glomerular endothelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the internal surfaces of the glomerulus of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the metanephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
short nephrons are associated with mid - cortical and superficial glomeruli ,  are situated entirely in the outer medulla ,  and have no thin ascending limb [ go ]  .
the metanephric short descending thin limb is the descending thin limb of a short nephron in the metanephros that has a squamous epithelial morphology [ go ]  .
this process pertains to the initial formation of a structure from unspecified parts [ go ]  .
the metanephric comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the metanephric s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
a metanephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephric nephron ,  the functional part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the metanephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
the metanephric s - shaped body is the successor of the metanephric comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric connecting tubule is a tubular segment of the metanephric nephron ;  it connects the distal convoluted tubule to the collecting duct in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric proximal tubule is a metanephric nephron tubule that connects bowman's capsule to the descending thin limb of the loop of henle in the metanephros .
a bud is a protrusion that forms from an epithelial sheet by localized folding .
a cord of epithelial cells without a lumen and usually several cells thick .
an open tracheal system is a respiratory system ,  a branched network of epithelial tubes that supplies oxygen to target tissues via spiracles .
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
the functional tissue of the central nervous system consisting of neurons and glial cells .
the anterior or ventral portion of the medulla oblongata is named the pyramid and lies between the anterior median fissure and the antero - lateral sulcus .
a remnant structure from earlier development or evolution .
pelvic spurs are the externally visible portion of the vestigial remnants of legs found on each side of the vent in primitive snakes ,  such as boas and pythons .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
the distal part of the loop of henle that is impermeable to water and actively pumps sodium out of the filtrate to generate the hypertonic interstitium that drives countercurrent exchange ;  it consists of an initial very thin segment lined by simple squamous epithelium followed by a distal thick segment lined by simple cuboidal epithelium [ mp ]  .
the terminal portions of the medullary collecting ducts are the papillary ducts ,  which end at the renal papilla and empty into a minor calyx .
any of the veins that parallel the interlobular arteries ,  receiving blood from the peritubular capillary plexus and empty into the arcuate veins
connective tissue between the cellular elements of a structure .
a layer of the ovarian follicle that consists of granulosa cells .
any portion of the ducts that carry bile from the liver to the common bile duct .
an organ or element that is in the abdomen .
an organ or element that is part of the adbominal segment of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the dorsum of the organism .
an organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a circumscribed mass of ectodermal cells which bud off from the dental lamina ;  it becomes cup - shaped and develops on its internal face the ameloblast layer of cells that produces the enamel cap of a developing tooth .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ or element that is part of the pelvic region .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
innermost layer of the hair shaft .
the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal medulla
an artery that is part of a uterine cervix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery in males that provides blood to the vas deferens .
one of: anterior or posterior ethmoidal arteries .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a germinal center that is part of the spleen .
a mammary gland that is part of a cervical region .
a lactiferous gland that is located in the thoracic region / breast .
a macula densa that is part of an ascending limb of loop of henle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a tubuloacinar seromucous gland that is located principally in the submucosa of the trachea .
a gland that is part of a larynx submucosa  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
stromal matrix surrounding blood vessels within the choroid plexus .
a capsule that is part of a tonsil  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a valve that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
tissue surrounding the loop of henle in the renal medulla .
the male gonad containing two functional parts: the seminiferous tubules for the production and transport of male germ cells  ( spermatogenesis )  and the interstitial compartment containing leydig cells that produce androgens . .
a portion of interstitial tissue that is part of a outer medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of interstitial tissue that is part of a inner medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the interstitial compartment of the kidney ,  comprising the extravascular intertubular spaces of the renal parenchyma ,  with their attendant cellular elements and extracellular substances ,  bounded on all sides by epithelial and vascular basement membranes .
an external ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a head of pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a right lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a left lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a body of pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a tail of pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a medial nasal prominence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a small ,  oval ,  bony chamber of the labyrinth .
a forelimb that is part of an apical ectodermal ridge  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a hindlimb that is part of an apical ectodermal ridge  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endocardium that is part of a interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lobar bronchus that is part of a lower lobe of right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a bulbus cordis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a renal pelvis that is part of a metanephros .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a yolk sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lesser sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cardiac jelly that is part of an atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cardiac jelly that is part of a ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cardiac jelly that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that supplies the renal cortex .
artery that receives blood from the renal cortex [ mp ,  modified ] 
a compartment of the renal cortex situated between basement membranes of epithelia and vessels that contains two contiguous cellular networks in mutual contact ,  one formed by interstitial fibroblasts ,  the other by dendritic cells .
the part of the renal cortex nearest to the medulla .
the tiny blood vessels that receive blood from the efferent arterioles of the glomerulus ,  and interact with superficial cortical nephrons allowing reabsorption and secretion between blood and the inner lumen of the nephron ;  peritubular capillaries are situated around the tubule and are at low pressure
region of skin beneath the nail plate [ wp ]  .
a dorsal skin of digit that is part of a manual digit .
a dorsal skin of digit that is part of a pedal digit .
a nail bed that is part of a manual digit .
a nail bed that is part of a pedal digit .
a set of structures containing cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
a structure found in the walls of the ventricles of the brain ,  consisting of part of the meninges  ( pia mater in mammals )  plus ependyma [ cjm ]  .
tela choroidea that lines the tectal ventricle .
tela chorioidea that lines the fourth ventricle [ zfa ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the third ventricle [ zfa ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the telencephalic ventricle .
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata and a portion of the fourth ventricle ;  as well as the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  ,  vagus nerve  ( cn x )  ,  accessory nerve  ( cn xi )  ,  hypoglossal nerve  ( cn xii )  ,  and a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cn viii )  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
a major subdivision of the cerebellum: anterior ,  posterior and flocculonodular
the elevation of thickened mesothelium and underlying mesenchyme found on the ventromedial border of the embryonic mesonephros in which the primordial germ cells become embedded ,  establishing it as the primordium of the testis or ovary
cordlike masses of epithelial tissue that invaginate from germinal epithelium of the gonad and give rise to seminiferous tubules and rete testes in the male ,  and primary ovarian follicles and rete ovarii in the female .
structures that develop from sex cords in the female .
the testis cords are precursors to the rete testis .
a zone of skin that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the clitoral glans .
one of the sebaceous glands of the corona and neck of the glans penis .
the paired ,  lobulated ,  modified sebaceous glands located on the side of the clitoris in female rodents ;  in contrast to the preputial glands in male rodents ,  clitoral glands are a minor source of olfactory stimuli contributing to sexual attractivity ;  unlike other sebaceous glands ,  they undergo progressive atrophy of the glandular portion with marked ductal ectasia as rodents age .
the transition between the superior hypogastric plexus and the inferior hypogastric plexus .
the gangliated plexus of unmyelinated nerve fibers that ramify the stomach and intestinal submucosa
discrete ,  cystlike units of the thyroid gland that are lined with cuboidal epithelium and are filled with a colloid substance ,  about 30 to each lobule [ bto ]  .
a blastema is a mass of cells capable of growth and regeneration into organs or body parts .
an eggshell that contains chorion .
the nephrostome is the opening of the pronephros into the body cavity [ go ]  .
a pronephric nephron is the functional unit of the pronephros [ go ]  .
the pronephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the pronephric nephron and connects the filtration unit  ( glomerulus or glomus )  of the pronephros to the pronephric duct [ go ]  .
the mammary placode is a transient lens shaped structure that will give rise to the mammary bud proper [ go ]  .
a unique club - shaped epithelial structure that develops at the tip of the mammary duct at the onset of puberty under the action of circulating hormones .
a primary alveolar septum is a specialized epithelium that surrounds the saccule as it forms [ go ]  .
a secondary alveolar septum is a specialized epithelium that subdivides the initial saccule [ go ]  .
the endothelial lining of the endocardium .
an pulmonary artery endothelium is an epithelium that lines the pulmonary artery [ go ]  .
the collecting duct is the final common path through which urine flows before entering the ureter and then emptying into the bladder [ go ]  .
the juxtaglomerular apparatus lies adjacent to the glomerulus and regulates kidney function by maintaining the blood flow to the kidney and the filtration rate [ go ]  .
a nephron that is part of a mesonephros .
mesonephric mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric macula densa is an area of specialized cells in the distal tubule of the mesonephros that makes contact with the vascular pole of the glomerulus [ go ]  .
the mesonephric glomerulus is a capillary tuft which forms a close network with the visceral epithelium  ( podocytes )  and the mesangium to form the filtration barrier and is surrounded by bowman's capsule in nephrons of the mature vertebrate kidney ,  or mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the mesonephric glomerulus [ go ]  .
a mesonephric glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized epithelial cell that contains 'feet' that interdigitate with the 'feet' of other glomerular epithelial cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the mesonephric s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
a mesonephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the mesonephric nephron ,  the functional part of the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the mesonephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
the mesonephric s - shaped body is the successor of the mesonephric comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
a bulb of epithelial cells that forms from the mammary placode that develops into the mammary gland .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of oral region .
the chorioallantoic membrane is a vascular membrane found in eggs of some amniotes ,  such as birds and reptiles .
the capillary lamina of choroid or choriocapillaris is a layer of capillaries that is immediately adjacent to bruch's membrane in the choroid .
a ventricular outflow tract is a portion of either the left ventricle or right ventricle of the heart through which blood passes in order to enter the great arteries .
an outflow tract that is part of a aorta .
a fiber tracts that connect the dorsal region of the two cerebral hemispheres and span the longitudinal fissure ,  including the corpus callosum and hippocampal commissure [ mp ]  .
the fiber tracts that connect the ventral region of the two cerebral hemispheres and span the longitudinal fissure ,  including the anterior and the habenular commissures [ mp ]  .
rounded portion of the malleus that articulates with the body of the incus [ mp ]  .
the outer neural tube region in which post - mitotic neuroblasts migrate along radial glia to form the adult cortical layers [ mp ]  .
a peritoneal diverticulum in the embryonic lower anterior abdominal wall that traverses the inguinal canal .
the folium vermis is a short ,  narrow ,  concealed band at the posterior extremity of the vermis ,  consisting apparently of a single folium ,  but in reality marked on its upper and under surfaces by secondary fissures .
a lobule comprising the greater part of the hemisphere of the cerebellum ;  its superior and inferior surfaces are separated by the horizontal fissure into major parts known as crus i  ( superior semilunar lobule )  and crus ii  ( inferior semilunar lobule )  .
the anterior portion of the posteroinferior lobule of the cerebellum ,  the posterior portion being the semilunar lobule inferior ;  the two are continuous with the tuber of the vermis .
the cord - like structure in males comprising the vas deferens and associated tissue that runs from the abdomen down to each testis [ mp ]  .
the compartment located between the marginal zone and the red pulp harboring scattered b and t lymphocytes [ mp ]  .
the projection extending from the base of the manubrium of the malleus which contacts the upper part of the tympanic membrane where the tympanic cavity makes a deep pocket  ( epitympanic pocket )  surrounding the cartilaginous nodule [ mp ]  .
the narrow contracted section of the malleus located between the head and the manubrium [ mp ]  .
a pouch of ectoderm that grows out from the upper surface of the embryonic stomodeum and gives rise to the anterior and intermediate lobes of the pituitary gland [ mp ]  .
the ependymal cell layer that lines the brain ventricles
a layer in the central nervous system that lines system of communicating cavities in the brain and spinal cord .
the ependymal cell layer that lines the spinal cord
the lower group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the glossopharyngeal nerve [ mp ]  .
the upper ganglion of the glossopharyngeal nerve [ mp ]  .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the vagus nerve
the large group of sensory neuron cell bodies ,  anterior to the jugular vein ,  associated with the vagus nerve  ( tenth cranial nerve ) 
the upper ganglion of the vagus nerve located at the jugular foramen
the lobe at the anterior part of each cerebral hemisphere ,  responsible for olfactory functions .
the most superficial stratum in the hippocampus .
a thin stratum in the hippocampus that is immediately deep to the molecular layer ,  and is superficial to the stratum radiatum .
layer that is part of the ca fields of the hippocampus consisting of a narrow relatively cell free layer located deep to the pyramidal cell layer extending through areas ca1 ,  ca2 and ca3 .
the layer located immediately above the pyramidal cell layer in ca2 and ca1 and superficial to the stratum lucidum in ca3 .
the wedge - shaped fiber bundle of white matter in the dorsomedial side of the spinal cord that is made up of the fasciculus gracilis and fasciculus cuneatus ;  it is part of the ascending posterior column - medial lemniscus pathway that is important for well - localized fine touch and conscious proprioception
the region of white matter of the spinal cord that is located between the dorsal and ventral spinal roots
the area of white matter of the spinal cord located on either side of the ventral  ( anterior )  medial fissure
cytoarchitectural part of the olfactory bulb ,  lying superior to the mitral cell layer and inferior to the glomerular layer .
the glomerular layer is the most superficial layer ,  consisting of mitral cell dendritic arborizations  ( glomeruli )  ,  olfactory nerve fibers ,  and periglomerular cells .
the granule cell layer contains multiple small round neurons that lack axons .
the region of mitotically active layer of cells surrounding the lateral brain ventricles that consists of migrating neuroblasts ,  astrocytes and transitory amplifying progenitor cells ,  that produce neurons that migrate to the olfactory bulb
granule cell layer is also called the dg principal cell layer .
dorsal components of the striatum comprising the caudate nucleus and the putamen ,  in species that have distinct nuclei ;  the caudoputamen in species which don't .
regional part of telencephalon in some species ,  e .g . ,  rodent ,  equivalent to the dorsal striatum  ( caudate nucleus and putamen )  .
an epithelium that lines the nasal cavity .
an epithelium that is part of the respiratory segment of the nasal mucosa  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
that portion of the nasal mucosa containing the sensory endings for olfaction ;  the organ of smell [ mesh ]  .
one of the small globular masses of dense neuropil in the olfactory bulb ,  containing the first synapse in the olfactory pathway [ bto ]  .
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
the most superficial layer of the neocortex characterized by a paucity of cell bodies .
layer of neocortex lying just deep to molecular layer characterized by numerous small cell bodies .
layer of neocortex lying deep to the external granule cell layer defined cytoarchitecturally by numerous small pyramidal neurons .
layer of neocortex lying deep to the external pyramidal cell layer defined cytoarchitecturally by the presence of numerous small cells
layer of neocortex lying deep to the internal granule cell layer  ( layer 4 )  defined cytoarchitecturally by the predominance of large pyramidal cell bodies
innermost layer of neocortex lying deep to the internal pyramidal cell layer defined cytoarchitecturally by cells of varying size .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
an arachnoid mater that surrounds a brain .
a sex gland that is part of a female reproductive system .
a sex gland that is part of a male reproductive system .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a telencephalon .
a gray matter that is part of a cerebral hemisphere .
the vertical groove found on the median line of the upper lip ,  extending to the nose
a composite structure of the telencephalon that is defined in the striatopallidal system by connectivity and neurochemical staining .
a suture between frontal and nasal bones
the paranephric body  ( or paranephric fat or pararenal fat )  is collection of adipose tissue located superficial to the renal fascia .
the adipose capsule of kidney  ( or perinephric fat or perirenal fat )  is a structure between the renal fascia and renal capsule ,  and may be regarded as a part of the latter .
the small parasympathetic ganglion found anterior to the submandibular gland that provides postsynaptic fibers to the sublingual gland
any of any of the secretory or sensory organs located in the brain region around or in relation to the ventricular system that are characterized by extensive vasculature and a lack of a normal blood brain barrier  ( bbb )  and allow for the linkage between the central nervous system and peripheral blood flow .
the part of the digestive system that excludes the hepatobiliary system .
a otic capsule endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the cartilage or bony capsule surrounding the inner ear mechanism
groove that is in the developing ventral optic cup and through which blood vessels pass to the enclosed mesenchyme [ zfa ]  .
this tract conveys interoceptive ,  proprioceptive ,  and exteroceptive information from the body's internal organs ,  and from the trunk ,  extremities ,  and neck region to the cerebellum .
an area of mesenchymal cells that contains signals which instruct the developing limb or fin bud to form along the anterior / posterior axis .
a zone of polarizing activity that is part of a pectoral appendage bud mesenchyme .
a zone of polarizing activity that is part of a pelvic appendage bud mesenchyme .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb or pectoral fin .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb or pelvic fin .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
portion of tissue that is the outer layer of the optic cup and will become the retinal pigmented epithelium .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
vagal neural crest is adjacent to the first seven somites gives rise to both ganglionic and ectomesenchymal derivatives [ zfa ]  .
a pancreatic duct that develops from the dorsal pancreatic bud .
a loop of nerves that are part of the cervical plexus that lies superficial to the internal jugular vein in the carotid sheath .
a blood vessel that supplies the anterior portion of the spinal cord .
the dilated structure that is lined by endothelial cells and located at the arterial pole of the heart just above  ( distal to )  the truncus arteriosus in mammalian embryos ;  it is the primordial vascular channel from which the aortic arches  ( and eventually the dorsal aortae )  arise ;  the aortic sac is homologous to the ventral aorta of gill - bearing vertebrates
a dilated sac at the lower end of the thoracic duct into which lymph from the intestinal trunk and two lumbar lymphatic trunks flow .
in anatomy ,  the common hepatic artery is a short blood vessel that supplies oxygenated blood to the liver ,  pylorus  ( a part of the stomach )  ,  duodenum  ( a part of the small intestine )  and pancreas .
the conus medullaris is the terminal end of the spinal cord .
the short trunk that recieves most of the cardiac veins carrying the blood from the myocardium and delivers it to the right atrium ,  with the sinoatrial connection occurring between the inferior vena cava and the atrioventricular orifice
a fetal blood vessel connecting the pulmonary artery with the descending aorta [ mesh ]  .
an intercostal muscle that aids in quiet and forced inhalation via elevation of the ribs ,  and expanding the transverse dimensions of the thoracic cavity .
the lateral abdominal wall muscle that is the most superficial ,  immediately superficial to the internal oblique .
a strand of fibrous tissue in the spinal cord consisting of the filum terminale internum and the filum terminale externum .
a segment of autopod that is part of a pes .
the foramen rotundum is a circular hole in the sphenoid bone that connects the middle cranial fossa and the pterygopalatine fossa .
the greater omentum  ( also the great omentum ,  omentum majus ,  gastrocolic omentum ,  epiploön ,  or ,  especially in animals ,  caul )  is a large fold of peritoneum that hangs down from the stomach ,  and extends from the stomach to the posterior abdominal wall after associating with the transverse colon .
the cavity in the abdomen that is inside the peritoneum but outside of the lesser sac .
a segment of autopod that is part of a manus .
a three - dimensional arrangement formed by plates of hepatocytes ,  usually one cell thick ,  that radiates from the center of the liver lobule ;  hepatic laminae are highly branched ,  irregular structures bordered by endothelial lined vascular spaces called hepatic sinusoids .
a ganglion located near where the inferior mesenteric artery branches from the abdominal aorta [ wp ]  .
the lateral abdominal wall muscle that is deep to the external oblique and superficial to the transversus .
either of the anterior and posterior grooves on the surface of the heart that lie over the interventricular septum and join at the apex .
the jugular foramen is a large aperture in the base of the skull .
a thymus lobe that is in the left side of a thymus .
an umbilical vein that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
a vitelline vein that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
an axial muscle that originates in the cervical vertebraae inserts on the scapula .
subdivision of abdominal segment of trunk which in humans is demarcated from the front of the abdomen by the posterior surface of the anterior layer of the thoracolumbar fascia and the anterior surface of the lumbar vertebral column ;  together with the front of the abdomen ,  it constitutes the abdomen [ modified from fma ]  .
a space between the capsule and the cortex which allows the free movement of lymphatic fluid and so contains a sparsity of lymphocytes .
the median sacral artery  ( or middle sacral artery )  is a small vessel ,  which arises from the back of the aorta ,  a little above its bifurcation .
the obturator nerve arises from the ventral divisions of the second ,  third ,  and fourth lumbar nerves ;  the branch from the third is the largest ,  while that from the second is often very small .
the platysma is a pharyngeal arch 2 muscle and a superficial facial muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors and is innervated by the cervical branch of the facial nerve .
a thymus lobe that is in the right side of a thymus .
an umbilical vein that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a vitelline vein that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a subdivision of an organism along the anterior - posterior axis in the pelvic region immediately posterior to the lumbar region and anterior to the caudal region .
a portion of the lateral venous sinus ,  bulging prominently into the mastoid cavity ,  that serves as a principal conduit by which blood leaves the cranium [ epic ]  .
trunk part of spinal nerve ,  where dorsal and ventral roots meet to form the spinal nerve ,  before branching off to dorsal and ventral rami .
a simple columnar epithelium that is part of a fundus of stomach .
a longitudinal groove in the neural tube wall that divides the neural tube into dorsal  ( alar )  and ventral  ( basal )  halves  ( dorsal receives input from sensory neurons ,  ventral effects motor functions )  ;  stretches from the mesencephalon caudad [ tmd ]  .
a ganglion in the upper part of the superior mesenteric plexus that is the synapsing point for one of the pre -  and post - synaptic nerves of the sympathetic division of the autonomous nervous system .
the orbital fissure that is situated superiorly between the greater wing and the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone
an unpaired venous dural sinus that receives blood from the superior cerebellar veins and inferior sagittal sinus and drains into the confluence of sinuses .
either of the two lateral lobes that constitute the thymus .
a valve leaflet that is part of a tricuspid valve .
the semicircular fold of endocardium located on the right atrium at the point of attachment of the inferior vena cava ;  during development this valve helps direct the flow of oxygen - rich blood through the right atrium into the left cardiac atrium via the foramen ovale  ( preventing blood flowing into the right ventricle ) 
a venous channel found between layers of dura mater in the brain .
the paired veins that carry blood from the yolk sac back to the embryo
the superior mesenteric plexus is a continuation of the lower part of the celiac plexus ,  receiving a branch from the junction of the right vagus nerve with the plexus .
the ventricles of the heart are separated by two grooves ,  one of which ,  the anterior longitudinal sulcus  ( or anterior interventricular sulcus )  ,  is situated on the sternocostal surface of the heart ,  close to its left margin .
the ventricles are separated by two grooves ,  one of which ,  the anterior longitudinal sulcus ,  is situated on the sternocostal surface of the heart ,  close to its left margin ,  the other posterior longitudinal sulcus  ( posterior interventricular sulcus ,  inferior interventricular groove )  ,  on the diaphragmatic surface near the right margin .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglion .
a blood vessel that is associated with the lens .
one of a group of muscles used in mastication and swallowing .
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
hindbrain segment or neuromere 1 .
a neural tube lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere .
the third transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
the fourth transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
the fifth transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
the sixth transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
the seventh transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
the eighth transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
a small outgrowth of the pharyngeal epithelium that is the site of lymphocyte cell production [ zfa ]  .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
cranial neural crest that gives rise to the facio - acoustic ganglion .
a rhombomere lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere 1 .
a rhombomere roof plate that is part of a rhombomere 1 .
the second transiently divided segment of the developing rhombencephalon ;  rhombomeres are lineage restricted ,  express different genes from one another ,  and adopt different developmental fates ;  rhombomeres are numbered in caudal to rostral order
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 2 .
a rhombomere lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere 2 .
a rhombomere roof plate that is part of a rhombomere 2 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 3 .
a rhombomere lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere 3 .
a rhombomere roof plate that is part of a rhombomere 3 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 4 .
a rhombomere lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere 4 .
a rhombomere roof plate that is part of a rhombomere 4 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 5 .
a rhombomere lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere 5 .
a rhombomere roof plate that is part of a rhombomere 5 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 6 .
a rhombomere lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere 6 .
a rhombomere roof plate that is part of a rhombomere 6 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 7 .
a rhombomere lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere 7 .
a rhombomere roof plate that is part of a rhombomere 7 .
a rhombomere floor plate that is part of a rhombomere 8 .
a rhombomere lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere 8 .
a rhombomere roof plate that is part of a rhombomere 8 .
somite located in the head region ,  caudal to the otic vesicle
a pair of lateral diverticula just over the liver rudiment representing the primordia of the lungs ,  formed by the floor of the foregut just anterior to the liver diverticulum .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
a region formed by non - ampulated ends of posterior and superior semicircular canals of vestibular apparatus in inner ear .
the part of the mesocardium dorsal to the embryonic heart ;  it breaks down to form the transverse sinus of the pericardium .
the portion of mesentery attached to the greater curvature of the stomach is named the dorsal mesentery  ( or dorsal mesogastrium ,  when referring to the portion at the stomach )  ,  and the part which suspends the colon is termed the mesocolon .
the second arch becomes the hyoid artery ,  which is prominent in early development and normally persists as the caroticotympanic branch of the ica [ padget ] 
any of the arteries that arise from a bifurcation of the aorta supplying the pelvic or abdomen .
any of the three veins including the common ,  external and internal iliac veins .
a corner of the medial  ( inner )  part of an eye .
one of a group of arteries that supply the area between the ribs  ( 'costae' )  ,  called the intercostal space .
a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells bounded anteriorly by the capsule of the lens and posteriorly by the lens cortex .
arteries which arise from the abdominal aorta and distribute to most of the intestines .
a vein that returns blood from the intestines .
the outgrowths of the embryonic maxillary prominences that come together during prenatal development to form the secondary palate
the part of the palate formed from the intermaxillary segment .
a rhombus - shaped muscle associated with the scapula and chiefly responsible for its retraction .
the valves that gate the flow of blood from the ventricles into the aorta and pulmonary trunk
artery that supplies blood to the adrenal glands .
the cavity formed by the tubotympanic recess epithelium .
portion of ventral mesentery closest to the stomach .
the ileal arteries feed oxygenated blood into the ileum ,  a portion of the small intestine in mammals ,  reptiles ,  and birds .
a vascular network formed by frequent anastomoses between the blood vessels  ( arteries or veins )  of a part .
the amnion and chorion which surround and protect a developing fetus .
intrinsic membrane that arises from embryonic germ layers and grow to surround the developing embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a caecum .
an epithelium that is part of a pylorus .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a upper lobe of right lung .
an epithelium that is part of a lower lobe of right lung .
an epithelium that is part of a ultimobranchial body .
an epithelium that is part of a duodenum of foregut .
an epithelium that is part of a duodenum of midgut .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 2 .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 3 .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 4 .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 5 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 2 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 3 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 4 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 5 .
a dental epithelium that is part of a upper jaw molar .
a dental epithelium that is part of a lower jaw molar .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung accessory lobe .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
an epithelium that is part of a crus commune .
an epithelium that is part of a secondary palatal shelf .
an epithelium that is part of a primary palate .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
a mesothelium that is part of a peritoneal cavity .
a mesothelium that is part of a greater omentum .
a mesothelium that is part of a greater sac .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a left lung .
an endothelium that is part of a upper lobe of right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a lower lobe of right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung accessory lobe .
a mesentery that is part of a caecum .
a segmental bronchus that is part of a upper lobe of right lung .
a segmental bronchus that is part of a lower lobe of right lung .
a segmental bronchus that is part of a right lung accessory lobe .
a bronchiole that is part of a upper lobe of right lung .
a bronchiole that is part of a right lung accessory lobe .
a dorsal mesentery that is part of a midgut .
a dorsal mesentery that is part of a caecum .
a orbitosphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lens vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 2 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 3 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 5 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 2 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 3 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 5 .
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a upper jaw molar .
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a lower jaw molar .
mesenchyme that is part of a optic eminence .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing secondary palatal shelf .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing primary palate .
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a upper jaw incisor .
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a lower jaw incisor .
a dental epithelium that is part of a upper jaw incisor .
a dental epithelium that is part of a lower jaw incisor .
a mesentery of duodenum that is part of a foregut .
a mesentery of duodenum that is part of a midgut .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a footplate .
a venous system that is part of a hindbrain .
a mesoderm that has the potential to develop into a pronephros .
the nephrotome is a section of the mesoderm .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord and is part of a floor plate .
a tissue that is part of a spinal cord and is part of a roof plate .
a sensory system that is capable of olfacttion  ( the sensory perception of smell )  .
obsoleted definition: in the developing vertebrate embryo ,  the somitomeres are loose masses of paraxial mesoderm derived cells that form along each side of the neural tube towards the end of the third gestational week .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pectoral appendage bud mesenchyme .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pelvic appendage bud mesenchyme .
a limb / fin field that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a paired fin bud .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb or paired fin [ gilbert , modified ]  .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb .
the outermost layer of a blood vessel ,  composed mainly of fibrous tissue .
multi - tissue structure that is the external layer of the swim bladder that is covered by the peritoneum ,  and made of elastic fibres and ichthyocol  ( short needles of collagen )  .
multi - tissue structure that is the internal layer of the swim bladder and is comprised of thin endoderm and a smooth muscle layer called the muscularis mucosa with longitudinal and circular fibres with some collagen .
a tunica intima that is part of a artery .
an outermost connective tissue covering of an organ ,  vessel ,  or other structure [ wp ]  .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
an opening in the skull through which cranial nerve ii passes .
embryonic fibrovascular mesodermal tissue located between the optic cup and lens vesicle that normally regresses during the development of the vitreous body [ mp ] 
the capillary loops of the kidney that normally function as a filtration unit [ mp ]  .
a single layer of simple squamous epithelium in the glomerular capsule .
the inner ,  or visceral ,  layer of the renal glomerular capsule ,  overlying the capillaries ,  composed of podocytes ,  and separated from the outer ,  or parietal ,  layer by the capsular  ( bowman's )  space [ bto ]  .
the metanephros develops from the most caudal part of the nephrogenic cord that is itself derived from the intermediate plate mesoderm .
the initial renal anlage that develops from the most rostral part of the nephrogenic cord is termed the pronephros .
the ridge of mesoderm covered with endoderm that in the early developing embryo partitions the endodermal cloaca into the primary urogenital sinus  ( ventrally )  and the anorectal canal of the hindgut  ( dorsally )  ;  the urorectal septum eventually fuses with the cloacal membrane ,  dividing it into a dorsal anal membrane and a larger ventral urogenital membrane  -  this area of fusion is represented in the adult by the perineal body [ mp ]  .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
the layer of extracellular matrix that lies between the endothelium of the glomerular capillaries and the podocytes of the inner or visceral layer of the bowman capsule ;  it is a fusion of the endothelial cell and podocyte basal laminas and acts as a physical barrier and an ion - selective filter
middle layer of the glomerular basement membrane .
layer of the glomerular basement membrane adjacent to the glomerular capillary .
layer of the glomerular basement membrane adjacent to the podocytes and capsular space .
nephric tubules  ( nephrons )  form embryonically along the nephric ridge .
the duplex uterus is doubled ,  and is found in monotremes ,  marsupials ,  elephants and rodents
the bipartite uterus is y - shaped externally and divided internally  ( ungulates ,  carnivores ) 
the bicornate uterus is y - shaped but has no internal partition  ( some ungulates ,  whales ) 
the simplex uterus has only one uterine chamber  ( primates ) 
any portion of the aorta including the ascending and descending aorta ,  and aortic arch or a portion of the aortic orifice of the left ventricle .
the dorsal aorta is a blood vessel in a single - pass circulatory system that carries oxygenated blood from the gills to the rest of the body .
in the circulatory system of animals ,  a portal venous system occurs when a capillary bed drains into another capillary bed through veins ,  without first going through the heart .
control of blood pressure is crucially dependent on the integrity of a small region of the brainstem called the ventrolateral medulla .
a bone tissue that is part of a long bone .
the outer or sperficial part of a bone of the manus .
the conical ventral projection on the arch of the atlas
a round nodule ,  small eminence ,  or warty outgrowth found on bones ,  skin ,  or within the lungs in tuberculosis .
a vertebral arch that is part of the first cervical vertebra
the anterior arch forms about one - fifth of the ring: its anterior surface is convex ,  and presents at its center the anterior tubercle for the attachment of the longus colli muscles .
the posterior arch of a cervical vertebra forms about two - fifths of the circumference of the ring: it ends behind in the posterior tubercle ,  which is the rudiment of a spinous process and gives origin to the recti capitis posteriores minores .
an anatomical structure that is regional part of the central nervous system where there is a significant bend of the axis .
a sharp ,  ventrally concave bend in the developing midbrain of the embryo [ mp ]  .
a ventrally concave flexure of the embryonic brain occurring at the junction of hindbrain and spinal cord [ mp ]  .
a dorsally concave bend of the embryonic rhombencephalon that produces a thinning of the roof of the pons and medulla oblongata and defines the boundary between the metencephalon and myelencephalon in the embryo [ mp ]  .
a group of axons that are from neurons involved in proprioception from the lower trunk and lower limb [ go ]  .
a gracile fasciculus that is part of a spinal cord .
an axon tract in the spinal cord and medulla which primarily transmits information from the forelimb and trunk .
an axon tract in the spinal cord which primarily transmits information from the forelimb and trunk .
a fascicle that is part of a spinal cord .
a fascicle that is part of a brain .
a subdivision of spinal cord dorsal column that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord dorsal column that is part of a sacral spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord dorsal column that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord dorsal column that is part of a lumbar spinal cord .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a sacral region .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a caudal region .
a subdivision of spinal cord lateral column that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord lateral column that is part of a sacral spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord lateral column that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord lateral column that is part of a lumbar spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a sacral spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a lumbar spinal cord .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
cell condensation that is an aggregation of mesenchymal cells that are committed to differentiate into chondroblasts and chondrocytes .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme whose cells are committed to become chondroblasts .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
the paired dorsal prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo that unite with the ipsilateral medial nasal process to form the upper jaw
from the lower border of the inferior nasal concha ,  a thin lamina ,  the maxillary process ,  curves downward and lateralward ;  it articulates with the maxilla and forms a part of the medial wall of the maxillary sinus .
an indentation of the olfactory placode which ends when the pits hollows out to form the nasopharynx [ go ]  .
a thick ,  horizontal process of the maxilla .
a groove that is situated between the 1st and 2nd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 2nd and 3rd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 3rd and 4th pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 4th and 5th pharyngeal arch .
the embryonic anlage of the external genitalia ,  which emerges as paired swellings ventral to the cloacal membrane ,  is proposed to be derived from all three germ layers ,  and gives rise to the penis ,  clitoris ,  scrotum ,  labia ,  and foreskin
an external pocketing of pharyngeal ectoderm that contacts a region of endoderm  ( a pharyngeal pouch )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions by the pharyngeal arches .
a rudimentary additional digit - like structure on the preaxial side of the thumb of certain amphibians and mammals [ dictionary .com ]  .
a subdivision of the autopod that corresponds to one or more bones arranged in series branching from the main limb axis .
the mantle layer of the neural tube that lies dorsal to the sulcus limitans and contains primarily sensory neurons and interneurons involved in communication of sensory impulses .
a subdivision of skeleton that supports pharyngeal arch 2 .
the part of the pharyngeal arch skeleton that excludes the skeleton of arches 1 and 2 .
the epithelial lining of the surface of the coelom .
the mesonephric equivalent of the ascending limb ,  or straight distal segment ,  of metanephric nephrons .
a bone that is part of the region of the hindlimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
obsolete: a leg is a limb on which an animal walks and stands  ( go:0035110 )  .
the walking appendages of each segment of the ventral adult external thorax [ fbbt ]  .
a jointed or prehensible appendage used for locomotion or manipulation .
a bone that is part of the manus skeleton .
a bone that is part of the pes skeleton
anatomical cluster that is located in the posterior region of the cranium and forms the margin of the foramen magnum and occipital condyles .
each seminal vesicle consists of a single tube ,  coiled upon itself ,  and giving off several irregular cecal diverticula ;  the separate coils ,  as well as the diverticula ,  are connected together by fibrous tissue .
any of the ducts that are part of a male reproductive system .
a mouthpart of insects .
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
a serous sac which is the aggregate of the conjunctiva plus the conjunctival space
see urothelium .
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
an urothelium of ureter that is part of a mucosa of major calyx .
a thin bony plate occasionally found projecting from the inner wall of the ethmoid labyrinth ,  above the bony superior nasal concha ,  and the mucous membrane covering the plate .
the back part of the medial surface of the labyrinth of ethmoid is subdivided by a narrow oblique fissure ,  the superior meatus of the nose ,  bounded above by a thin ,  curved plate ,  the superior nasal concha .
the medial surface of the labyrinth of ethmoid consists of a thin lamella ,  which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate ,  and ends below in a free ,  convoluted margin ,  the middle nasal concha .
a turbinal located on the maxilla bone .
behind the lacrimal process of the inferior nasal conchae lies a broad ,  thin plate ,  the ethmoidal process ,  which ascends to join the uncinate process of the ethmoid ;  from its lower border a thin lamina ,  the maxillary process ,  curves downward and lateralward ;  it articulates with the maxilla and forms a part of the medial wall of the maxillary sinus .
a naris that provides one of the small external openings of the head that give passage to air for breathing .
initial opening of the nasal pits and olfactory sac of the embryo into the rostral part of the primordial oronasal cavity ,  before the formation of the secondary palate .
thickening of the proximal end of the hair follicle .
a multilayered tube composed of terminally differentiated hair follicle keratinocytes that is surrounded by the outer root sheath ;  the layers of the inner root sheath include the companion layer ,  henle's layer ,  huxley's layer and the inner root sheath cuticle [ mp ]  .
a stratified epithelium that surrounds the hair follicle that merges proximally with the basal layer of the interfollicular epidermis and distally with the hair bulb .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
an outflow tract that is part of a cardiac atrium .
anteriosuperior ,  smooth - walled portion of the cavity of the right ventricle ,  beginning at the supraventricular crest and terminating in the pulmonary trunk
anterosuperior fibrous portion of the left ventricle that connects to the ascending aorta .
outflow part of atrium which consists of wall and cavity of the outflow part of right atrium and the tricuspid valve .
an outflow tract of atrium that is part of a left atrium .
one of the pair of spiral mesenchymal swellings in the primordial ventricular outflow tract ,  that eventually fuse to form the conotruncal septum ,  dividing the subvalvular outflow tract and contributing to the membranous interventricular septum [ mp ] 
the portion of the hair follicle from the entrance of the sebaceous gland duct to the epidermal surface opening .
a pore - like structure surrounding the entire circumference of the anterior chamber of the eye through which aqueous humor circulates [ mp ]  .
any of the nerve fiber tracts that span the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral and / or cerebellar hemispheres of the brain
a sheet of somatopleure that grows upward over the embryo and eventually meets in the midline enclosing the embryo ,  eventually giving rise to the amnion and chorion [ kardong ]  .
a triangular ,  fluid - filled space normally found between the inner and outer rows of supporting pillar cells in the organ of corti .
the function of the group of barriers and transport systems which regulate the transport of various substances from blood to inner ear tissue and maintain the microhomeostasis and functional integrity of the inner ear ;  the endothelial cells of the inner ear blood capillaries ,  linked to each other by tight junctions ,  represent the main component of the blood - inner ear barrier
a space between the cerebellum and the dorsal surface of the medulla [ mp ]  .
the area located in the bottom of the permanent portion of a resting  ( telogen )  hair follicle where the cells of the external root sheath of the hair follicle are contiguous with the basal layer of the epidermis ;  this portion of the follicle is involved in the generation of a new hair at the onset of the hair growth cycle  ( anagen )  and contains the hair follicle stem cells
superficial layer of the main olfactory bulb containing axons from the olfactory nerve and glial cells
the vertical crest of the interior wall of the right atrium that lies to the right of the sinus of the vena cava and separates this from the remainder of the right atrium
the prominent ridges of atrial myocardium located on the inner surface of most of the right atrium and both the right and left auricular regions [ mp ]  .
the portion of the cavity of the right atrium of the heart that receives the blood from the vena cavae and is separated from the rest of the atrium by the crista terminalis
the impulse conduction tract that originates in the sinoatrial node and transmits signal to the left atrium
the laminar structure of the heart
the layer of loose fibrous tissue located between the endocardium and myocardium which contains the nerves and the impulse - conducting system  ( purkinje fibers )  of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
the left branch of the atrioventricular bundle that separates at the bundle of his ,  descends the septal wall of the left ventricle and connects to the terminal purkinje fiber [ mp ]  .
the right branch of the atrioventricular bundle that separates just below the bundle of his ,  descends the septal wall of the right ventricle and connects to the terminal purkinje fibers [ mp ]  .
the supporting bundles of muscular fibers lining the walls of the atrial myocardium
the wall of the heart that separates the right atrium and left ventricle ;  and is located just above the septal cusp of the tricuspid valve
the three fibrous triangular components and associated flap of the aortic valve
the fibrous ring of the aortic valve that attaches the cusps of aortic valve to the wall of left ventricle ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the posterior ,  right anterior and left anterior cusps
the three fibrous triangular components and associated flap of the pulmonary valve
the fibrous ring of the pulmonary valve that attaches the cusps of pulmonary valve to the wall of right ventricle ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the anterior ,  right posterior and left posterior cusps
the tendinous strands that connect the papillary muscles on the wall of the ventricles to the leaflets of the atrioventricular valves ;  the chordae tendineae serve to prevent the av valves from prolapsing back into the atria
the fibrous ring of the mitral valve that attaches the cusps of mitral valve to the heart ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the anterior and posterior cusps
the two fibrous components and associated flaps of the mitral valve
the fibrous ring of the tricuspid valve that attaches the cusps of tricuspid valve to the heart ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the anterior cusp  ( infundibular cusp )  ,  the posterior cusp  ( marginal cusp )  ,  and the septal cusp  ( medial cusp ) 
the three fibrous triangular components and associated flaps of the tricuspid valve
the paired arteries that carry blood to the yolk sac from the dorsal aorta
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
the bulb region adjacent to the dermal papilla that contains rapidly proliferating matrix cells that give rise to the various cell lineages of the hair shaft and inner root sheath
the middle part of the hair follicle that extends from the sebaceous duct to the bulge
the posterior border of the optic nerve foramen .
the group of interneurons within the medulla oblongata's ventral respiratory group that are important for the generation of ventilatory  ( inspiratory )  rhythmogenesis [ mp ]  .
a ring of ribrous tissue that surrounds the atrioventricular and arterial orifices
the part of the heart valves that serves to seal the heart valves when closed .
a small transparent canal running through the vitreous body from the optical nerve disc to the lens .
anatomical region connecting two digits .
an interdigital region that is part of a manus .
an interdigital region that is part of a pes .
a membranous region of skin between the digits .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a digit 1 and adjacent_to a digit 2 .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a digit 2 and adjacent_to a digit 3 .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a digit 3 and adjacent_to a digit 4 .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a digit 4 and adjacent_to a digit 5 .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a manual digit 1 and adjacent_to a manual digit 2 .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a manual digit 2 and adjacent_to a manual digit 3 .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a manual digit 3 and adjacent_to a manual digit 4 .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a manual digit 4 and adjacent_to a manual digit 5 .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a pedal digit 1 and adjacent_to a pedal digit 2 .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a pedal digit 2 and adjacent_to a pedal digit 3 .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a pedal digit 3 and adjacent_to a pedal digit 4 .
an interdigital region that adjacent_to a pedal digit 4 and adjacent_to a pedal digit 5 .
a digit that is part of a digit 1 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 2 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 3 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 4 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 5 plus metapodial segment .
the occiput is the anatomical term for the posterior  ( back )  portion of the head .
a collection of two or more connected limb segments .
the falx cerebri ,  also known as the cerebral falx ,  so named from its sickle - like form ,  is a strong ,  arched fold of dura mater which descends vertically in the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral hemispheres .
the distal portion of bulbus cordis that forms an outflow channel and gives rise to the proximal conus cordis .
a process projection from a part of the vertebra such as centrum or arches .
paired processes at the cephalic and caudal ends of the neural arch .
one of the cartilaginous structures surrounding the embryonic spinal cord ,  formed by the dorsal growth of the dorsolateral arcualia ;  it is the primordium of the vertebral arch .
a vertebral arch that is attached to the ventral surface or the vertebral centrum and encloses and protects the caudal artery and vein ventrally .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod .
a bone that is part of a post - anal tail .
subdivision of an organism along anterior - posterior axis that is the posteriormost region ,  extending past the anus  ( or cloaca ,  if present )  ,  consisting of a tail in some fully formed chordates  ( or a tail bud in embryos )  .
that portion of the spine comprising the cervical vertebrae .
that part of the spine comprising the thoracic vertebrae .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the lumbar subdivision of the body ,  containing the lumbar vertebrae .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the sacral subdivision of the body ,  containing the sacral vertebrae or sacrum .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the caudal subdivision of the body ,  containing the caudal vertebrae .
a collection of all skeletal elements in some subdivision of the vertebral column .
the fundus of gallbladder is the portion of the gallbladder which lies the farthest from the cystic duct .
the base or posterior surface of the urinary bladder contains the trigone of the bladder and the outlet where urine empties through the internal urethral orifice .
region of cortex near to the rhinal sulcus .
the major afferent track to the habenula from the telencephalon  ( particularly in the septal side )  in all vertebrates [ butler and hodos ]  .
internal arcuate fibers are the axons of second - order neurons contained within the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the medulla oblongata .
component of the parietal lobe .
the part of the lateral ventricle extending downward and anteriorly in the temporal lobe .
component of the occipital lobe .
component of the pareital lobe .
copmonent of the parietal lobe .
a subdivision of the cytoarchitecturally defined temporal region of cerebral cortex .
a subdivision of the cytoarchitecturally defined temporal region of cerebral cortex .
the deep nuclei of telencephalic origin found in the basal region of the forebrain
brodmann area 35 ,  together with brodmann area 36 ,  is most frequently referred to as perirhinal cortex .
ectorhinal area 36 is a subdivision of the cytoarchitecturally defined temporal region of cerebral cortex .
a set of amygdalar nuclei comprising the lateral nucleus  ( la )  ,  the basal nucleus  ( ba )  ,  and the accessory basal nuclei  ( abn )  .
these structures are referred to as nuclei but have a layered cortical like structure .
component of the occipital lobe .
part of fornix adjacent to the fimbria comprising flattened bands of fibers that extend from the fimbria ,  running underneath the corpus callosum
fibers of the accessory nerve  ( 11th cranial nerve )  contained within the medulla
cytoarchitectural part of spinal cord gray matter
a group of cells ventral to the nucleus of brachium of inferior colliculus in the mouse  ( paxinos - 2001 )  .
layer of the superior colliculus ,  lying just deep to the outermost stratum zonale  ( carpenter ,  a core text of neuroanatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1985 ,  pg 175 ) 
the biventer lobule  ( or biventral lobule )  is triangular in shape ;  its apex points backward ,  and is joined by the gray band to the pyramid .
a funiculus of neuraxis that is part of a spinal cord .
the cerebrospinal nerves consist of numerous nerve fibers collected together and enclosed in membranous sheaths .
a threadlike extension of a nerve cell and consists of an axon and myelin sheath  ( if it is myelinated )  in the nervous system .
axons of neurons encased in a lipoproteinaceous material called myelin .
the proper palmar digital arteries travel along the sides of the phalanges  ( along the contiguous sides of the index ,  middle ,  ring ,  and little fingers )  ,  each artery lying just below its corresponding digital nerve .
the plantar digital veins arise from plexuses on the plantar surfaces of the digits ,  and ,  after sending intercapitular veins to join the dorsal digital veins ,  unite to form four metatarsal veins .
the palmar digital veins  ( or volar digital veins )  on each finger are connected to the dorsal digital veins by oblique intercapitular veins .
the dorsal digital arteries of foot are small arteries which supply the toes .
dorsal digital arteries arise from the bifurcation of dorsal metacarpal arteries .
the mesonephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the mesonephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
a hollowed out area on the medial margin of the kidney .
the rectal diverticulum is an outgrowth of the cloaca and links the pronephric kidney to the exterior
the pronephric sinus is an ill - defined capillary network that lies between the pronephric tubules
the mesonephric glomerular mesangium is the thin membrane connective tissue composed of mesangial cells in the mesonephros ,  which helps to support the capillary loops in a renal glomerulus
the mesonephric connecting tubule is a tubular segment of the mesonephric nephron ;  it connects the distal tubule to the collecting duct in the mesonephros
the mesonephric distal tubule is a mesonephric nephron tubule that begins at the macula densa and extends to the mesonephric connecting tubule
the mesonephric proximal tubule extends from the capsule to the distal tubule
a renal sinus that is part of a right kidney .
a renal sinus that is part of a left kidney .
a renal sinus that is part of a mesonephros .
any vein serving the ear region
the highest intercostal artery  ( supreme intercostal artery ,  superior intercostal artery )  is an artery in the human body that usually gives rise to the first and second posterior intercostal arteries ,  which supply blood to their corresponding intercostal space .
the posterior auricular vein begins upon the side of the head ,  in a plexus which communicates with the tributaries of the occipital vein and superficial temporal veins .
a band running from the pubic tubercle to the anterior superior iliac spine .
an extension of the lacunar ligament that runs on the pectineal line of the pubic bone .
acute angle occurring between the iris and the cornea at the periphery of the anterior chamber of the eye [ mp ]  .
the spiral septum that separates the truncus arteriosus into a ventral pulmonary trunk and the dorsal aorta [ mp ]  .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 that develop into the folds of the pinna and gradually shift upwards and backwards to their final position on the head .
a basioccipital endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
depression at base of developing heart that contains a population of cardiomyocytes that migrate and contribute to the interventricular septum
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a carpal bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a carpal bone .
the posterior section of the developing metencephalon recognized transiently within the vertebrate embryo ;  the rhombic lip extends posteriorly from the roof of the fourth ventricle to dorsal neuroepithelial cell and can be divided into eight structural units based on rhombomeres 1 - 8  ( r1 - r8 )  ,  recognized at early stages of hindbrain development ;  producing granule cells and five brainstem nuclei ,  the rhombic lip plays an important role in developing a complex cerebellar neural system
a temporary depression caudal to the second pharyngeal arch ,  containing the succeeding pharyngeal arches ;  it is overgrown by the second pharyngeal arch and closes off as the cervical vesicle .
the membrane that covers the embryonic cloaca ,  formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm ;  the urorectal septum joins the cloacal membrane and divides it into an anal membrane and a urogenital membrane ;  the point where the urorectal septum intersects the cloacal membrane is the future site of the perineal body ;  proliferation of mesoderm and ectoderm around the cloacal membrane produces primordial tissues of the external genitalia in both sexes: the genital tubercle ,  genital folds ,  and genital swellings .
the foremost region of the future forebrain that develops into the diencephalon .
a exoccipital endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a female reproductive system .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the foregut and midgut .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
a tendon that has the potential to develop into a central tendon .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain .
a sac - like cavity ventral to the liver ,  lying in the sub - mesodermal space and closed by a thin sheet of ectodermal cells ,  from which the future gall bladder develops .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a iliac endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a incus endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a funnel - shaped diverticulum that extends downward from the anterior aspect of the floor of the third ventricle into the infundibulum of the hypophysis ;  the embryonic structure gives rise the neural component of the pituitary  ( pas nervosa )  .
the space separating the outer pigment epithelium and the inner neural retina of the optic cup and of the retina
a ischial endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a ischial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a groove in the floor of the pharynx formed from the ventral diverticulum of endoderm that arises from the floor of the foregut caudal to the pharynx .
a pitlike depression in the ectoderm of the lens placode where the primordial lens is developing [ tfd ]  .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a male reproductive system .
a malleus endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
trophectoderm that surrounds blastocyst cavity .
groove between maxillary prominence and lateral nasal process .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
a midline cellular cord formed from the migration of mesenchymal cells from the primitive knot
a small indentation in the central part of the optic placode .
either of two openings transmitting nerves and blood vessels to or from the orbit .
the pair of depressions of thickened otic placode epithelium ,  that further develops into the otic vesicles
each of the canals that connects the pericardial cavity with the peritoneal cavity and becomes a pleural cavity .
each of the folds that grow out from the lateral part of the body wall .
each of the canals that links the peritoneal cavity and the caudal part of a pleural cavity .
trophectoderm that surrounds the inner cell mass  ( icm )  .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
future brain vesicle that gives rise to telencephalic ventricle / lateral ventricles and 3rd ventricle
a pubic endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a radius bone .
a radius - ulna endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a dense syncitial - like mesenchymal thickening in the dorsal mesogastrium [ isbn ]  .
a stapes endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a vein in the mammalian embryo or the adult of some lower vertebrates that is located on each side of the abdominal region ventromedial to the mesonephros and that in mammals participates in the formation of the inferior vena cava and the renal vein
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a sublingual gland .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a submandibular gland .
either of two veins in the mammalian embryo and various adult lower vertebrate forms located in the thoracic and abdominal regions dorsolateral to and on either side of the descending aorta and giving rise to the azygos and hemiazygos veins and a part of the inferior vena cava [ mw ]  .
an extensive capillary network ,  spreading over the posterior and lateral surfaces of the lens of the eye .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a ulna .
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
an orbitalis muscle is a rudimentary nonstriated muscle  ( smooth muscle )  that crosses from the infraorbital groove and sphenomaxillary fissure and intimately united with the periosteum of the orbit .
thin ,  narrow muscle placed near the anterior margin of the floor of the orbit .
the superior oblique muscle ,  or obliquus oculi superior ,  is a fusiform muscle in the upper ,  medial side of the orbit whose primary action is downward ,  lateral rotation of the eye .
a muscle in the orbit that depresses ,  adducts ,  and helps extort  ( rotate laterally )  the eye .
the superior rectus muscle is a muscle in the orbit .
the superior pharyngeal constrictor muscle is a quadrilateral muscle ,  thinner and paler than the inferior pharyngeal constrictor muscle and middle pharyngeal constrictor muscle .
the small glands located near the apex of the tongue on either side of the frenulum
a nucleus of brain that is part of a brainstem .
an embryonic cartilaginous frame ,  the nasal capsule ,  an evolutionary - conserved structure composed of ventral and dorsal components: the mesethmoid and ectethmoid cartilages ,  respectively .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva .
portion of the renal tubule which is just posterior to the proximal straight tubule .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a lateral ventricle .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a third ventricle .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a fourth ventricle .
a peritubular capillary that is part of a outer medulla of kidney .
the hepatorenal recess or subhepatic recess is the space that separates the liver from the right kidney .
a small artery that passes through the ring of the stapes ;  while the stapedial artery is a temporary artery thought to disappear at late embryonic stage in humans ,  the mouse stapedial artery is complete by e13 and persists into adulthood [ mp ]  .
an artery that connects two larger arteries .
an external iliac artery branch that supplies blood to the anterior abdominal wall .
a prinicipal vein of limb that is part of a forelimb .
a prinicipal vein of limb that is part of a hindlimb .
a vein that drains the anterior abdominal wall .
the vasa hyaloidea propria and tunica vasculosa lentis are small branches of the hyaloid artery which fill the primary vitreous
a large swelling on the dorsal surface of the tongue at the junction between the anterior two - thirds and posterior one - third .
the terminal end of the ureteric tree ;  the ureteric tip cells are proliferating immature cells located at the branching points that induce the adjacent cap mesenchyme to undergo nephrogenesis .
the part of the renal interstitium surrounding the pelvis
a specialized hair usually employed for tactile sensation .
part of the base of the cranium between the basioccipital and the presphenoid ,  which usually ossifies separately in the embryo or in the young ,  and becomes a part of the sphenoid in the adult ;  in many animals it persists as a separate bone between the basioccipital bone and the presphenoidal bone
a costal cartilage that is part of a xiphoid process .
a bone tissue that is part of a xiphoid process .
the unique bone located in the glans penis of most mammals except humans ;  it is used for copulation and varies in size and shape by species
the ossified region of endochondral and membranous bone located in the clitoris of most mammals except humans ;  it is homologous to the penile bone  ( aka as baculum ,  penis bone or os penis )  in male mammals
a ring of fibrous or fibrocartilaginous tissue  ( as of an intervertebral disk or surrounding an orifice of the heart )  .
component of the middle frontal gyrus .
component of the middle frontal gyrus the rostral boundary is the first appearance of the superior frontal sulcus whereas the caudal boundary is the middle frontal gyrus .
the segment of the spinal cord that corresponds to the first cervical vertebra in most mammals .
brodmann area 5 is one of brodmann's cytologically defined regions of the brain .
brodmann area 6 ,  or ba6 ,  is part of the frontal cortex in the human brain .
brodmann area 30 ,  also known as agranular retrolimbic area 30 ,  is a subdivision of the cytoarchitecturally defined retrosplenial region of the cerebral cortex .
brodmann area 31 ,  also known as dorsal posterior cingulate area 31 ,  is a subdivision of the cytoarchitecturally defined cingulate region of the cerebral cortex .
brodmann area 33 ,  also known as pregenual area 33 ,  is a subdivision of the cytoarchitecturally defined cingulate region of cerebral cortex .
brodmann area 34 is a part of the brain .
brodmann area 37 ,  or ba37 ,  is part of the temporal cortex in the human brain .
brodmann area 38 ,  also ba38 or temporopolar area 38  ( h )  ,  is part of the temporal cortex in the human brain .
brodmann area 44 ,  or ba44 ,  is part of the frontal cortex in the human brain .
part of the cytoarchitecturally defined frontal region of cerebral cortex .
brodmann area 46 ,  or ba46 ,  is part of the frontal cortex in the human brain .
brodmann area 47 ,  or ba47 ,  is part of the frontal cortex in the human brain .
retrosubicular area 48 is a subdivision of the cytoarchitecturally defined hippocampal region of the cerebral cortex .
parainsular area 52  ( h )  is a subdivision of the cytoarchitecturally defined temporal region of cerebral cortex .
the segment of the spinal cord that corresponds to the third cervical vertebra in most mammals .
the segment of the spinal cord that corresponds to the second cervical vertebra in most mammals .
the segment of the spinal cord that corresponds to the fourth cervical vertebra in most mammals .
the segment of the spinal cord that corresponds to the fifth cervical vertebra in most mammals .
the segment of the spinal cord that corresponds to the sixth cervical vertebra in most mammals .
the segment of the spinal cord that corresponds to the seventh cervical vertebra in most mammals .
any of the interosseous muscles of the pes  ( foot )  .
the most superior muscles in the sole of the foot that abduct the second to fourth toes .
any of three muscles with origin from the third ,  fourth ,  and fifth metatarsal bones ,  with insertion to the proximal phalanx of the same toes ,  with nerve supply from the lateral plantar nerve ,  and whose action adducts the three lateral toes .
any of three muscles ,  the first with its origin from the second metacarpal ,  and the second and the third with origin from the fourth and fifth metacarpals ;  the first with insertion into the index finger ,  and the second and the third with insertion into the ring and little fingers ;  with nerve supply from the ulnar nerve ,  and whose action adducts the fingers toward the axis of the middle finger .
any of the muscles of the autopod region that lie between metacarpal or metatarsal bones .
part of what are called the basal ganglia of the brain which consist of the globus pallidus and the ventral pallidum .
the predominant portion of the globus pallidus in the striatopallidal system ,  which is defined by connectivity and neurochemical staining .
recesses of the kidney pelvis which divides into two wide ,  cup - shaped major renal calices ,  with each major calix subdivided into 7 to 14 minor calices .
a lobe of lung that is part of a right lung .
system pertaining to a bronchus and alveoli .
a substance formed from the secretion of one or more glands of the male genital tract in which sperm cells are suspended .
the muscles that move the eye .
any region of a nephron tubule that is convoluted .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a zone of skin .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a male reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a female reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
a substance that is secreted by a mammary gland .
a loop of henle that is part of a kidney outer medulla inner stripe .
a loop of henle that is part of a kidney outer medulla outer stripe .
a vasculature that is part of a kidney .
a tube in the kidney that collect and transport urine .
a tube that is part of a excretory system .
an organ system subdivision that is a network of vessels capable of removing accumulating protein and fluid from the interstitial space and returning it to the vascular space .
an organ system subdivision that is the part of the lymphoid system that excludes the lymphatic vessels . .
the pharynx is the part of the digestive system immediately posterior to the mouth [ go ]  .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
the superficial palmar arch is formed predominantly by the ulnar artery ,  with a contribution from the superficial palmar branch of the radial artery .
a urethral meatus that is part of a female urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a left ventricle of a heart .
a myocardium that is part of a right ventricle of a heart .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a hypothalamus .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a diencephalon .
a trabecula carnea that is part of a heart right ventricle .
a trabecula carnea that is part of a heart left ventricle .
the pectinate line  ( anocutaneous line ,  dentate line ,  anorectal junction )  is a line which divides the upper 2 / 3rds and lower 1 / 3rd of the anal canal .
a fold or lobe or pair of lobes of the body wall of a mollusk or brachiopod that in shell - bearing forms lines the shell and bears shell - secreting glands .
within the shell is a fleshy layer of tissue called the mantle ;  there is a cavity  ( the mantle cavity )  between the mantle and the body wall proper .
any muscle organ that is part of a mantle .
acellular mineralized structure located in the statocyst  ( balance organ )  of some aquatic invertebrates [ wp , cjm ]  .
a balance sensory receptor present in some aquatic invertebrates [ wp ]  .
an organ that is part of a vestibular system .
transudate located within the osseus labyrinth .
the ligamentum venosum is the fibrous remnant of the ductus venosus of the fetal circulation .
a degenerative string of tissue that exists in the free edge of the falciform ligament of the liver .
the round ligament of the uterus originates at the uterine horns ,  in the parametrium .
a vestigial structure that is a remnant of an embryonic structure that remains in the adult organism .
a remnant of embryonic structure that develops_from a artery .
a remnant of embryonic structure that develops_from a vein .
the cranial ,  thin portion of the gubernaculum .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
ossified pars articularis of the palatoquadrate cartilage .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
tissue is fated to develop into the hypochord .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
cranial cartilage which is bilaterally paired and develops as a dorsal plate - like projection of the anterolateral ethmoid plate ,  which are oriented perpendicular to the ethmoid plate .
unpaired thin dorsal sheet of cartilage that partially covers the posterior chondrocranium .
a cartilaginous joint that connects left and right mandibles / dentary bones .
the medial umbilical ligament is a paired structure found in human anatomy .
the corpus cavernosum clitoridis is one of a pair of sponge - like regions of erectile tissue which contain most of the blood in the clitoris during clitoral erection .
denser fibrous covering over one of: penis ,  testicles or ovaries .
exoskeleton or shell ,  including those of mollusks ,  turtles ,  insects and crustaceans .
a rigid covering that envelops an object .
a sheet of extracellular matrix .
a large vein or channel for the circulation of venous blood
an external ear that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
an external ear that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
a small conical pouch projections located on the upper anterior portion of each atrium of the heart .
a muscular pouch connected to the left atrium of the heart
a small conical muscular pouch attached to the right atrium of the heart .
an artery with its origin in the lateral terminal branch of the internal thoracic artery ,  with distribution to the diaphragm and the intercostal muscles ,  and with anastomoses to the branches of the pericardiacophrenic and inferior phrenic .
a process of the scapula in most mammals representing the remnant of the coracoid bone of lower vertebrates thas has become fused with the scapula .
the lingual veins begin on the dorsum ,  sides ,  and under surface of the tongue ,  and ,  passing backward along the course of the lingual artery ,  end in the internal jugular vein .
the abdominal wall represents the boundaries of the abdominal cavity .
the lumbar arteries are in series with the intercostals .
the median umbilical ligament is a structure in human anatomy .
the continuation of each corpus cavernosum of the penis ,  diverging posteriorly to be attached to the pubic arch .
the continuation of the clitoris on each side of the corpus cavernosum ,  diverging from the body posteriorly and attached to the pubic arch .
on the head of the epididymis is a small stalked appendage  ( sometimes duplicated )  .
a muscle layer that is part of a fallopian tube .
the dense fibrous connective tissue layer that covers the testis .
an adventitia that is part of a epididymis .
a muscle layer that is part of a epididymis .
an adventitia that is part of a vas deferens .
an adventitia that is part of a seminal vesicle .
a fold of peritoneum that extends out from the ovary to the wall of the pelvis .
the outer coelomic epithelial covering of the testis ;  a sac of serous tissue covering the testis and the epididymis within which the testis can move about ;  it covers the tunica albuginea
the appendix testis is a vestigial remnant of the mullerian duct ,  present on the upper pole of the testis and attached to the tunica vaginalis .
erectile tissue at the end of the clitoris ,  which is continuous with the intermediate part of the vestibulovaginal bulbs [ bto ]  .
the perineal body  ( or central tendon of perineum )  is a pyramidal fibromuscular mass in the middle line of the perineum at the junction between the urogenital triangle and the anal triangle  .
an incomplete wall of connective tissue and nonstriated muscle  ( dartos fascia )  dividing the scrotum into two sacs ,  each containing a testis .
the deep dorsal vein of the penis lies beneath the deep fascia of the penis ;  it receives the blood from the glans penis and corpora cavernosa penis and courses backward in the middle line between the dorsal arteries ;  near the root of the penis it passes between the two parts of the suspensory ligament and then through an aperture between the arcuate pubic ligament and the transverse ligament of the pelvis ,  and divides into two branches ,  which enter the pudendal plexus .
anatomical cavity for the proximal articular surface of the proximal limb or fin element with the scapulocoracoid or equivalent structure .
a joint that connects one phalanx to another along a proximodistal axis .
one of a pair of ligaments arranged like a letter x .
a region of muscle in many organs in the vertebrate body ,  adjacent to the submucosa membrane .
the galea aponeurotica  ( epicranial aponeurosis ,  aponeurosis epicranialis )  is a tough layer of dense fibrous tissue which covers the upper part of the cranium ;  behind ,  it is attached ,  in the interval between its union with the occipitales ,  to the external occipital protuberance and highest nuchal lines of the occipital bone ;  in front ,  it forms a short and narrow prolongation between its union with the frontales .
any of the veins that accompany the musculophrenic artery and drain blood from the upper abdominal wall ,  the lower intercostal spaces ,  and the diaphragm .
the hemiazygos vein  ( vena azygos minor inferior )  is a vein running superiorly in the lower thoracic region ,  just to the left side of the vertebral column .
the greater palatine artery is a terminal branch of the maxillary artery .
the accessory hemiazygos vein  ( vena azygos minor superior )  is a vein on the left side of the vertebral column that generally drains the fifth through eighth intercostal spaces on the left side of the body [ wp ]  .
the great cerebral vein is one of the large blood vessels in the skull draining the cerebrum  ( brain )  [ wp , unvetted ] 
anatomical cavity that is part of the sella turcica and contains the pituitary gland .
on the interior surface of the temporal bone ,  behind the rough surface of the apex ,  is the large circular aperture of the carotid canal ,  which ascends at first vertically ,  and then ,  making a bend ,  runs horizontally forward and medialward .
the infratemporal surface of the maxilla is pierced about its center by the apertures of the alveolar canals ,  which transmit the posterior superior alveolar vessels and nerves [ wp ]  .
the three - lobed cloverleaf - shaped aponeurosis situated at the center of the diaphragm ;  the central tendon is fused with the fibrous pericardium that provides attachment for the muscle fibers
a fat pad that is part of a orbital region .
one of several bony canals leading from the floor of the nasal cavity into the incisive fossa on the palatal surface of the maxilla ;  they convey the nasopalatine nerves and branches of the greater palatine arteries that anastomose with the septal branch of the sphenopalatine artery .
a canal within the mandible that contains the inferior alveolar nerve ,  inferior alveolar artery ,  and inferior alveolar vein .
an entrance or exit of the inguinal canal
a valve that is part of a vein .
a the thin layer of smooth muscle found in most parts of the gastrointestinal tract ,  located outside the lamina propria mucosae and separating it from the submucosa [ wp ]  .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a epithelium .
a foramen in the septum secundum .
a cartilaginous ridge within the trachea that runs anteroposteriorly between the two primary bronchi at the site of the tracheal bifurcation at the lower end of the trachea .
a smooth muscle tissue that bridges the gap between free ends of c - shaped cartilages at the posterior border of the trachea ,  adjacent to the esophagus .
the medial surface of the thalamus constitutes the upper part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle ,  and is connected to the corresponding surface of the opposite thalamus by a flattened gray band ,  the interthalamic adhesion  ( massa intermedia ,  middle commissure ,  gray commissure )  .
the hypoglossal canal is a bony canal in the occipital bone of the skull .
a gap between bones in the skull at the junction of the sagittal suture and lambdoidal suture .
on the lower surface of the basilar part of occipital bone ,  about 1 cm .
a vein that is part of a vertebral column .
the median sacral vein  ( or middle sacral veins )  accompany the corresponding artery along the front of the sacrum ,  and join to form a single vein ,  which ends in the left common iliac vein ;  sometimes in the angle of junction of the two iliac veins .
the sublingual caruncle is a site on either side of the frenulum linguae on the sublingual surface of the tongue .
a small fold of mucous membrane extending from the floor of the mouth to the midline of the underside of the tongue .
the deep dorsal vein of clitoris is a vein which drains to the vesical plexus .
the tentorium cerebelli or cerebellar tentorium is an extension of the dura mater that separates the cerebellum from the inferior portion of the occipital lobes .
a conduit enclosed within the vertebral foramen of the vertebrae through which the spinal cord passes .
a vasculature that is part of a cerebellum .
the mammillary axonal complex is formed by the axons from the lateral ,  medial mammillary and the dorsal premammillary nuclei which share a branching pattern .
a fiber pathway that originates from neurons in the posterior hypothalamic region and projects to various nuclei of the anterior nuclear group of the thalamus .
the mammillotectal tract is the collection of axons that connects the ventral diencephalon to the superior colliculus .
the mammillotegmental tract is the collection of axons that connects the ventral diencephalon to the tegmentum and pons
the median pit on the dorsum of the posterior part of the tongue ,  from which the limbs of a v - shaped furrow run forward and outward ;  the foramen cecum is the point of attachment of the thyroglossal duct and is formed during the embryological descent of the thyroid gland
the frontal crest of the frontal bone ends below in a small notch which is converted into a foramen ,  the foramen cecum ,  by articulation with the ethmoid .
paired ,  endochondral bones formed by the fusion of the tibia and fibula .
paired ,  long bones of endochondral origin formed by the fusion of the radius and ulna .
the third segment of the limb ,  including either the wrist segment  ( carpus )  or the ankle segment  ( tarsus ) 
the collection of all skeletal elements in an autopodium region .
the medial pterygoid is a pharyngeal arch 1 muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors and is innervated by the nerve to the medial pterygoid and attaches to the cranial base and the medial side of the mandibular angle .
pharyngeal arch 1 muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors ,  is innervated by the lateral pterygoid nerve branches ,  and attaches to the condylar process of the mandible and temporomandibular joint  ( tmj )  capsule ,  and the cranial base .
either of the broad curved wing like expanses on each side of the sphenoid bone in adults ;  may exist independently in the young
the handle of the malleus ;  the portion that extends downward ,  inward ,  and backward from the neck of the malleus ;  it is embedded throughout its length in the tympanic membrane .
the central cone shaped core of spongy bone about which turns the spiral canal
the osseous spiral lamina is a bony shelf or ledge which projects from the modiolus into the interior of the canal ,  and ,  like the canal ,  takes two - and - three - quarter turns around the modiolus .
a spiral thickening of the fibrous lining of the cochlear wall .
a corner of the outer  ( lateral )  part of an eye .
the extravascular space in the liver between the parenchymal cells and a sinusoid that contains the blood plasma
a canthus is a corner of the eye where the upper and lower eyelids meet .
during the third week of embryological development there appears ,  immediately behind the ventral ends of the two halves of the mandibular arch ,  a rounded swelling named the tuberculum impar ,  which was described by his as undergoing enlargement to form the buccal part of the tongue .
during the third week there appears ,  immediately behind the ventral ends of the two halves of the mandibular arch ,  a rounded swelling named the tuberculum impar ,  which was described by his as undergoing enlargement to form the buccal part of the tongue .
the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera ;  the limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm
the zonule of zinn  ( zinn's membrane ,  ciliary zonule )  is a ring of fibrous strands connecting the ciliary body with the crystalline lens of the eye .
layer of nonkeratinized squamous epithelium lining the conjunctiva ,  overlying scleral tissue
a blood vessel of the brain that connects the left and right anterior cerebral arteries .
the hemispheric articular surface at the upper extremity of the thigh bone [ stedman ,  26th ed ]  .
germinal layer of the epiphyseal plate where cells are actively dividing as well as producing extracellular matrix [ mp ]  .
the layer of the epiphyseal plate of a long bone where chondrocytes mature and enlarge [ mp ]  .
layer of the epiphyseal plate where new bone matrix is deposited [ mp ]  .
secondary growth centers occurring as rings at the periphery of the superior and inferior surfaces of the vertebral body .
embryologic structure that is formed by two longitudinal eminences ,  one on each alar plate of the midbrain .
superficial white matter layer of superior collilculus that consists mainly of axions from the optic nerve .
a thin layer consisting of small myelinated axons together with marginal and horizontal cells .
composite layer of the superior colliculus lying deep to the stratum opticum ,  that can be further subdivided into fiber and cell rich layers  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  2nd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 544 ) 
the microstructure of the optic tectum  /  superior colliculus varies across species .
a central nervous system gray matter layer that is part of a superior colliculus .
a central nervous system white matter layer that is part of a superior colliculus .
deep white matter layer of superior collilculus that consists entirely of fibers .
the outermost layer of the superior colliculus .
a layer of superior colliculus that lies between the superficial layer and the deep layer .
the innermost layer of the superior colliculus .
a region of the adult brain that processes the visual information from the compound eyes .
large lobes of the brain associated with the eyes .
a nerve that transmits nerve impulses from the central nervous system to effectors such as muscles or glands .
an epithelium that is composed primarily of secretory cells .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
hemispherical structure on proximal epiphysis of humerus that articulates with glenoid cavity [ wp , modified ]  .
a prominent unever rim that bounds the acetabulum ,  serving as the attachment for the acetabular labrum ,  which reduces its opening ,  and deepens the surface for formation of the hip joint .
the obturator foramen is the hole created by the ischium and pubis bones of the pelvis through which nerves and muscles pass .
loose connective tissue which consists of an irregular network of cells and reticular fibers and is spatially associated with myeloid and lymphoid cells .
medial end of the clavicle ,  which usually lies on the ventral side of the epicoracoid cartilage ,  just posterior to the epicoracoid bridge .
a bony projection on the distal epiphysis of the humerus that is the attachment site for the flexor muscles of the manus .
a bony projection on the distal epiphysis of the humerus that is the attachment site for the extensor muscles of the distal parts of the forelimb .
the olecranon is a large ,  thick ,  curved bony eminence of the forearm that projects behind the elbow .
the occipital condyles are undersurface facets of the occipital bone in vertebrates ,  which function in articulation with the superior facets of the atlas vertebra .
the mental foramen is one of two holes  ( 'foramina' )  located on the anterior surface of the mandible .
structural framework that provides support to the nasal sacs and ducts .
loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs .
the middle and longest portion of the sternum ,  lying between the manubrium superiorly and the xiphoid process inferiorly ;  it considerably lengthier ,  narrower ,  and thinner than the manubrium ,  attains its greatest breadth close to the lower end .
the head of ulna presents an articular surface ,  part of which ,  of an oval or semilunar form ,  is directed downward ,  and articulates with the upper surface of the triangular articular disk which separates it from the wrist - joint ;  the remaining portion ,  directed lateralward ,  is narrow ,  convex ,  and received into the ulnar notch of the radius .
the supporting bundles of muscular fibers lining the walls of the atria [ mp ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a open tracheal system trachea .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a trachea .
a subdivision of a the reproductive tract in a female organism that is the site of embryo development .
a tube that connects ovary to the uterus .
endochondral tarsal bone that is medially located and between the intermedium and centralia .
the tegmental wall or roof  ( paries tegmentalis )  is formed by a thin plate of bone ,  the tegmen tympani ,  which separates the cranial and tympanic cavities .
branch of spinal nerve that innervates the hypaxial muscles
branch of spinal nerve that innervates the epaxial muscles
groups of cells situated largely within the fiber bundles of the lateral lemniscus .
vein that is central to a lobule in the liver .
microvessel of the lymphatic system lined with a single layer of overlapping endothelial cells .
the initial segment of a cranial nerve ,  leaving the central nervous system .
a raised area of the biting surface of a tooth .
a muscle that moves a body part away from the sagittal plane / midline of the body [ zfa ]  .
a furrow or an incomplete tube .
a nervous system commissure that connects a left hemisphere of cerebellum and connects a right hemisphere of cerebellum .
endochondral bone that is dorsoventrally compressed and provides attachment site for muscles of the pectoral appendage .
a peritubular capillary that is part of a cortex of kidney .
a region of nephron tubule that is part of a cortex of kidney .
a muscular coat that is part of a ureter .
structures in fishes homologous to the cortical tissue of the mammalian adrenal gland ;  they are in close proximity to or imbedded in the head kidney .
this gland can either be a discrete structure located bilaterally above each kidney ,  or a cluster of cells in the head kidney that perform the functions of the adrenal gland .
embryonic structure that forms from the anterior gut epithelium at the level of the second somite that then matures to form the swim bladder .
a thin membranous ,  sometimes alveolated sac in the dorsal portion of the abdominal cavity .
subdivision of long bone which forms the part of the bone between two metaphyses .
a diaphysis that is part of a femur [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal metaphysis that is part of a femur .
a distal metaphysis that is part of a femur .
a metaphysis that is part of a femur .
the distalmost portion of the digestive tract ,  derived from the hindgut ,  and terminating with the anus .
the anal triangle is the posterior part of the perineum .
a gland that secretes a seminal fluid .
a specialized tract of tissue  ( as in the electric eel )  in which electricity is generated .
an endostyle is a longitudinal ciliated groove on the ventral wall of the pharynx which produces mucus to gather food particles .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the pes  ( foot ) 
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a handplate .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the manus  ( hand ) 
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a vasculature that is part of a liver .
the part of the decidua in the pregnant human female lining the uterus .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
the lateral surface parts of the external nose ,  inferiorly ,  surrounding the naris [ eom ]  .
the darker - colored muscle tissue of some mammals ,  composed of slow twitch muscle fibers .
the paler - colored muscle tissue of some mammals ,  composed of fast twitch muscle fibers .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a digestive tract .
a thin layer of smooth muscle within the bladder lamina propria .
an epithelium that is part of a lip .
an epithelium characterised by its most superficial layer consisting of squamous epithelial cells .
multilaminar epithelium which consists of more than one layer of squamous cells only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
a non - keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a parakeratinized epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a esophagus .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a stomach .
the squamous epithelium of the cervical portio is similar to that of the vagina ,  except that it is generally smooth and lacks rete pegs .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a vagina .
a glandular epithelium that lines the stomach .
any gland that is part of the digestive system .
simple columnar epithelium that constitutes the secretory part of a gland .
stomach mucosa that is lined with glandular epithelium and part of a stomach glandular region .
an epithelium that is part of a vestibular labyrinth .
simple columnar epithelium made up of cells specialized to serve as sensory cells for the reception of external stimuli ,  as the sensory cells of the cochlea ,  vestibule ,  nasal mucosa ,  and tongue .
an epithelium that is part of a crista ampullaris .
the epithelial cells lining the capsule and trabeculae of the thymus
the epithelial cell layer containing the sensory hair cells and their associated sensory nerve terminals
an epithelium that is part of a pinna .
the efferent ducts  ( or efferent ductules or ductuli efferentes )  connect the rete testis with the initial section of the epididymis .
a duct or series of ducts that transports sperm from the gonad .
an epithelium that is part of a efferent duct .
the cervical loop is the location on an enamel organ in a developing tooth where the outer enamel epithelium and the inner enamel epithelium join .
the stellate reticulum is a group of cells located in the center of the enamel organ of a developing tooth .
inner layer of cells of the dental organ ,  nearest the odontogenic papilla ,  and composed of ameloblasts .
outer layer of cells of the dental organ .
the ejaculatory duct epithelium is composed of cuboidal to columnar cells between or through which project the terminal parts of the ducts of the unicellular prostate glands .
the outer cell layer of the mammary gland epithelium bilayer which is located basal to the luminal  ( secretory )  cells and adjacent to the basement membrane .
an epithelium that is part of a uterus .
the inner lining of the cheeks and lips .
an epithelium that is part of a submandibular gland primordium .
the great cardiac vein  ( left coronary vein )  begins at the apex of the heart and ascends along the anterior longitudinal sulcus to the base of the ventricles .
a process which protrudes from the ventral caudal angle of the mandible ,  and acts as the attachment of the digastric muscle .
the stroma of the ovary is a peculiar soft tissue ,  abundantly supplied with blood vessels ,  consisting for the most part of spindle - shaped cells with a small amount of ordinary connective tissue .
the distal part of adenohypophysis: the part that makes up the main body of the gland .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
a capillary that is part of the coronary system .
a pointed projection of the skin on the head of various animals ,  consisting of a covering of horn  ( keratin and other proteins )  surrounding a core of living bone .
an anatomical projection that is part of and protrudes from the head
antlers are the usually large ,  branching bony appendages on the heads of most deer species .
an exceretory tubule that usually opens to the exterior by a nephridiopore .
a network of dead - end tubules lacking internal openings found in the phylums platyhelminthes ,  kinorhyncha and rotifera .
a type of excretory gland or nephridium found in many types of invertebrates such as annelids ,  arthropods and molluscs .
organs opening into the buccal cavity of pharynx  ( supposedly modified nephridia )  of invertebrates .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that is the boundary between an anatomical structure and an anatomical substance ,  an anatomical space or the organism's environment .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
undifferentiated cell that is produced by early cleavages of the fertilized egg  ( zygote )  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
a multicellular organism that is at the juvenile stage .
a multicellular organism that existence_ends_with a post - juvenile adult stage and existence_starts_with a post - juvenile adult stage .
portion of tissue that is posterior to the developing notochord during tail bud extension .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the hyoid arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
a long narrow tube that joins the yolk - sac to the midgut lumen of the developing fetus .
one of the minute vascular projections of the fetal chorion that combines with maternal uterine tissue to form the placenta .
an unctuous substance composed of sebum and desquamated epithelial cells ,  which covers the skin of the fetus .
a dark greenish mass that accumulates in the bowel during fetal life and is discharged shortly after birth .
the rectouterine pouch  ( or rectouterine excavation ,  rectovaginal ,  ehrhardt - cole recess or pouch of douglas )  is the extension of the peritoneal cavity between the rectum and back wall of the uterus in the female human body .
poisonous animal secretions forming fluid mixtures of many different enzymes ,  toxins ,  and other substances .
one of the first set of teeth in the growth development of humans and many other mammals [ wp ]  .
the set of teeth first in order or time of development that will be replaced by permanent dentition upon their loss .
the pit in the center of the abdominal wall marking the point where the umbilical cord entered in the fetus .
the femur neck or neck of the femur is a flattened pyramidal process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft ,  and forming with the latter a wide angle opening medialward .
the premolar teeth or bicuspids are transitional teeth located between the canine and molar teeth .
a zone of skin that is mainly innervated by a single sensory nerve .
a pharyngeal pouch that is between pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 .
a pharyngeal puch that is between the pharyngeal arches 2 and 3 .
a pharyngeal pouch that between pharyngeal arches 3 and 4 .
a pharyngeal pouch between pharyngeal arch 4 and arch 5 or 6  ( a fifth arch never establishes in amniotes )  .
a pharyngeal pouch between pharyngeal arches 5 and 6 .
a pharyngeal pouch between pharyngeal arches 6 and 7 .
portion of tissue that consists of the precursors of the pronephric glomus or glomerulus ;  derived from the medial portion of the pronephric intermediate mesoderm .
teleost head kidney consists of fused bilateral lobes located in the anterior part of the kidney .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
these folds of the rectouterine excavation are named the sacrogenital or rectouterine folds .
mesothelium overs the body walls is called the parietal mesothelium
mesothelium that covers the internal organs is called visceral mesothelium
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a left common carotid artery plus branches .
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a right common carotid artery plus branches .
an embryonic structure that will either develop into a post - anal tail or recede into a vestigial remnant of the tail .
a spinal artery that arises from the vertebral artery ,  adjacent to the medulla oblongata [ wp , modified ]  .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a midgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a hindgut .
one of the three branches of the thyroid axis that supplies the thyroid gland and branches to form the ascending cervical ,  esophageal ,  inferior laryngeal ,  muscular and tracheal arteries .
the superior thyroid artery arises from the external carotid artery just below the level of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone and ends in the thyroid gland .
a valve leafleft that is part of a mitral valve .
an intracranial venous sinus that lies in a midline location along the lower free border of the falx cerebri of the brain .
an artery that arises from the internal thoracic arteryand anastomoses with the inferior epigastric artery at the umbilicus and supplies the anterior part of the abdominal wall and some of the diaphragm .
the blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood that arises from the superior epigastric vein and empties into the external iliac vein .
a vein that drains into the internal thoracic vein ,  anastomosing with the inferior epigastric vein at the level of the umbilicus and drains the anterior part of the abdominal wall and some of the diaphragm .
the inferior thyroid veins two ,  frequently three or four ,  in number ,  arise in the venous plexus on the thyroid gland ,  communicating with the middle and superior thyroid veins .
the superior thyroid vein begins in the substance and on the surface of the thyroid gland ,  by tributaries corresponding with the branches of the superior thyroid artery ,  and ends in the upper part of the internal jugular vein .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a anal canal .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a colon .
the inferior petrosal sinus ,  within the human head ,  is an area beneath the brain ,  which allows blood veins to span the area ,  from the center of the head downward .
the medial arcuate ligament  ( also medial lumbocostal arch )  is tendinous fascia that arches over the psoas major muscle as it passes through the diaphragm .
the lateral arcuate ligament  ( also lateral lumbocostal arch )  is a ligament under the diaphragm that arches across the upper part of the quadratus lumborum .
the superior meatus ,  the smallest of the three meatuses of the nose ,  occupies the middle third of the lateral wall of the nasal cavity .
the distal radioulnar articulation  ( inferior radioulnar joint )  is a pivot - joint formed between the head of the ulna and the ulnar notch on the distal radius .
the proximal radioulnar articulation  ( superior radioulnar joint )  is a trochoid or pivot joint between the circumference of the head of the radius and the ring formed by the radial notch of the ulna and the annular ligament .
the long head originates on the supraglenoid tubercle just above the shoulder joint from where its tendon passes down along the intertubercular groove of the humerus into the joint capsule of the shoulder joint .
proximally  ( towards the body )  ,  the short head of the biceps attaches to  ( originates from )  the coracoid process at the top of the scapula .
the squama of the occipital bone ,  situated above and behind the foramen magnum ,  is curved from above downward and from side to side .
the lateral border  ( or axillary border ,  or margin )  is the thickest of the three borders of the scapula .
the medial border of the scapula  ( vertebral border ,  medial margin )  is the longest of the three borders ,  and extends from the medial to the inferior angle .
an angle of the scapula formed by the union of the vertebral and axillary borders ;  its dorsal surface affords attachment to the teres major and frequently to a few fibers of the latissimus dorsi .
an angle of the scapula formed by the junction of the superior and vertebral borders .
a lamina propria that is part of a colonic mucosa .
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a colonic mucosa .
a serous membrane that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a muscle layer that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a mesothelium that is part of a pericardio - peritoneal canal .
a visceral mesothelium that is part of a pericardium .
a parietal mesothelium that is part of a pericardium .
a mesothelium that is part of a serous pericardium .
the inferior or orbital surface of the frontal lobe is concave ,  and rests on the orbital plate of the frontal bone .
the vesicular gland is part of the male reproductive system .
the stroma of the bone marrow is all tissue not directly involved in the primary function of hematopoiesis .
the structure from the trachea ,  bronchi ,  and bronchioles that forms the airways that supply air to the lungs .
multicellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
an anatomical structure present only in hermaphrodites .
the vasculature consisting of brachiocephalic arteries and veins .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a trunk neural crest .
paired thin medially aligned bar of cartilage that extends from the anterior end of the chondrocranium to just anterior to the anterior end of the notochord .
an embryo stage that covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
of or pertaining to the period of time immediately following birth ,  or to the newborn .
the osseous cochlea is the bony foundation that forms the small shell arrangement for the cochlear nerve .
one of two subdivisions of the entorhinal cortex ,  located medially .
one of two subdivisions of the entorhinal cortex ,  located laterally .
the superior vestibular nucleus is the dorso - lateral part of the vestibular nucleus and receives collaterals and terminals from the ascending branches of the vestibular nerve .
a cranial nucleus for the vestibular nerve .
one of the nuclei comprising the vestibular nuclear complex .
a tunica media that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a vein .
a tunica intima that is part of a vein .
a tunica media that is part of a vein .
the inferior olivary nucleus is the largest nucleus situated in the olivary body ,  part of the medulla oblongata .
gray matter of the central nervous system which is a collection of clustered nuclei .
any of the nuclei that comprise the superior olivary complex  ( superior olive )  .
the inferior olivary nucleus that is the smallest ,  and appears on transverse section as a curved lamina behind the primary olivary nucleus
the lymph tissue on the floor of the oropharyngeal passage ,  near the root of the tongue
a nucleus of brain that is part of a preoptic area .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a cervical region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a thoracic region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a lumbar region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a sacral region of vertebral column .
a intervertebral disk that connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 3 and connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 4 .
a intervertebral disk that connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 4 and connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 5 .
a intervertebral disk that connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 5 and connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 6 .
a intervertebral disk that connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 6 and connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 7 .
a intervertebral disk that connects a thoracic vertebra and connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 7 .
a intervertebral disk that connects a vertebral bone 2 and connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 3 .
a intervertebral disk that connects a vertebral bone 1 and connects a vertebral bone 2 .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a trachea .
the upper esophageal sphincter  ( ues )   ( also called the pharyngoesophageal sphincter )  refers to the superior portion of the esophagus .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of an appendage .
skeletal subdivision consisting of the anterior appendicular limb skeleton ,  excluding the pectoral girdle .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic appendage region .
a crista ampullaris neuroepithelium that is part of a anterior semicircular duct .
a crista ampullaris neuroepithelium that is part of a posterior semicircular duct .
a crista ampullaris neuroepithelium that is part of a lateral semicircular duct .
the rhombencephalon  ( or hindbrain )  is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the sinus venosus .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a atrioventricular canal .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a endocardium .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a primitive knot .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a floor plate .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a bulbus arteriosus .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain - midbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 1 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 3 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 4 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 5 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 6 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 7 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 8 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 2 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a pronephric mesoderm .
a proximal convoluted tubule that is part of a pronephros .
a choroid plexus that is part of a cerebral aqueduct .
a blood vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a vasculature that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a vasculature that is part of a chordate pharynx .
a vasculature that is part of a limb / fin .
a glomerular capillary that is part of a pronephros .
a glomerular basement membrane that is part of a pronephros .
a distal early tubule that is part of a pronephros .
matter ejected from the lungs ,  bronchi ,  and trachea ,  through the mouth .
either the internal or external pudendal arteries .
the internal pudendal artery is an artery that branches off the internal iliac artery ,  providing blood to the external genitalia .
the deep external pudendal artery  ( deep external pudic artery )  ,  more deeply seated than the superficial external pudendal artery ,  passes medialward across the pectineus and the adductor longus muscles ;  it is covered by the fascia lata ,  which it pierces at the medial side of the thigh ,  and is distributed ,  in the male ,  to the integument of the scrotum and perineum ,  in the female to the labium majus ;  its branches anastomose with the scrotal  ( or labial )  branches of the perineal artery .
an artery that arises from the medial side of the femoral artery ,  close to the superficial epigastric artery and superficial iliac circumflex artery .
either of two main superficial veins of the leg ,  one larger than the other ,  that begin at the foot .
a dense accumulation of exocrine glands in the pancreas often surrounding islets of langerhans .
a duct that collects and carries secretions of the exocrine pancreas to the intestine .
thin keratinized layer of epidermis projecting from outer surface of beak [ wp ]  .
a rhamphotheca that is part of a upper beak .
a rhamphotheca that is part of a lower beak .
the nidopallium ,  meaning nested pallium ,  is the region of the avian brain that is used mostly for some types of executive functions but also other higher cognitive tasks .
a pallial structure unique to avians .
a pallial region found in avias that partially overlap regions homologous to the amygdala of mammals .
blood vessels supplying the stria vascularis in the cochlea of the inner ear .
a triangular plate of elastic fibrocartilage that forms the cartilage component of the pharyngotympanic tube .
the bony part of pharyngotympanic tube is about 12 mm .
a pouched enlargement of the gullet of many birds that serves as a receptacle for food and for its preliminary maceration .
the glandular or true stomach of a bird that is situated between the crop and gizzard .
the fourth stomach of ruminating animals ,  which is an elongated pear - shaped sac lying on the floor of the abdomen ,  on the right - hand side ,  and roughly between the seventh and twelfth ribs .
any of the first three stomachs of a ruminant ,  i .e . ,  the rumen ,  reticulum ,  or omasum .
the second stomach of ruminants .
the third stomach of ruminants ,  situated on the right side of the abdomen at a higher level than the fourth stomach and between this latter and the second stomach ,  with both of which it communicates .
the first chamber in the alimentary canal of a ruminant stomach ,  composed of the rumen and reticulum .
the first compartment of the ruminant stomach .
the ruminants' stomach consists of four compartments: rumen ,  reticulum ,  omasum and abomasum .
an anatomical surface that is part of a tongue .
the upper  ( superior )  side of the tongue .
the lower  ( inferior )  side of the tongue .
a incus endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a multi - tissue structure consisting of bone and soft tissue that forms a part of the roof of the oral cavity .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
portion of the dermis characterized by a well - arranged ,  plywood - like ,  collagenous network .
the yellow spheroidal mass of stored food that forms the inner portion of the egg of a bird or reptile and is surrounded by the white .
the hard - shelled reproductive body produced by a bird and especially by the common domestic chicken ;  also: its contents used as food .
dermal bone that is thin ,  flexible ,  and platelike ,  and that develops in overlapping skinfolds that cover the body and often the head of fish and the bases of the fins .
a fold in the surface epidermis composed of keratin [ kardong ]  .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a paired limb or fin .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pelvic appendage .
midline nuclei found in the midbrain ,  includes the dorsal raphe nucleus and the rostral linear nucleus of raphe .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a pontine reticular formation .
a nucleus of brain that spans a midbrain tegmentum .
a nucleus of midbrain tegmentum that is part of a midbrain reticular formation .
any of the three large paired bundles of nerve fibers that connect the cerebellum to the brain stem
nerve fibers crossing the midline of the neuraxis relative to their point of origin ,  on a course to from one level of the nervous system to another .
a neural decussation that is part of a diencephalon .
the stratum intermedium in a developing tooth is a layer of two or three cells between the inner enamel epithelium and the newly forming cells of the stellate reticulum .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
a tissue whose predominant feature is extracellular matrix which may or may not be highly hydrated or calcified .
fluid anatomical entity containing cells .
acellular anatomical structure whose predominant constituent is keratin .
acellular anatomical structure whose predominant constituent is chitin .
obsolete: a domain of columnar epithelium in an embryo that represents the early stage of the development of the epithelial component of a new anatomical structure .
an epithelial tube that is open at one end only .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a collection of connected epithelial tubes with a single portal .
a complex of interlinking epithelial tubules .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
a ring of smooth muscle cells whose contraction closes the opening of the ring .
a ring of striated muscle cells whose contraction closes the opening of the ring .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchyme whose cells are embedded in obvious amounts of extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
an anatomical structure that is undergoing regeneration .
an epithelium that extends its surface area by peripheral movement .
a ciliated columnar epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
a cuboidal epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
stratified columnar epithelia is a rare type of epithelial tissue composed of column shaped cells arranged in multiple layers .
stratified cuboidal epithelia is a rare type of epithelial tissue composed of cuboidally shaped cells arranged in multiple layers .
the anterior and posterior arteries created at the bifurcation of the popliteal artery .
a muscle on the back of the forearm that extends the fingers and wrist .
the extensor minimi digiti  ( extensor digiti quinti proprius )  is a slender muscle of the forearm ,  placed on the ulnar side of the extensor digitorum communis ,  with which it is generally connected .
prostate gland lobe that in the mouse has the following characteristics: grossly ,  clear ,  gelatinous ,  and leaf - like ;  originates ventrally and wraps incompletely around the urethra dorsally ,  bilaterally .
a thin ,  loose vascular connective tissue that makes up the membranes surrounding joints and the sheaths protecting tendons  ( particularly flexor tendons in the hands and feet )  where they pass over bony prominences .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a synovial joint .
a synovial cavity of joint that is part of a hip joint .
a comb - like structure of blood vessels belonging to the choroid in the eye of a bird or reptile .
a wattle is a fleshy dewlap or caruncle hanging from various parts of the head or neck in several groups of birds ,  goats and other animals .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
the lateral septal area ;  largest nuclear mass in this region ,  plays a pivotal role in various physiological processes ,  such as aggression ,  emotion ,  thermoregulation ,  water and food intake and sexual behaviour .
a septal nuclear complex that consists of the nucleus of the diagonal bands and the septal medial nuclei
part of septal nuclear complex .
a nucleus embedded within the fibers of the trapezoid body .
a nucleus of the parabrachial area ,  which in the human brain is a horseshoe - shaped strip of gray matter comprising the kölliker - fuse nucleus ,  the lateral parabrachial nucleus and the medial parabrachial nucleus .
a neural nucleus that is part of a medulla oblongata .
layer of hippocampus area ca3 lying superficial to the pyramidal cell layer that contains mossy fiber axons projecting from the dentate gyrus .
regional part of fornix consisting of a thin layer of white matter on the surface of the hippocampal formation ,  bordering the wall of the lateral ventricle and composed of white ,  myelinated fibers .
layer of the hippocampus lying just superficial to the stratum radiatum and bounded by the pial surface of the hippocampus .
the sensory trigeminal nerve nuclei are the largest of the cranial nerve nuclei ,  and extend through the whole of the midbrain ,  pons and medulla .
a small ligament attached to the superior surface of the pulmonary trunk and the inferior surface of the aortic arch .
an inconstant lymph node of the anterior mediastinal group located adjacent to the ligamentum arteriosum .
a lymph node that is part of a thorax .
a developing mesenchymal capsule that covers the developing brain and spinal cord and is the precursor of the meningeal cluster .
the innermost layer of the mesenchymal capsule that surrounds the developing brain ,  primarily of neural crest origin .
the outermost layer of the mesenchymal capsule that surrounds the developing brain ,  of mixed paraxial mesoderm and neural crest origin .
the junction between the esophagus and the stomach epithelium
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
a sphincter that is part of an esophagus .
developing nephron where the developing glomerular capsule has been invaded by a glomerular capillary loop called the glomerular tuft .
the lateral recess is a projection of the fourth ventricle which extends into the inferior cerebellar peduncle of the brainstem .
the anular ligament  ( orbicular ligament )  is a strong band of fibers ,  which encircles the head of the radius  ( bone )  ,  and retains it in contact with the radial notch of the ulna
the vein that sprouts from the posterior cardinal vein ,  growing dorsally between the somites ,  and then joining ,  and draining the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
cranial neural crest that is part of the facial region .
functional unit of the kidney that forms urine ,  consisting of two parts ,  the nephron and the collecting tubule .
region of the embryo into the area in which the kidney rudiment will develop .
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
endodermal bud derived from the endodermal epithelium of the embryonic pharyngeal floor [ mp ]  .
the minute opening of a taste bud on the surface of the oral mucosa through which the gustatory hairs of the specialised neuroepithelial gustatory cells project .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a thalamus .
the caroticotympanic branch  ( tympanic branch )  is small ;  it enters the tympanic cavity through a minute foramen in the carotid canal ,  and anastomoses with the anterior tympanic branch of the internal maxillary ,  and with the stylomastoid artery .
an axon tract that is part of a spinal cord .
an axon tract that is part of a brain .
a tract that originates from neurons in the spinal central gray and projects to various somatosensory nuclei of the thalamus .
regional part of superior cerebellar peduncle ,  located in the midbrain ,  consisting of a large bundle of fibers largely projecting from the deep cerebellar nuclei to the midbrain and thalamus .
a bone that is part of a reproductive organ .
the interphalangeal articulations of the foot  ( articulations of the phalanges )  are ginglymoid joints ,  and each has a plantar and two collateral ligaments .
the interphalangeal articulations of hand are hinge - joints of the phalanges of the hand .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 1 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 1 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 2 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 3 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 4 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 5 .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 2 .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 3 .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 4 .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 5 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
the culmen is the portion of the anterior vermis adjacent to the primary fissure of cerebellum .
a medullary nucleus that sends its connections to the spinal cord in a mostly ipsilateral manner .
the osphradium is the olfactory organ in certain molluscs ,  linked with the respiration organ .
a gland that is part of a epidermis .
any portion of sweat that is produced by a sweat gland of the scrotum .
any sweat gland that is part of a scrotum .
the teeth of adulthood that either replace or are added to the complement of deciduous teeth .
a tooth that forms after a primary tooth
a normal developing tooth which has not yet perforated the oral mucosa or one that fails to erupt in the normal sequence or time interval expected for the type of tooth in a given gender ,  age ,  or population group .
an endothelium that is part of a umbilical vein .
an endothelium that is part of a umbilical artery .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
fluids that is discharged from blood vessels usually arising from inflammation or injury .
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
the serous fluid which accumulates in the peritoneal cavity in ascites .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
the complement of teeth in the jaws after the eruption of some of the permanent teeth but before all the deciduous teeth are absent .
a small ,  paired bony element  ( more rarely ,  having fused parts )  located between the skull and the atlas in tuataras ,  crocodiles ,  chameleons ,  and many fossil reptiles ;  it is uncommon in turtles and mammals  ( hedgehog )  .
pygostyle refers to a number of the final few caudal vertebrae fused into a single ossification ,  supporting the tail feathers and musculature .
a large gland at the base of a bird's tail dorsal to the cloaca at the end of the pygostyle that secretes an oil used in preening .
sclerotic rings are rings of bone found in the eyes of several groups of vertebrate animals ,  except for mammals and crocodilians .
a region of the lower vertebral column formed from the fusion of vertebrae .
a bridge of mesoderm connecting the caudal end of the young embryo with the trophoblastic tissues ;  the precursor of the umbilical cord .
a vasculature that is part of a connecting stalk .
adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
the superficial layer  ( fascia of camper )  is a thick superficial layer of the anterior abdominal wall .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
a tail that extends from the posterior tip of the organism to the anus ,  contains muscle and skeleton .
the greater alar cartilage  ( lower lateral cartilage )  is a thin ,  flexible plate ,  situated immediately below the preceding ,  and bent upon itself in such a manner as to form the medial wall and lateral wall of the naris of its own side .
the part which forms the lateral wall is curved to correspond with the ala of the nose ;  it is oval and flattened ,  narrow behind ,  where it is connected with the frontal process of the maxilla by a tough fibrous membrane ,  in which are found three or four small cartilaginous plates ,  the lesser alar cartilages .
small cartilages of the nose connecting the greater alar cartilage and lateral nasal cartilage .
the lateral cartilage  ( upper lateral cartilage )  is situated below the inferior margin of the nasal bone ,  and is flattened ,  and triangular in shape .
the vomeronasal cartilage  ( or jacobson's cartilage )  is a narrow strip of cartilage ,  low on the medial wall of the nasal cavity .
an organism subdivision that encompasses the region containing the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
a reticular lamina of epithelium that is part of a spiral organ of cochlea .
mesentery that is located in the peritoneum .
external part of the nose containing the external nares .
a bone that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a bone that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a bone element or fused bone that is part of pelvic girdle .
a subdivision of a limb or fin skeleton consisting of bones which connects the upper limb or fin to the axial skeleton on each side .
skeletal subdivision consisting of a set of bones linking the axial series to the hindlimb zeugopodium and offering anchoring areas for hindlimb and caudal musculature .
the organ of balance composed of three long bony tubes of the labyrinth
a spinal cord ventral commissure that is part of a lumbar spinal cord .
a spinal cord ventral commissure that is part of a sacral spinal cord .
a spinal cord ventral commissure that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a spinal cord ventral commissure that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
dermal bone that develops from the fusion of the paired clavicle condensations in archosauria .
bone element that arises as a result of intramembranous ossification .
a posterior projection from proximal rib segments .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a regular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
connective tissue that is dominated by collagen fibres organized into a definitive pattern  ( e .g . ,  parallel to one another )  ,  with comparatively fewer cells  ( mostly fibroblasts )  .
fibrous connective tissue that surrounds the notochord ;  includes a layer of elastin .
a bone that is part of a craniocervical region .
a small bone occasionally found at the dorsal aspect of the wrist between the scaphoid ,  capitate ,  and trapezoid ;  it is developed as an independent cartilage in early foetal life but usually becomes fused with the scaphoid ;  it occurs normally in most monkeys .
the combined scaphoid and lunate bones .
a sesamoid bone that is part of a manus .
a sesamoid bone that is part of a pes .
the irregular bones are bones which ,  from their peculiar form ,  cannot be grouped as long bone ,  short bone ,  flat bone or sesamoid bone .
a skeletal joint that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a anatomical surface that is part of a cartilage element .
a tendon that attaches_to a biceps brachii .
a tendon that attaches_to a triceps brachii .
a bone that is hollow or contains many air cells ,  such as the mastoid process of the temporal bone [ tmd ]  .
the tibiotarsus is the large bone between the femur and the tarsometatarsus in the leg of a bird .
the tarsometatarsus is a bone that is found in the lower leg of certain tetrapods ,  namely birds .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the nail plate is the hard and translucent portion of the nail ,  composed of keratin .
a subdivision of the face that is the anteriormost part of the lower jaw region .
the part of the face above the eyes [ mesh ]  .
a bony external plate or scale ,  as on the shell of a turtle ,  the skin of crocodilians ,  the feet of some birds .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the pelvis .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
either of two muscles of the calf of the leg .
subdivision of thorax ,  which in humans is the posterior part of the thorax and is demarcated from the chest by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage and the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column ;  together with the chest ,  it constitutes the thorax .
a muscle of back that is part of a lower back .
a muscle of back that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
a pennate muscle  ( also called a penniform muscle )  is a muscle with fascicles that attach obliquely  ( in a slanting position )  to its tendon .
the mouth of a starfish is located on the underside of the body ,  and opens through a short esophagus into firstly a cardiac stomach ,  and then ,  a second ,  pyloric stomach .
one of the numerous external ,  fluid - filled muscular tubes of echinoderms ,  such as the starfish or sea urchin ,  serving as organs of locomotion ,  food handling ,  and respiration [ bto ]  .
the pyloric ceca  ( or digestive glands )  and the cardiac stomach produce digestive enzymes in starfishes .
in starfishes the cardiac stomach is connected to a pyloric stomach which is located above it .
the water vascular system is a hydraulic system used by echinoderms ,  such as sea stars and sea urchins ,  for locomotion ,  food and waste transportation ,  and respiration .
a tooth - like structures surrounding the radial canal within a tube foot .
within the mouth of a sea urchin is an elaborate five - sided jaw structure called aristotles lantern that can be partially extruded from the mouth .
a styloform element in a cartilaginous state .
a clavicle that is in the right side of a entire appendicular skeleton .
a clavicle that is in the left side of a entire appendicular skeleton .
in the giant panda ,  a large digitlike preaxial element that articulates with the scapholunatum and the medial border of the first metacarpal .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire side of the organism oral to the plane that divides the organism in two ,  perpendicular to the oral - aboral axiom .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire side of the organism aboral to the plane that divides the organism in two ,  perpendicular to the oral - aboral axiom .
a hard ,  thorny or needle - like structure which occurs on various animals .
a small wrench or claw - shaped structure commonly found on echinoderms ,  particularly in sea stars  ( class asteroidea )  and sea urchins  ( class echinoidea )  .
larval stage in echinoderms characterized by a planktonic and feeding larval form that possesses limb - like outgrowths bearing ciliated bands .
a planktonic and feeding larval form that possesses limb - like outgrowths bearing ciliated bands .
the fibrous connective tissue that surrounds the root of a tooth ,  separating it from and attaching it to the alveolar bone .
the left thoracic supracardinal vein loses its connection with the left posterior cardinal veins and left sinus horn and subsequently drains into the right supracardinal system .
the right supracardinal vein loses its connection with the posterior cardinal vein and makes a new anastomosis with the segments of the superior vena cava derived from the anterior cardinal vein ,  becoming the azygos vein .
an organic - inorganic composite material produced by some mollusks as an inner shell layer ;  it is also what makes up pearls .
a calcareous exoskeleton which encloses ,  supports and protects the soft parts of an animal in the phylum mollusca ,  which includes snails ,  clams ,  tusk shells ,  and several other classes .
a highly complicated shield for the ventral and dorsal parts of the turtle ,  completely enclosing all the vital organs of the turtle and in some cases even the head .
venoms from mollusks ,  including the conus and octopus species .
dorsal subdivision of turtle shell ,  consisting of the animal's ribcage combined with dermal bone [ wp ,  modified ]  .
a composite bony plate forming the floor of the shell of a turtle consisting of fused dermal elements ,  including contributions from the clavicles  ( epiplastrons )  and interclavice  ( epiplastron )  .
a cnida that is harpoon - like in structure and is capable of penetrating prey .
a cnida that is adhesive and lasso - like in structure and is capable of being projected at and wrapping around prey .
venoms from jellyfish ,  corals ,  sea anemones ,  etc .
a knoblike tooth primordium that develops into the mature tooth and consists of enamel organ ,  dental papilla ,  and dental sac enclosing them .
a central anatomical feature of a coiled snail shell or gastropod shell .
the muscle of the central column or axis of a spiral univalve shell .
the rumen epithelium is the tissue which lines the largest of the four fore stomachs in the ruminant animal  - cows and sheep .
the short ,  hollow ,  tubular ,  unpigmented end of the mature feather inserted into the feather follicle and thus present below the skin level .
the portion of the feather that extends to either side of the rachis and is composed of the barbs and their associated structures
the long solid ,  tubular extension of the calamus above the skin .
a feather lacking a vane and having a rudimentary rachis and a tuft of non - interlocked barbs with elongated barbules extending from the calamus
a feather that has_part a feather vane .
a hairlike feather that grows alongside the down feathers .
one of a series of branches fused to the rachis  ( stem )  of a feather .
projection from feather bard .
pennaceous feathers are also known as contour feathers .
the perichondrium consists of two separate layers: an outer fibrous layer and inner chondrogenic layer .
the perichondrium consists of two separate layers: an outer fibrous layer and inner chondrogenic layer .
an endothelium that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a nasopharynx .
a short vessel of large caliber which arises from the internal pudendal between the two layers of fascia of the urogenital diaphragm ;  it passes medialward ,  pierces the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm ,  and gives off branches which ramify in the bulb of the urethra and in the posterior part of the corpus spongiosum .
the artery that serves blood to the penis .
the deep artery of the penis  ( artery to the corpus cavernosum )  ,  one of the terminal branches of the internal pudendal ,  arises from that vessel while it is situated between the two fascia of the urogenital diaphragm  ( deep perineal pouch )  .
the deep artery of clitoris is a branch of the internal pudendal artery .
the dorsal artery of clitoris is a branch of the internal pudendal artery .
with numerous vascular spaces that may become engorged with blood
the space posterior to the glans clitoridis ,  between the labia minora ;  located within the vestibule are the openings of the vagina ,  the urethra ,  and the ducts of the lesser vestibular glands ,  the greater vestibular  ( bartholin's )  glands ,  and the paraurethral  ( skene's )  glands ,  which release mucus into the vestibule to maintain a moist ,  lubricated vestibular environment ;  the vestibule is also moistened by secretions from the cervical mucus glands located in the inferior region of the uterus
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a clitoris .
the white core of the inferior olivary nucleus of the medulla oblongata ,  most prominent medially .
a longitudinal sulcus on the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata ,  lateral to the pyramid ,  from which emerge the fibers of the hypoglossal nerve .
the external junctural region between the lower part of the abdomen and the thigh .
the sole is the bottom of the foot .
a saddle - shaped area that includes the nasal root and the lateral aspects of the nose .
the tissue that links the nasal tip to the nasal base ,  and separates the nares .
an intestinal villus in the duodenum .
an intestinal villus in the jejunum .
an intestinal villus in the ileum .
an epithelium that is part of a ileum .
an epithelium that is part of a duodenum .
an epithelium that is part of a breast .
epithelium pertaining to the trachea and bronchi .
the cells lining the proximal tubule are cuboidal epithelial cells with deep basal membrane invaginations that provide a large basal surface area .
an epithelium that is part of a distal tubule .
an epithelium that is part of a buccal mucosa .
a mammary gland that is part of a inguinal part of abdomen .
a ridge of epidermal cells that will form the mammary placodes .
a transverse foramen that is part of a vertebral bone 1 .
a transverse foramen that is part of a vertebral bone 2 .
main ,  posterior part of hyoglossus muscle  ( vs . chondroglossus )  arising from the greater horn of the hyoid bone .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a cervical vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a lumbar vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a sacral vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
a neural arch that is part of a lumbar vertebra .
a neural arch that is part of a cervical vertebra .
a neural arch that is part of a sacral vertebra .
a neural arch that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
in a cervical vertebra ,  the posterior arch forms about two - fifths of the circumference of the ring: it ends behind in the posterior tubercle ,  which is the rudiment of a spinous process and gives origin to the recti capitis posteriores minores .
a webbed interdigital region that is part of a manus .
a webbed interdigital region that is part of a pes .
an autopod region that has_part a webbed interdigital region .
a manus that has_part a webbed interdigital region .
a pes that has_part a webbed interdigital region .
a digit that is part of a webbed autopod .
a digit that is part of a webbed manus .
a digit that is part of a webbed pes .
a muscle in the forearm and hand that flexes the thumb .
intertarsal articulations are the joints of the tarsus .
the semilunar notch of the ulna  ( trochlear notch of ulna ,  greater sigmoid cavity )  is a large depression ,  formed by the olecranon and the coronoid process ,  and serving for articulation with the trochlea of the humerus .
a powerful flexor of the thigh at the hip joint  ( psoas major )  and a weak flexor of the trunk and lumbar spinal column  ( psoas minor )  .
a muscle situated immediately behind the upper part of the longus capitis that arises from the anterior surface of the lateral mass of the atlas ,  and from the root of its transverse process that inserts into the inferior surface of the basilar part of the occipital bone immediately in front of the foramen magnum .
a muscle that arises by a pointed tendon from the spinous process of the axis and inserts into the lateral part of the inferior nuchal line of the occipital bone and the surface of the bone immediately below the line .
a muscle that arise from the tubercle on the posterior arch of the and is inserted into the medial part of the inferior nuchal line of the occipital bone and the surface between it and the foramen magnum ,  and also takes some attachment to the spinal dura .
a prezygapophysis that is part of a lumbar vertebra .
a prezygapophysis that is part of a sacral vertebra .
a prezygapophysis that is part of a cervical vertebra .
a prezygapophysis that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
an postzygapophysis that is part of a lumbar vertebra .
an postzygapophysis that is part of a cervical vertebra .
an postzygapophysis that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
the abductor hallucis lies along the medial border of the pes and covers the origins of the plantar vessels and nerves .
the abductor pollicis brevis is a muscle in the manus that functions as an abductor of the thumb .
a thin layer of skeletal muscle that envelops the spermatic cord and testis of most male mammals in a series of loops ;  it is a continuation of the obliquus internus ,  arising from the inguinal ligament and inserting into the crest of the pubis and into the sheath of the rectus abdominis ;  it is innervated by the genital branch of the genitofemoral nerve and functions to draw the testis up toward the superficial inguinal ring in response to cold or to stimulation of the nerve ; 
the smallest of the three gluteal muscles ,  situated immediately beneath the gluteus medius .
any muscle organ that is part of an nose .
the infrahyoid muscles are a group of four pairs of muscles in the anterior part of the neck .
the piriformis is a muscle in the gluteal region that originates from the anterior  ( front )  part of the sacrum ,  the part of the spine in the gluteal region ,  and from the superior margin of the greater sciatic notch  ( as well as the sacroiliac joint capsule and the sacrotuberous ligament )  .
the quadratus femoris is ,  as its name implies ,  a flat ,  quadrilateral skeletal muscle .
a muscle that arises from the spinous processes of the third to the sixth thoracic vertebrae and inserts into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper two or three cervical vertebrae [ wp , modified ]  .
the iliocostalis cervicis  ( cervicalis ascendens )  arises from the angles of the third ,  fourth ,  fifth ,  and sixth ribs ,  and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fourth ,  fifth ,  and sixth cervical vertebrae . .
one of the muscles deep to the prevertebral fascia on the anterior surface of the cervical and superior three thoracic vertebrae ,  symmetrically placed on each side of the median plane ,  including the longus colli ,  longus capitis ,  rectus capitis anterior ,  and rectus capitis lateralis muscles .
a muscle in the region above the hyoid bone in the neck .
the posterior cricoarytenoid muscles are extremely small ,  paired muscles that extend from the posterior cricoid cartilage to the arytenoid cartilages in the larynx .
the lateral cricoarytenoid  ( also anterior cricoarytenoid )  muscles extend from the lateral cricoid cartilage to the ipsilateral arytenoid cartilage .
the tranverse arytenoid crosses transversely between the two cartilages .
the oblique arytenoid ,  the more superficial arytenoid muscle ,  forms two fasciculi ,  which pass from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the opposite one ,  and therefore cross each other like the limbs of the letter x ;  a few fibers are continued around the lateral margin of the cartilage ,  and are prolonged into the aryepiglottic fold ;  they are sometimes described as a separate muscle ,  the aryepiglotticus .
the thyroarytenoid is a broad ,  thin ,  muscle which lies parallel with and lateral to the vocal fold ,  and supports the wall of the ventricle and its appendix .
the vocal muscle is the upper portion of the thyroarytenoid muscle which is primarily involved in producing speech .
a muscle of the tongue that consists of a thin stratum of oblique and longitudinal fibers immediately underlying the mucous membrane on the dorsum of the tongue .
a muscle of the tongue that consists of fibers which arise from the median fibrous septum and pass lateralward to be inserted into the submucous fibrous tissue at the sides of the tongue .
a muscle of the tongue that is found only at the borders of the forepart of the tongue .
the levator veli palatini is the elevator muscle of the velum palatinum in the human body .
the tensor veli palatini  ( tensor palati )  is a broad ,  thin ,  ribbon - like muscle in the head that tenses the soft palate .
the procerus is a small pyramidal slip of muscle deep to the superior orbital nerve ,  artery and vein .
the depressor septi  ( depressor ale nasi )  arises from the incisive fossa of the maxilla .
the depressor supercilii is an eye muscle of the human body .
the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi muscle is ,  translated from latin ,  the 'lifter of the upper lip and of the wing of the nose' .
facial muscle attached to the modiolus ,  corner  ( angle )  of the mouth ,  and zygomatic bone .
facial muscle attached to the modiolus ,  corner  ( angle )  of the mouth ,  and zygomatic bone .
the levator anguli oris  ( caninus )  is a facial muscle of the mouth arising from the canine fossa ,  immediately below the infraorbital foramen .
a muscle of facial expression ,  innervated by the facial nerve ,  attached to the skin of the lower lip and inferior to the lower lip  ( in humans this region is called the chin or mental region )  ,  the orbicularis oris muscle ,  and the mandible in the symphyseal region .
the depressor anguli oris  ( triangularis )  arises from the oblique line of the mandible ,  whence its fibers converge ,  to be inserted ,  by a narrow fasciculus ,  into the angle of the mouth .
facial muscle that attaches to the fascia of the masseter muscle and the facia of the skin in the region of the corner  ( angle )  of the mouth .
the helicis major is a narrow vertical band situated upon the anterior margin of the helix .
the helicis minor is an oblique fasciculus ,  covering the crus helicis .
the tragicus is a short ,  flattened vertical band on the lateral surface of the tragus .
the antitragicus arises from the outer part of the antitragus ,  and is inserted into the cauda helicis and antihelix .
the transverse muscle of auricle is placed on the cranial surface of the pinna .
the oblique muscle of auricle ,  on the cranial surface ,  consists of a few fibers extending from the upper and back part of the concha to the convexity immediately above it .
the transversus menti ,  or transverse muscle of the chin ,  is a facial muscle that is often considered to be the superficial fibers of the depressor anguli oris muscle which cross to the other side of the face .
any of the three pairs of muscles in the lateral neck ,  namely the scalenus anterior ,  scalenus medius ,  and scalenus posterior .
a muscular partition formed by the levatores ani and coccygei ,  with which may be included the parietal pelvic fascia on their upper and lower aspects .
the innermost intercostal muscle is a layer of intercostal muscle beneath the intercostal nerves and internal intercostal muscles .
the subcostales  ( infracostales )  consist of muscular and aponeurotic fasciculi ,  which are usually well - developed only in the lower part of the thorax ;  each originates from the inner surface of one rib ,  and is inserted into the inner surface of the second or third rib above ,  near its angle .
the scalenus anterior  ( scalenus anticus )  ,  also known as anterior scalene muscle ,  lies deeply at the side of the neck ,  behind the sternocleidomastoideus .
the stylohyoid is a pharyngeal arch ii muscle that participates in oral / pharygeal behaviors and is innervated by the stylohoid branch of the facial nerve and attaches to the stylohyal and the non - stylohyal part of the hyoid apparatus .
a muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland .
an opening on medial margin of the kidney leading into the renal sinus .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a tibia .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a fibula .
a thin monolayer of small cuboidal cells that make up the lower layer of the bilaminar embryonic disc ,  beneath the epiblast .
musculature that is derived from the hypaxial myotome region ,  trunk muscles that lie ventral to the horizontal septum of the vertebrae .
musculature that is derived from the epaxial myotome region ,  ventral to the horizontal septum of the vertebrae .
the subclavius is a small triangular muscle ,  placed between the clavicle and the first rib .
an embryonic structure that is derived from the inner cell mass and lies above the hypoblast and gives rise to the three primary germ layers
an epiblast  ( generic )  that develops_from a blastodisc .
the dorsal venous arch of the foot is a superficial vein that connects the small saphenous vein and the great saphenous vein .
a limb segment that is part of a hindlimb .
a limb segment that is part of a forelimb .
the upper part of the gluteal tuberosity is often elongated into a roughened crest ,  on which a more or less well - marked ,  rounded tubercle ,  the third trochanter ,  is occasionally developed .
a knob - like feature on the medial side of the femur that serves as a muscle attachment .
the infratentorial compartment that contains the cerebellum and brain stem .
any of the three large depressions in the posterior ,  middle ,  and anterior aspects of the floor of the cranial cavity
a ridge or fold ,  such as the rugae of the stomach ,  which are large folds in the mucous membrane of that organ .
a rugal fold that is part of a stomach .
a rugal fold that is part of a vagina .
any of the the series of transverse folds  ( ridges )  of the mucosa located on the anterior third part of the secondary  ( hard )  palate of most mammalian species .
primitive endoderm - derived tissue that lines the luminal surface of the mural trophectoderm [ mp ] 
a pocketlike fold of skin in the cheeks of various animals ,  such as squirrels ,  gophers ,  and monkeys ,  that functions as a means of carrying food .
a zone of skin that is part of a cheek .
the stylopharyngeus is a muscle in the head that stretches between the styloid process and the pharynx .
the gingival sulcus is an area of potential space between a tooth and the surrounding gingival tissue and is lined by sulcular epithelium .
a lobe of the prostate in rodents that is thin and tubular and is attached to the lesser curvature of the paired seminal vesicles .
the rodent prostate lobe that lies in the triangular area between urethra and seminal vesicle
in the maxilla ,  occasionally two additional canals are present in the middle line of the palatine process ;  they are termed the foramina of scarpa ,  and when present transmit the nasopalatine nerves ,  the left passing through the anterior ,  and the right through the posterior canal .
a branch of that maxillary nerve that innervates the mucous membrane of the hard palate .
an external organ of a male organism that is specialized to deliver sperm during copulation .
one of a pair of intromittent organs of male squamates .
the part of the cochlear labyrinth where the scala tympani and the scala vestibuli meet .
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
an organ formed from the perforation between the point of contact between ectoderm and endoderm in the pharynx .
a head that is part of a embryo .
an endoderm that is part of a thymus primordium .
the superior mediastinum is that portion of the interpleural space which lies between the manubrium sterni in front ,  and the upper thoracic vertebrae behind .
anterior ,  middle and posterior mediastinum .
the anterior mediastinum exists only on the left side where the left pleura diverges from the mid - sternal line .
the middle mediastinum is the broadest part of the interpleural space .
the posterior mediastinum is an irregular triangular space running parallel with the vertebral column .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
any duct branching of of the main epididymis duct .
a substance formed by type ii alveolar cells composed of surface - active lipoprotein complex  ( phospholipoprotein )  .
a distinct rodent non - glandular region of the stomach which is demarcated from the glandular stomach by the limiting ridge  ( margo plicatus )  .
the anterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone in front of the basisphenoid .
transient layer of the cerebellar cortex present during development which is composed of dividing and migrating granule cells [ mp ] 
a concavity in the floor of the cochlear duct formed by the overhanging vestibular lip .
a concavity in the outer wall of the cochlear duct between the spiral prominence and the spiral organ .
a nerve arising from the second and third cervical nerves from the cervical plexus and innervating the skin over the parotid gland ,  the skin of part of the ear ,  the adjacent portion of the scalp ,  cheek ,  and angle of the jaw .
the first body segment in annelids worms .
an out - pocket of thickened ventral foregut epithelium adjacent to the developing heart .
a thick ,  spongy layer of tissue located under the metacarpal and metatarsal joints of the autopod
an autopod pad that is in the metacarpal region
an autopod pad that is in the metatarsal region
a ligament that supports a body part ,  especially an organ .
the cranial atrophic portion of the urogenital ridge attached to the cranial pole of the intraabdominal embryonic testis
the fetal ligament attached to the inferior end of the epididymis and testis and ,  at its other end ,  to the bottom of the scrotum ;  it is present during ,  and is thought to guide ,  the descent of the testis into the scrotum and then atrophies .
a gubernaculum that is part of a female reproductive system .
a ligament that does not connect two skeletal elements .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements [ vsao , modified ]  .
a fibrous ligament that connects the ovary to the lateral surface of the uterus .
connects the cranial tip of the future gonad to the dorsocranial abdominal cavity .
closed space within the ectoplacental cone ,  formed by the fusion of the parts of the amniotic fold that separate it from the amniotic cavity [ mp ]  .
extraembryonic tissue membrane ,  formed from the visceral endoderm and the extraembryonic mesoderm ,  which is located ventral to the embryonic disc and is connected to the presumptive midgut of the embryo ;  the yolk that it contains is the site of embryonic hematopoiesis and vitelline circulation is involved in early embryonic circulation ;  it is the origin of the primordial germ cells
tissue that consists of two cellular layers  ( parietal endoderm and trophoblast )  separated by a relatively thick nonvascular basement membrane  ( reichert's membrane )  ,  and acts as a protective layer to supports and facilitates transport of nutrients between the uterine tissue and the yolk sac cavity .
the part of a molar tooth that is implanted in the gum ;  mandibular and maxillary molars usually have two and three roots ,  respectively .
a group of granular epithelial cells in the uterine muscle beneath the placenta that develops during pregnancy in rodents and some other species .
the smooth muscle layer of the stomach wall that functions to churn and mix food and gastric secretions as well as to move food along the digestive tract to the intestines
the middle layer of the muscularis ;  it is continuous with the circular layer of the esophagus ,  but is absent in the fundus and lies concentric to the longitudinal axis of the stomach ;  the circular layer is normally tonically constricted forming a functional pyloric sphincter ,  which controls the movement of chyme into the duodenum
the short narrow part of the stomach extending from the pyloric antrum to the pyloric sphincter
a gastric gland in the cardiac region of the stomach ;  cardiac glands are fewer in number than in the fundus and body ,  and secrete mucin which coats the stomach and protects it [ mp ] 
any of the branched tubular glands in the mucosa of the fundus and body of the stomach that secrete most of the digestive substances secreted by the stomach
the gastric glands in the pyloric region of the stomach ;  the pyloric glands secrete mucin ,  which coats the stomach and protects it ,  and hormones such as gastrin and enkephalin [ mp ]  .
the innermost layer of the muscularis ;  it is not present in all sections of the stomach but is clearly seen in the fundus and near the lesser curvature of the corpus ;  the oblique fibers disappear distally  ( towards the pyloric antrum )  ;  the oblique layer is responsible for creating the motion that churns and physically breaks down the food
the most superficial layer of the muscularis ;  it has two sections ,  a longitudinal layer that is common with the esophagus and ends in the corpus ,  and a longitudinal layer that originates in the corpus and spreads into the duodenum
a transient cluster of cells in the central part of the dental epithelium facing the dental mesenchyme ,  which acts as an organizing center ,  providing positional information for tooth morphogenesis and regulating the growth of tooth cusps
the network of intersecting plates and spicules in cancellous bone which form a meshwork of intercommunicating spaces filled with blood vessels and marrow ;  in mature bone ,  the trabeculae are aligned in parallel with the lines of major compressive or tensile force
the distinguishing cell types of the lung alveolar tissue ,  including pulmonary epithelial cells  ( pneumocytes )  ,  alveolar capillary endothelial cells ,  interstitial cells  ( fibroblasts )  and alveolar macrophages
the openings in the alveolar septum that permit air flow between adjacent alveoli
the part of the airway consisting of a respiratory bronchiole and all of its branches
any skeletal muscle organ in the hypodermis  /  superficial fascia
the multi - layer basement membrane between the dermis and epidermis that serves to adhere the dermis and epidermis ,  provide mechanical support for the epidermis ,  and forms a barrier to cells and large molecules across the junction
rearmost segment of annelid worms .
unique telencephalic subventricular zones that extend from the lateral ventricles into the olfactory bulbs .
the nerve fiber tracts that span the midline of the spinal cord
bone tissue that is an unmineralized bone matrix deposited by osteoblasts prior to the mineralization of bone tissue .
a putamen that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a putamen that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all pulmonary arteries and all pulmonary veins .
the hemorrhoidal plexus  ( or rectal venous plexus )  surrounds the rectum ,  and communicates in front with the vesical venous plexus in the male ,  and the uterovaginal plexus in the female .
the vesical plexus envelops the lower part of the bladder and the base of the prostate and communicates with the pudendal and prostatic plexuses .
the uterine plexuses lie along the sides and superior angles of the uterus between the two layers of the broad ligament ,  and communicate with the ovarian and vaginal plexuses .
external gills are the gills of an animal ,  most typically an amphibian ,  that are exposed to the environment ,  rather than set inside the pharynx and covered by gill slits ,  as they are in most fishes [ bto ]  .
a primordium or bud that develops into a gill .
subdivision of endoskeleton derived from pharyngeal arches
a pharyngeal arch that is posterior to the hyoid arch .
an external projection of an aquatic animal as a fish used in propelling or guiding the body [ bto ]  .
lateral protrusion of the third ventricle .
volcano - shaped lateral line sensory organ located in characteristic positions within the skin epithelium and containing hair cells and their support elements .
cranial nerves that carry afferent and efferent fibers for the lateral line system .
skeletal element that forms superficially in the organism ,  usually in association with the ectoderm [ vsao ]  .
bone element that is adjacent to the notochord .
replacement bone that forms within or surrounding a cartilaginous skeletal element .
bone element that is located on the surface of a cartilage element .
an anatomical space that is an opening ,  usually at the end of a canal or duct ,  on the surface of the integument or the lining of an internal anatomical space .
organ that consists of receptor cells located within an epidermal invagination and functions as an electroreceptor .
the ampullae of lorenzini are special sensing organs called electroreceptors ,  forming a network of jelly - filled pores .
a retinal neural layer that is immediately adjacent to the inner nuclear layer and comprises 20 percent of the inner plexiform layer of retina .
a retinal neural layer that is immediately adjacent to the s1 and s3 layers and comprises 20 percent of the inner plexiform layer of retina .
a retinal neural layer that is immediately adjacent to the s2 and s4 layers and comprises 20 percent of the inner plexiform layer of retina .
a retinal neural layer that is immediately adjacent to the s3 and s5 layer and comprises 20 percent of the inner plexiform layer of retina .
a retinal neural layer that is immediately adjacent to the retinal ganglion cell layer and comprises 20 percent of the ganglion plexiform layer of retina .
one of sublaminar layers s1 or s2 .
one of sublaminar layers s2 or s3 .
one of sublaminar layers s4 or s5 .
area of the parietal lobe concerned with receiving general sensations .
 ( chapin & lin ,  1984 ,  rat ) : the region considered as the si cortex is not a cytoarchitecturally homogeneous structure but consists instead of a patchwork array of areas containing dense aggregations of layer iv granule cells ,  surrounded by granule - cell - sparse regions .
the area of the upper bank of the lateral sulcus that is involved in somatic sensation
the posterior oviduct opens into the large white albumen gland which adds a layer of albumen to the zygote before it reaches the egg capsule gland .
a small opening on the side of the head in some gastropods through which the penis is protruded .
mollusks have three distinct divisions of their body .
the pedal ganglia mainly are necessary for coordination of locomotion of a snail .
a lateral ganglion that innervates pallial cavity ,  gills and skin of a snail [ bto , modified ]  .
a knot of nerves in the pallial cavity that innervates the mantle of a snail [ bto , modified ]  .
the cerebral ganglia are primarily sensual centres ,  that compute information from the eyes as well as from the tactile and position sensors  ( statocystes )  .
the head - foot is the part you see most easily in slugs and snails .
albumen is the clear liquid contained within an egg and consists of water and proteins ,  among which are ovomucin and ovomucoid .
an extraembryonic epithelium that is formed by the delaminated cells of the primitive endoderm  ( hypoblast )  that goes on to form the yolk sac .
a parenchyma that is part of a lung .
a lobe of the lung that is closest to the head .
the bottom most subdivision of either the right or left lung .
the azygous lobe of the lung is an accessory lobe of the right lung .
a lobe of lung that is part of a left lung .
the lobe of the left lung that is closest to the head .
a lower lobe of lung that is part of a left lung .
anterioinferior portion of left upper lung lobe
a lobe of the lung that is situated somewhere between an upper lobe and lower lobe .
a layer of new bone growth outside existing bone seen in pyogenic osteomyelitis .
a piece of dead bone that has become separated during the process of necrosis from normal / sound bone . .
a hollow bony structure on the ventral ,  posterior portion of the skull of placental mammals that encloses parts of the middle and inner ear .
the melon is an ovoid - shaped ,  fatty organ found in the forehead of all toothed whales  ( odontocetes )  ,  including dolphins and porpoises  ( cranford et al . ,  1996 ;  harper ,  c . j . ,  et al . ,  2008 )  and believed to be used in echolocation
tertiary bronchus in the avian lung .
a bone that is part of a forelimb region .
the tip of a toe of an ungulate mammal ,  strengthened by a thick horny  ( keratin )  covering .
an unpaired knot of nerves in the visceral sacs that innervates the pallial organs as well as the inner organs .
the semioval center is the white matter found underneath the grey matter on the surface of the cerebrum .
a sac containing the developing tooth and its odontogenic organ .
the distal portion of the colon ;  it develops embryonically from the hindgut and functions in the storage and elimination of waste .
the proximal portion of the colon ,  extending from the ileocecal valve usually to a point proximal to the left colic flexure ;  it develops embryonically from the terminal portion of the midgut and functions in absorption .
any exocrine gland whose cells bud their secretions off through the plasma membrane producing membrane - bound vesicles in the lumen ;  the apical portion of the secretory cell of the gland pinches off and enters the lumen ;  it loses part of its cytoplasm in their secretions ;  apocrine secretion is functional during hormonal stress or puberty ;  an example of true apocrine glands are mammary glands ,  responsible for secreting breast milk .
a gland in the posterior expansion of the oviduct that secretes the calcareous surroundings of the egg shell .
the venom gland of snakes is in actual fact a modified salivary gland and is linked to the groove in the fangs by a duct .
the pes anserinus is the insertion of the conjoined tendons of three muscles onto the anteromedial  ( front and inside )  surface of the proximal extremity of the tibia .
in carnivores ,  either of two sacs found between the internal and external anal sphincters ,  lined with sebaceous glands and in some species with apocrine glands .
a body of a multi - cellular organism that is no longer living .
the olfactory region of the brain ,  located in the cerebrum .
a dense regular connective tissue that that connects muscles together [ wp ,  modified ]  .
the functional tissue of the kidney ,  consisting of the nephrons .
one of the racemose glands in the walls of the esophagus that in humans are small and serve principally to lubricate the food but in some birds secrete a milky fluid on which the young are fed .
the part of the chorion where the villi persist ,  forming the foetal part of the placenta .
either of the two neural nuclei within the habenula .
stomach found in horses ;  includes cardiac ,  proper gastric and pyloric glandular zones .
four accumulations of gray substance embedded in the white substance of the cerebellum ,  comprising the nucleus dentatus ,  nucleus emboliformis ,  nucleus globosus ,  and nucleus fastigii .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
the tissues which attach the third phalanx to the hoof wall .
a bony process projecting backward and medialward from the posterior border of the ischium .
the membrane separating the fetal from the maternal blood in the placenta .
one of the two primary bendings of a typical leg ,  pertains to the femur and the tibia .
one of several small inconstant lymph nodes ,  proximal ,  intermediate and distal deep to the fascia lata and medial to the femoral vein ;  they receive lymph from the deep structures of the lower limb ,  from the glans penis and from superficial inguinal nodes ;  efferents pass to the external iliac nodes .
a group of 12 - 20 lymph nodes that lie in the subcutaneous tissue below the inguinal ligament and along the terminal part of the great saphenous vein ;  they drain the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the lower abdominal wall ,  perineum ,  buttocks ,  external genitalia ,  and lower limbs .
a sensory branch of the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  carrying signals from the baroceptors  ( blood pressure receptors )  in the bifurcation of the carotid artery to the nucleus of the solitary tract  ( nucleus solitarius )  .
any portion of tissue that surrounds a urethra .
fibrocartilage in which strong bundles of white fibrous tissue predominate .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower back .
a zone of skin that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
an uterine horn that is in the left side of a uterus .
an uterine horn that is in the right side of a uterus .
a transient cortical layer juxtaposed to the medulla and the zona reticularis ;  in males ,  this zone rapidly involutes at the onset of puberty whereas this zone persists in females until the first pregnancy or later in adulthood in non - pregnant females
one of two  ( right and left )  arteries along the greater curvature of the stomach that supply blood to the greater omentum and stomach .
one of two  ( deep circumflex and superficial circumflex )  iliac arteries that supply the lower abdomen ,  inguinal lymph nodes ,  sartorius ,  and tensor fasciae latae .
an artery that supplies blood to the urinary bladder .
vein that drains left lung and returns blood to the heart .
vein that drains right lung and returns blood to the heart .
any region of a nephron tubule that is straight .
the groove on the external surface of the ampulla of each semicircular duct where the nerve enters the ampullary crest .
a germinal center that is located in a lymph node
the deep circumflex iliac artery  ( or deep iliac circumflex artery )  is an artery in the pelvis that travels along the iliac crest of the pelvic bone .
the superficial iliac circumflex artery  ( or superficial circumflex iliac )  ,  the smallest of the cutaneous branches of the femoral artery ,  arises close to the superficial epigastric artery ,  and ,  piercing the fascia lata ,  runs lateralward ,  parallel with the inguinal ligament ,  as far as the crest of the ilium .
the prostatic veins form a well - marked prostatic plexus which lies partly in the fascial sheath of the prostate and partly between the sheath and the prostatic capsule .
the pudendal plexus  ( vesicoprostatic plexus )  lies behind the arcuate pubic ligament and the lower part of the pubic symphysis ,  and in front of the bladder and prostate .
a neural nucleus that is part of the solitary tract nuclear complex .
a closed circulatory system in which blood passes twice through the heart to supply the body once .
a closed circulatory system in which blood passes once through the heart to supply the body once .
a bellows - shaped respiratory unit extending from the outer wall of the lung into a central air space .
any of the membranous air - filled extensions of the lungs of birds ,  which increase the efficiency of gaseous exchange in the lungs
vocal organ of birds ,  located at the base of a trachea
a anatomical wall that is part of a syrinx organ .
a delicate bar of cartilage connecting the dorsal and ventral extremities of the first pair of bronchial cartilages in the syrinx of birds
an organism containing a developing embryo ,  fetus ,  or unborn offspring within the body .
the uterus in pregnancy
an invagination of the intestinal epithelium that emanates from a lamina of mesenchymal cells located between the dorsal aorta and the upper intestine and constitute one of the two principal hematopoietic organs at the ammocoete stage of development .
lamprey at larval stage
one of the primary immunological organs of the adult lamprey is the supraneural body .
a mature thymus that is entirely part of the cervical region .
a mature thymus that is entirely part of thoracic region .
a thymus - like lympho - epithelial structures ,  in the tips of the gill filaments and the neighbouring secondary lamellae  ( both within the gill basket )  of lamprey larvae .
a gonad prior to differentiating into a definitive testis or ovary .
the network - like non - segmented cartilaginous skeleton of the gill region of petromyzontiformes and holocephali ,  connected to the heart and surrounding respiratory tissue .
portion of tissue that projects outward from the gill and is a thread - like ,  soft ,  red respiratory and excretory structure .
nerve carrying fibers from the vomeronasal organ epithelium to the accessory olfactory bulb .
the adenohypophyseal placode forms the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland and gives rise to the endocrine secretory cells of the pituitary
rostralmost epibranchial placode .associated with 1st branchial cleft .
epibranchial placode between geniculate and nodose .
caudalmost epibranchial placode .associated with 3rd branchial cleft .
cranial ganglion which develops from an epibranchial placode .
an ectodermal placode that will develop into the components of the lateral line system
endocardium that is part of the right atrium .
one of a group of three muscles fibularis  ( peronæus )  longus ,  brevis ,  and tertius originating on the fibula and inserting on the metatarsals
a fold of tissue which extends into the peritoneal cavity of the developing embryo and participates in the separation of the pleural and peritoneal cavities .
a posterior cardinal vein that is in_the_right_side_of a multicellular organism .
a subcardinal vein that is in_the_right_side_of a multicellular organism .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
opening in the septum primum between the two atria of the embryonic heart [ tmd ]  .
a sphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a sphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the dorsal part of the cloacal membrane following its partition by the urorectal septum .
a basioccipital endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
any suture between cranial and / or facial bones .
any suture between facial bones .
the limb epidermis is the outer epithelial layer of the limb ,  it is a complex stratified squamous epithelium .
a nephric duct is a tube that drains a primitive kidney [ go ]  .
a suture joining the nasal bones .
mesenchyme that is part of a medial nasal prominence .
mesenchyme that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
an ectoderm that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
area on the rostral portion of the soft palate rich in tastebuds  ( miller and spangler 1982 )  .
a thin fold of ectoderm and endoderm that separates the pharyngeal pouches from the pharyngeal clefts in a developing embryo .
a pharyngeal membrane that separates the first pharyngeal cleft from the first pharyngeal pouch .
a pharyngeal membrane that separates the second pharyngeal cleft from the second pharyngeal pouch .
a pharyngeal membrane that separates the third pharyngeal cleft from the third pharyngeal pouch .
a pharyngeal membrane that separates the fourth pharyngeal cleft from the fourth pharyngeal pouch .
cartilaginous form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
a small bone in the fetus between the basilar process and the basisphenoid .
the posterior portion of the sphenoid bone developed in five separate parts consisting of a central basisphenoid ,  the two alisphenoids ,  and the two medial pterygoid laminae .
the superior surface of the tongue divided by the sulcus terminalis into an anterior two - thirds ,  the presulcal part  ( pars presulcalis )  .
the axilla is the area directly under the joint where the forelimb connects to the shoulder .
either of a pair of fleshy lateral processes borne by most segments of a polychaete worm .
the madreporite is an opening used to filter water into the water vascular system of echinoderms .
mesenchyme that is part of a otic placode .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing midgut .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
a tube lumen that is part of a pericardio - peritoneal canal .
mesenchyme that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a mesentery that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
an epithelium that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
anatomical region that surrounds the otic vesicle .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the frontonasal region of the head
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindgut .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing main bronchus .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trachea .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing middle ear .
an endoderm that is part of a anal region .
an epithelium that is part of a lateral lingual swelling .
mesenchyme that is part of a handplate .
mesenchyme that is part of a maxillary prominence .
a vascular plexus that is part of a left lung .
a vascular plexus that is part of a right lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a sublingual gland primordium .
mesenchyme that is part of a submandibular gland primordium .
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a right lobe of liver .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a segment of a digit containing the distal phalanx ,  and overlapping the distal interphalangeal joint [ cjm ]  .
a segment of the manual digit containing the distal phalanx
a segment of the pedal digit containing the distal phalanx .
the bottommost bone in the equine leg and is encased by the hoof capsule .
the middle phalanx of digit 3 in a horse
the proximal phalanx of digit 3 in a horse
a bone that is part of the pastern region of a horse limb .
a skeletal joint that connects a mesopodium bone and connects a proximal phalanx .
a part of the leg of a horse between the fetlock and the top of the hoof .
a nail ,  hoof or claw .
a nail that is part of a manual digit .
a submucosa that is part of a intestine .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the trunk of the body ,  containing the trunk / presacral vertebrae .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future spinal cord .
in protostomes  ( such as insects ,  snails and worms )  as well as deuterostomes  ( vertebrates )  ,  the midline is an embryonic region that functions in patterning of the adjacent nervous tissue .
a cerebrospinal fluid - filled space that runs longitudinally through the length of the entire spinal cord .
in the floor of the fourth ventricle ,  the sulcus limitans separates the cranial nerve motor nuclei  ( medial )  from the sensory nuclei  ( lateral )  .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future medulla oblongata .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future metencephalon .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future myelencephalon .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing interdigital region .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between manual digits 1 and 2 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between manual digits 2 and 3 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between manual digits 3 and 4 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between manual digits 4 and 5 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between pedal digits 1 and 2 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between pedal digits 2 and 3 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between pedal digits 3 and 4 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between pedal digits 4 and 5 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between digits 1 and 2 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between digits 2 and 3 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between digits 3 and 4 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a interdigital region between digits 4 and 5 .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a manus .
an interdigital region mesenchyme that is part of a pes .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing left lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing right lung .
a neural plate that develops_from a future forebrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive midbrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive hindbrain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a midbrain .
bilateral mesenchymal mesoderm parallel and immediately adjacent to the neural tube / notochord ;  it generates a subset of extra - ocular ,  and other head ,  muscles .
a somite that is part of a tail .
a proximal straight tubule that is part of a pronephros .
the paired bundles of nerve fibers entering and leaving the spinal cord at each segment .
the lumbar nerves are the five spinal nerves emerging from the lumbar vertebrae .
the five sacral nerves emerge from the sacrum .
the coccygeal nerve is the spinal nerve that corresponds to the coccyx bone .
a spinal nerve root that is part of a thoracic nerve .
a spinal nerve root that is part of a lumbar nerve .
a spinal nerve root that is part of a sacral nerve .
a spinal nerve root that is part of a coccygeal nerve .
chondrocranium chondrification center that fuses with cartilages derived from sclerotome region of occipital somites forming occipital bone ,  hypoglossal canals and foramen magnum .
chondrocranium chondrification center that that forms anterior body of sphenoid ,  containing the sella turcica and posterior body of sphenoid .
the body of the sphenoid bone ,  more or less cubical in shape ,  is hollowed out in its interior to form two large cavities ,  the sphenoidal air sinuses ,  which are separated from each other by a septum .
forms around the developing pituitary ,  and together with prechordal cartilages creates body of sphenoid bone
the ansa lenticularis  ( ansa lentiformis in older texts )  is a part of the brain ,  making up the superior layer of the substantia innominata of meynert .
a pathway containing fibers from midbrain nuclei that project to the inferior olivary complex ,  as well as fibers originating in the pontine reticular formation and the medullary reticular formation that project to several nuclei of the thalamus .
a paired accessory ,  glandular ,  androgen - dependent outpouchings of the proximal ductus deferens ,  one on each side ,  that produce and secrete lipids and glycogen ,  components of the seminal fluid ;  they open into the ampullae at the level of the colliculus seminalis ,  are lined by simple columnar epithelium with large ,  oval nuclei ,  and may be distinguished from those of the prostate as they are surrounded by a characteristic ,  dense ,  fibromuscular stroma
a sympathetic nerve trunk that is part of a lower back .
one of the two epithelia which make up the tympanic membrane  ( along with the fibrous layer ) 
a eyelid connective tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
the portions of renal substance  ( cortex )  intervening between the bases of the pyramids and the capsule of the kidney .
a basement membrane that is part of a nephron tubule .
a basement membrane that is part of a bronchus .
a basement membrane that is part of a trachea .
a branch of the maxillary artery that is found in the gingiva ,  premolars ,  and molars .
an artery that supplies oxygenated blood to the ear .
a branch of the abdominal aorta that supplies oxygenated blood to the testis .
nucleus located in the midbrain .
nucleus located within the hindbrain .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a telencephalon .
ventral mesentery is the part of the peritoneum closest to the navel .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a embryonic cloaca .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a rectum .
the nasal fin is an epithelial seam that develops by fusion between the epithelial linings of the medial and lateral nasal swellings .
the oronasal membrane separates the oral cavity and nasal cavity .
the spinal root of accessory nerve  ( or part )  is firm in texture ,  and its fibers arise from the motor cells in the lateral part of the anterior column of the gray substance of the medulla spinalis as low as the fifth cervical nerve .
the chorda tympani is a nerve that branches from the facial nerve  ( cranial nerve vii )  inside the facial canal ,  just before the facial nerve exits the skull via the stylomastoid foramen .
anatomical cluster consisting of adjacent teeth constituting a row .
a tooth row that is part of a skeleton of lower jaw .
a tooth row that is part of a skeleton of upper jaw .
the middle cardiac vein commences at the apex of the heart ,  ascends in the posterior longitudinal sulcus ,  and ends in the coronary sinus near its right extremity .
the posterior inferior cerebellar artery  ( pica )  ,  the largest branch of the vertebral ,  is one of the three main arterial blood supplies for the cerebellum .
a basilar artery branch that supplies the anterior portion of the inferior surface of the cerebellum .
a organ cavity that is part of a pharyngotympanic tube .
a epithelium that is part of a hypopharynx .
a epithelium that is part of a vermiform appendix .
any endocardium that is part of the right ventricle of the heart .
any endocardium that is part of the left ventricle of the heart .
the primordial mass of tissue formed by the merging of the medial nasal prominences of the embryo ;  it contributes to the intermaxillary portion of the upper jaw ,  the prolabial portion of the upper lip ,  and the primary palate .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a stomodeum .
epithelial sense organ containing the cupula housing a gelatinous material elongated from the basement of the organ toward the atrial cavity .
mechanoreceptor organ found in oral siphon of botryllid ascidians ,  made of hair cells ,  similar to the vertebrate octavolateralis system .
embryonic duct that is the rudiment of cerebral ganglion and and neural gland of adult in the ascidians .
tubular appendage for drawing or ejecting fluids
one of sublaminar layers s3 or s4 .
one of sublaminar layers s1 ,  s2 ,  or s5 .
one of sublaminar layers s1 ,  s2 ,  or s3 .
one of sublaminar layers s2 ,  s3 ,  or s4 .
one of sublaminar layers s1 ,  s3 ,  or s4 .
one of sublaminar layers s3 ,  s4 ,  or s5 .
one of sublaminar layers s1 ,  s2 ,  s3 ,  or s4 .
the region extending out from the boundary between layers s1 and s2 .
the region extending out from the boundary between sublaminar layers s3 and s4 .
a region of the retina corresponding to a portion of two adjacent substratum layers .
the cavity of the developing embryo that is formed within the epiblast tissue prior to the closing of the proamniotic canal by the amniotic folds
the closed space containing the yolk ,  formed by the fusion of the edges of the embryonic epiblast  ( hypoblast )  and later surrounded by the visceral yolk sac  ( hypoblast and visceral yolk sac mesoderm ) 
the channels in the lymph node medulla that separate the medullary cords and are crossed by a reticulum of cells and fibers and bounded by littoral cells ;  lymph flows through the medullary sinus from the cortical sinuses and into the efferent lymphatic vessels
the dense rope - like structures of lymphatic tissue located between the medullary sinuses in the medulla of a lymph node
the crescent - shaped ,  ventrally located fold of the embryonic disc at the future cephalic end of the developing embryo
the crescent - shaped ,  ventrally located fold of the embryonic disc at the future caudal end of the developing embryo
the elevated margins of the neural groove that are located in the future cephalic region of the embryo
the primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing limbs ,  autopods and digits ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to limb connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with myotome cells .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing pancreas
a thick layer of vascularized adipose tissue found under the skin of all cetaceans ,  pinnipeds and sirenians .
wax present in the head cavities of the sperm whale .
an organ that contains spermaceti .
a biliary secretion of the intestines of the sperm whale .
a ganglion that is part of a abdominal segment of trunk .
an inter - phalangeal joint that connects a proximal phalanx to either a medial or distal phalanx .
an inter - phalangeal joint that connects a distal phalanx to either a medial or proximal phalanx .
a anterior cardinal vein that is in_the_left_side_of a multicellular organism .
a anterior cardinal vein that is in_the_right_side_of a multicellular organism .
a renal tubule is a tube that filters ,  re - absorbs and secretes substances to rid an organism of waste and to play a role in fluid homeostasis .
a nuclear complex of the medullary reticular formation that can be divided into three subnuclei: the parvocellular ,  magnocellular and the subtrigeminal [ wp , modified ]  .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a intermediate reticular formation .
a serous sac that has the pleura and the pleural cavity as parts .
a cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right atrium auricular region .
a cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left atrium auricular region .
the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex  ( dl - pfc or dlpfc )  ,  according to a more restricted definition ,  is roughly equivalent to brodmann areas 9 and 46 .
the frontal part of the cingulate cortex that resembles a collar form around the corpus callosum .
posterior portion of the rhombic lip contained within rhombomeres 2 - 8 .
anterior - most region of dorsal hindbrain within rhombomere 1 ,  adjacent the midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
the many - lobed berry cluster of cells that is the terminous of a gland where the secretion is produced is acinar in form .
a solid cord of prostate epithelium .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a primitive urogenital sinus .
mesenchyme that surrounds primitive urogenital sinus .
an epithelium that is part of a embryonic cloaca .
a specific region of the urogenital sinus epithelium into the area in which the prostate gland will develop .
a narrow stripe of cells that lies between the prospective dorsal and ventral thalami .
wholly aquatic larval stage in the life cycle of an amphibian ,  particularly of a frog or toad [ wp ]  .
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_and_ends_during a nematode larval stage .
the intersection of sublaminar layers s4 and s5 .
the intersection of sublaminar layers s2 and s3 .
the part of the uterus above the isthmus and below the orifices of the uterine tubes .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
non - contractile pouch that is connected to the anterior stomach through a slit - like opening .
a space enclosed within the laminae of the septum pelludicum ,  the membranous partition that seperates the frontal horns of the ventricle .
a thin layer of connective tissue that lines the surface of the bony tissue that forms the medullary cavity of long bones
a deep ciliated fossa on the dorsal midline of the buccal cavity  ( the region of the gut behind the mouth )  .
an unpaired kidney whose duct opens into the anterior pharynx .
a hatschek's diverticulum that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
a hatschek's diverticulum that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a division of the stomach .
outer portion of the renal cortex .
intermediate segment of the autopod ,  between the mesopodial region and and acropodial region .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a mesopodium .
subdivision of skeleton that consists of endochondral elements distal to the zeugopodial skeletal elements which constitute the proximal region of the posterior autopod skeleton [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that consists of the endochondral elements distal to the anterior limb / fin zeugopodial skeletal elements which constitute the proximal region of the anterior autopod skeleton [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
one of a number of vertical folds ,  produced by an infolding of the mucous membrane and some of the muscular tissue in the upper half of the lumen of the anal canal [ wp ] 
a renal ,  cortical lobule ,  consisting of the ascending or descending limbs of the loop of henle or of the collecting tubules ;  medullary rays are regions where parallel arrays of straight tubules travel perpendicular to the capsule and extend from the cortex to the medulla .
an artery that supplies a renal lobe .
the interlobar veins are veins of the renal circulation which drain the renal lobes .
a local thickening of cells that acts as a margin separating sheets of cells from posterior margin of avian blastoderms from hypoblasts as they migrate anteriorly to push primary hypoblast cells anteriorly to form a secondary hypoblast known as the endoblast
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the majority of the mesodermal component of the right ventricle ,  arterial pole  ( outflow tract )  and venous pole  ( inflow tract )  .
opening of the foregut into the midgut
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
an auditory cortex that is in the left side of a brain .
an auditory cortex that is in the right side of a brain .
the anterior end of the hemisphere is named the frontal pole .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a nerve connecting eye with brain .
a portion of an organ ,  such as the liver ,  lung ,  breast ,  or brain .
the portion of a kidney consisting of a renal medullary pyramid and the renal cortex above it [ mp ]  .
the portion of a renal lobe consisting of nephrons grouped around a single medullary ray and draining into a single collecting duct ;  human kidneys have multilobular ,  multipapillary architecture while mice and rats have unilobular ,  unipapillary kidneys
an anatomical wall that is part of a ureter .
the region demarcating the renal medulla from the surrounding cortex ;  end - stage renal failure may be associated with loss of the normal corticomedullary boundary
the loose collection of neurons that reside in the rostral medulla close to the medullary surface ,  ventral and immediately caudal of nvii ,  that are crucial for co2 sensing in the brain
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the epithelium of the ureter
the main olfactory bulb has a multi - layered cellular architecture .
a narrow layer of cells located between the granule cell layer and hilus of the dentate gyrus ,  where adult neurogenesis occurs .
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
a vertebrate nasal chemosensory system that is responsible for detecting intraspecific pheromonal cues as well as environmental odorants
cranial ectodermal placode with potential to develop into a component of the nervous system ,  such as nerves or ganglia .
a specialised sensory organ located in the subepidermal connective tissue at the rostral end of late larval and adult amphioxus .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a urinary bladder .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a oropharynx .
a circular muscle layer of muscular coat that is part of a esophagus .
a gland that discharges its secretion through a duct opening on an internal or external surface of the body ,  as a lacrimal gland .
excretory gland situated in the basal article of the antennal peduncle .
excretory organ in maxillary segment with duct opening on maxilla .
a gland found in some arthropods ,  for collecting and excreting urine .
a conducting pathway in the conducting tissue of heart through which electrical activity spreads from the sa node to the av node .
an epithelium that is part of a pancreatic duct .
one of the gastric glands that secretes the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice [ stedman's ]  .
the junction between the ureter and the renal pelvis of the kidney
the valve - like structure found at the site of entry of the ureter into the urinary bladder ,  normally displays an oblique angulation through the detrusor to avoid reflux of urine up the ureters and the kidney
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a rathke's pouch .
an intrinsic circulatory network that transports hormones from the median eminence of the hypothalamus to the adenohypophysis .
predeciduous teeth present at birth .
an articular prominence of a bone ,  typically present in pairs ,  resembling a pair of knuckles .
a condyle that is part of a distal epiphysis of femur .
the medial condyle is one of the two projections on the lower extremity of femur .
the lateral condyle is one of the two projections on the lower extremity of femur .
the lateral epicondyle of the femur ,  smaller and less prominent than the medial epicondyle ,  gives attachment to the fibular collateral ligament of the knee - joint .
the medial epicondyle of the femur is a bony protrusion located on the medial side of the bone's distal end .
the distal end of the humerus ,  including the trochlea ,  capitulum and the olecranon ,  coronoid and radial fossae
one of the lateral or medial condyles of the tibia .
the medial condyle is the medial portion of the upper extremity of tibia .
the lateral condyle is the lateral portion of the upper extremity of tibia .
the ganglion found on the root of each cranial nerve ,  containing the cell bodies of afferent  ( sensory )  neurons .
a chorionic villus that is a solid outgrowth of the cytotrophoblast that protrudes into the syncytiotrophoblast .
a chorionic villus that is has a core of loose connective tissue ,  which in humans grows into the primary villi about the third week of development .
tertiary chorionic villi contain embryonic blood vessels that develop from mesenchymal cells in the loose connective tissue core .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
a small cluster of cells of various types which form a discrete structure ,  largely delimited by a morphological boundary and whose components work together to make the whole structure capable of a specific function .
corpuscular ,  organoid structures composed of pnecs ,  found as distinctive innervated clusters only within intrapulmonary airways ,  where they appear concentrated at airway branch points ;  nebs reach from the basement membrane to the airway lumen and are thought to function as oxygen sensors .
the vascularized and branched structures arising from the rodent trophoblast - derived epithelium that allow an increase its surface area for the efficient exchange of nutrients and wastes between the maternal and fetal circulation
the spaces of the placenta occupied by maternal blood ,  into which the fetal labyrinth villi project
the spaces of the placenta occupied by fetal blood ,  primarily within the fetal labyrinth villi
round structure consisting of chorionic villi [ pmid ]  .
a regional part of brain consisting of multiple brain regions that are not related through a simple volummetric part of hierarchy ,  e .g . ,  basal ganglia [ nif ]  .
a group of neurons in the basal forebrain that has wide projections to the neocortex and is rich in acetylcholine and choline acetyltransferase .
subcortical masses of gray matter in the forebrain and midbrain that are richly interconnected and so viewed as a functional system .
an elongate paired tissue ventral to the kidneys and partialy enveloping the anterior gonads in elasmobranchii .
the ventralmost of the two bodies of the elasmopbranch hemopoietic organ betweean the esophageal mucosa and muscularis
coiled structure in the lumen of the small intestine that increases the length of the route through the digestive tract .
a series of crescentic folds of mucous membrane somewhat spirally arranged on the interior of the gallbladder and continuing into the cystic duct
the spiral valve alternately blocks & unblocks the entrances to the left and right pulmonary arches  ( sending unoxygenated blood to the skin & lungs )  .
a small hole behind each eye that opens to the mouth in some fish .
the dorsal portion of the embryonic first endodermal pharyngeal pouch ;  it develops into the middle ear cavity .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
the portion of the tongue in front of the terminal sulcus .
the posterior tongue ,  or pharyngeal part ,  is the part of the tongue behind the terminal sulcus .
a single midventral prominence deriving from the ventral bases of pharyngeal arches 2 ,  3 and 4  -  provides the covering of the posterior of the tongue  /  / the furcula is at first separated from the tuberculum impar by a depression ,  but later by a ridge ,  the copula ,  formed by the forward growth and fusion of the ventral ends of the second ,  third ,  and part of the fourth branchial arches [ wp ]  .
a group of cells located ventral to the decussation of the superior cerebellar peduncle in the mouse  (  paxinos - 2001  )  and rat  (  swanson - 1998  ) 
the fundus glands  ( or fundic glands ,  or gastric glands )  are found in the body and fundus of the stomach .
an organ of the digestive tract that is capable of retaining and storing food
am epithelium that lines the stomach which lacks glands .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch maxillary component .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
a gland situated on the upper lip posterior to the eye ,  found in non - venomous snakes .
oral gland in reptiles situated immediately above the lip .
oral gland in reptiles situated immediately below the lip .
the dosralmost of the two bodies of the elasmopbranch hemopoietic organ betweean the esophageal mucosa and muscularis
a mucosa that is part of a dorsum of tongue .
any organ that plays a role in the process of echolocation .
a malleus endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a stapes endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a compound organ that has the potential to develop into a tongue .
on the lateral wall of the nasal part of the pharynx is the pharyngeal opening of auditory tube  ( pharyngeal ostium )  ,  somewhat triangular in shape ,  and bounded behind by a firm prominence ,  the torus or cushion ,  caused by the medial end of the cartilage of the tube which elevates the mucous membrane .
an anatomical space with at least one opening to another space or the exterior .
the tympanic part of the temporal bone is a curved plate of bone lying below the squama and in front of the mastoid process .
a portion of the external acoustic meatus epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
the intermediate fibrous layer of the tympanic membrane .
organ system subdivision that consists primarily of chromaffin cells and their supporting structures .
one of the 5 distinct and partially overlapping functional domains of the premigratory neural crest .
tissue cavity consisting of intercommunicating trabecular spaces in the cancellous bone .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
an extrahepatic bile duct that has the potential to develop into a common hepatic duct .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a structure that will develop into a diaphragm .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a falx cerebri .
a multi - tissue structure that has the potential to develop into a meninx of hindbrain .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a metencephalon .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a myelencephalon .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a facial nucleus .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a inferior salivatory nucleus .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a superior salivatory nucleus .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a nucleus ambiguus .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a dorsal motor nucleus of vagus nerve .
a ganglion that has the potential to develop into a pterygopalatine ganglion .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the autopod  ( e .g .
any portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of the conducting system of heart or the purkinje fibers .
a small blood vessel in the abdomen that supplies blood directly to the pylorus  ( distal part of the stomach )  and proximal part of the duodenum ,  and indirectly to the pancreatic head  ( via the anterior and posterior superior pancreaticoduodenal arteries )  .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and that release hormones in response to neural stimuli
a circumventricular organ that is capable of secreting substances into the cerebrospinal fluid .
a circumventricular organ that is capable of monitoring the levels of substances to the cerebrospinal fluid .
an epithelial sheet is a flat surface consisting of closely packed epithelial cells .
a polarized epithelium is an epithelium where the epithelial sheet is oriented with respect to the planar axis .
a sex cord that is part of a indifferent gonad .
a bodily secretion that is produced by a seminal vesicle .
the numerous mucous - secreting glands found in several female mammalian species  ( including rodents and humans )  on the anterior wall of the vagina ,  around the lower end of the urethra ,  and possessing a common paraurethral duct which opens  ( on each side )  near the external urethral orifice ;  they are homologous with the prostate gland in males ,  have highly variable anatomy ,  and are believed to be the source of the female ejaculate ,  a lubricating fluid with a similar consistency to male prostatic fluid that is expelled through the urethra during sexual stimulation ;  like the male prostate ,  these glands are susceptible to infection  ( skenitis )  ,  cyst development ,  and cancer
the skene's ducts are a pair of ducts leading from the skene's glands to the surface of the vulva ,  to the left and right of the urethral opening .
any gland ,  other than the gonad ,  associated with the genital tract ,  such as the ampulla of the ductus deferens and the bulbourethral ,  prostate and vesicular glands of the male .
a gelatinous secretion used in the mating of some species .
one of a pair of ducts leading from the bartholin's glands to the surface of the vulva
a duct that is part of a bulbo - urethral gland .
a mucous secretion that is produced by glands in the epidermis .
the inner mucosa of the fourth stomach chamber of a ruminant produces rennet .
unites the mastoid process of the temporal with the region of the mastoid angle of the parietal [ wp:squamosal_suture ]  .
the sphenofrontal suture is the cranial suture between the sphenoid bone and the frontal bone .
the sphenoparietal suture is the cranial suture between the sphenoid bone and the parietal bone .
the sphenozygomatic suture is the cranial suture between the sphenoid bone and the zygomatic bone .
the occipitomastoid suture is the cranial suture between the occipital bone and the mastoid portion of the temporal bone .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a lymphatic vessel .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a blood vessel .
the distal end of the tail
the eyebrow is an area of thick ,  delicate hairs above the eye that follows the shape of the lower margin of the brow ridges .
an anatomical cluster that composed_primarily_of a strand of hair .
a collection of hairs that is part of a face .
the collection of hair that grows on the chin ,  cheeks and neck of human beings .
a collection of hair on face that is part of a eyelash .
facial hair grown on the outer surface of the upper lip .
a strand of hair that is part of a face .
the portion of the left ventricular outflow tract delineated by the sinotubular ridge superiorly and the bases of the valve leaflets inferiorly ;  it comprises the aortic sinuses ,  the aortic valve leaflets ,  the commissures ,  and the interleaflet triangles
the point in the ascending aorta where the aortic sinuses end and the aorta becomes a tubular structure
a phagocytic sleeve that is part of a sheathed arteriole of the spleen ,  and is sometimes referred to as a splenic ellipsoid .
a vein or veins draining a bone and emerging from a nutrient foramen .
the medullary or nutrient artery ,  usually accompanied by one or two veins ,  sends branches upward and downward to the bone marrow ,  which ramify in the medullary membrane ,  and give twigs to the adjoining canals .
the straight venules of kidney are branches from the plexuses at the apices of the medullary pyramids ,  formed by the terminations of the arteriae rectae .
a trabecula that is part of a liver
a structure formed from the primary sex cords in females ,  counterpart of the rete testis in males .
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the penile urethra
an urethral gland that is part of a female urethra .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
the paired arterial structures of the embryo that supplies each developing somite via efferent segmental arteries ;  the dorsal aortae articulate with the umbilical arteries ,  which return mixed blood to the villi of the chorion for reoxygenation
one of the laterally paired arteries that supply the gonads .
a portal vein that empties into capillaries within the kidneys .
a portal system that begins in capillaries in the wall of the digestive tract and and runs as the hepatic portal vein to the liver .
a portal system that transports blood returning from capillary beds within tail or hindlimbs through paired renal portal veins that empty into capillaries within the kidneys .
the initial part of the entire common carotid artery ending with the point where the artery bifurcates into an external carotid artery and an internal carotid artery .
a segment of the embryonic dorsal aorta between points of juncture with the third and fourth arch arteries ;  it regresses early in development to allow the carotid axis to take its definitive appearance .
an anatomical boundary that corresponds to some physical discontinuity .
the lateral line consists of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  located superficially on the skin or just under the skin in fluid - filled canals on the head and body of all fishes and most amphibians .
a vasculature that is part of a post - anal tail .
one of the several veins that drain the mesencephalon ;  the posterior ones are tributaries to the great cerebral vein ;  the lateral ones are tributaries to the basal vein .
a fold of the mucous membrane of the conjunctiva in many animals .
the plica semilunaris is a small fold of bulbar conjunctiva on the medial canthus of the eye .
a semisolid gelatinous mass of coagulated blood that consists of red blood cells ,  white blood cells ,  and platelets entrapped in a fibrin network .
highly vascularized tissue that replaces the initial fibrin clot in a wound .
apparatus located between the lungs and the buccal cavity .
paired primordial elevations ,  on either side of the embryonic larynx ,  within which the arytenoid cartilages are formed
a pupil that is part of a left eye .
a pupil that is part of a right eye .
a nuclear complex which in mammals consists of four parts ,  the hypothalamus ,  epithalamus ,  ventral thalamus ,  and dorsal thalamus [ wp , modified ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
a portion of organism substance that is produced a rumen .
a muscular structure at the lower end of the esophagus that ,  when closed ,  forms a tube allowing milk to go directly into the abomasum .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
the connective tissue that supports the lobules and follicles of the thyroid gland .
the palatopharyngeus or palatopharyngeal or pharyngopalatinus muscle is a long ,  fleshy fasciculus ,  narrower in the middle than at either end ,  forming ,  with the mucous membrane covering its surface ,  the palatopharyngeal arch .
the musculus uvulae  ( azygos uvulae )  is a muscle of the soft palate .
a fleshy protuberance at the pylorus of some species such as ruminants and pigs ,  that projects into the lumen of the pyloric canal
a variant of the ascending colon in ruminants and pigs .
a salivary gland best developed in carnivores ;  located above the zygomatic arch and below the eye .
the racemose ,  mucous or serous glands in the submucous tissue of the cheeks
an exocrine gland whose secretions are excreted via exocytosis from secretory cells into an epithelial - walled duct or ducts and thence onto a bodily surface or into the lumen ;  the gland releases its product and no part of the gland is lost or damaged .
a tapetum lucidum that is part of the choroid .
a tapetum lucidum that is part of the retina ,  within the cytoplasm of the retinal epithelium
a choroid tapetum lucidum that is made of a palisade of cells containing stacks of flat hexagonal crystals of guanine
a choroid tapetum lucidum that consists of layers of cells containing organized ,  highly refractive crystals .
a choroid tapetum lucidum that is an array of extracellular fibers .
the posterior meningeal artery are small vessels which are branches of the ascending pharyngeal artery which supply the dura mater .
the middle meningeal artery is typically the third branch of the first part  ( retromandibular part )  of the maxillary artery ;  one of the two terminal branches of the external carotid artery .
a meningeal branch to the dura mater arising from the anterior ethmoidal artery .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 3rd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
one of the three blood vessels ,  usually one large umbilical vein and two small umbilical arteries ,  buried within wharton's jelly ,  that transport blood to and from the placenta ,  where exchange between the mother and fetus takes place ;  the umbilical vein carries oxygenated ,  nutrient - rich blood from the placenta to the fetus ,  and the umbilical arteries carry deoxygenated ,  nutrient - depleted blood from the fetus to the placenta .
the most posterior portion of the inferior frontal gyrus of the frontal lobe in the brain .
embryoid bodies are structures resembling embryos ,  occurring in several types of germ cell tumors .
an organ of the digestive tract of arthropods and molluscs .
digestive gland of crustaceans with functions approximately analogous to liver and pancreas of vertebrates  -  enzyme secretion ,  food absorption and storage .
cranial nerve vi innervated ;  ventral and posterior to the eye .
a group of bones comprised of hyoid body and two pairs of cornua  ( i .e .
a zone of bone organ that is part of a hyoid bone .
any anatomical space that is part of a vertebral column .
the part of the embryonic mesentery which connects the embryonic heart with the body wall in front and the foregut behind .
there are two pericardial sinuses: transverse and oblique .
the cul - de - sac enclosed between the limbs of the inverted u of the venous mesocardium lies behind the left atrium .
a minute orifice on the summit of the papillae lacrimales ,  which is the commencement point of the lacrimal canaliculi .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
circular cartilage ringing the posterior portion of the eye in the sclera .
a bony plate around the eyes ,  are situated at the corneal - scleral limbus .
the episclera is the outermost layer of the sclera .
on the external surface of the optic choroid is a thin membrane ,  the suprachoroid lamina ,  composed of delicate non - vascular lamellae - each lamella consisting of a network of fine elastic fibers among which are branched pigment cells .
an endothelium that is part of a sclera .
a stroma that is part of a sclera .
mesenchyme surrounding the developing optic cup which develops into the sclera .
a single extraembryonic epithelium ,  which closes the germband dorsally .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesizes but does not accumulate keratin .
one of the three major regions of the conjunctiva .
the conjunctiva covering the anterior surface of the sclera and the surface epithelium of the cornea .
the space formed by the junction of the bulbar and palpebral portions of the conjunctiva ,  that of the upper lid being the superior conjunctival fornix  ( fornix conjunctivae superior )  and that of the lower lid ,  the inferior conjunctival fornix  ( fornix conjunctivae inferior )  ;  the fornix is loose and flexible ,  allowing the free movement of the lids and eyeball .
scleral element located at the posterior pole of the scleral cartilage surrounding the foramen through which the optic nerve fibers pass .
an ossified element investing the upper eyelid .
thin cartilage element that stiffens the nictitating membrane .
a sesamoid bone that lies adjacent to the tendon of one of the muscles responsible for adducting the nictitating membrane  ( the pyramidal nictitating muscle ) 
developing anatomical structure that develops into the eyeball and associated structures .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
cranial skeleton derived from neural crest cells .
permanent cartilage structure projecting from the site of origin of the recti muscles .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb / fin bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing eyelid .
an epithelium that is part of a handplate .
mesenchyme that is part of a extraembryonic membrane .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a maxillary process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a maxillary process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 3rd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
a otic capsule endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
the first step in ossification of the cartilage is that the cartilage cells ,  at the point where ossification is commencing and which is termed a ossification center ,  enlarge and arrange themselves in rows .
a primary ossification center is the first area of a bone to start ossifying .
a secondary ossification center is the area of ossification that appears after the primary ossification center has already appeared  -  most of which appear during the postnatal and adolescent years .
an arch - shaped structure of the vertebra that extends dorsally  ( neural arch )  or ventrally  ( hemal arch )  from the vertebral centrum
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones are connected by bone .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes indirect development and includes elements that develop as a replacement or substitution of other elements or tissues .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes direct development and includes elements that either develop in association with the basement membrane of the ectoderm or are homologous with such elements ;  includes dermatocranium ,  components of the appendicular skeleton ,  teeth and tooth - like elements of the oropharynx ,  and integumentary elements .
skeletal tissue that is part of the exoskeleton and derived from an odontogenic papilla .
a vasculature that is part of a conjunctiva .
a vein that is part of a conjunctiva .
the smallest anatomical unit of the lung ,  measuring 0 .50 to 2 .00 cm in diameter .
a unit of lung supplied by three to five terminal bronchioles and contained by fibrous septa .
one of the veins of the lower leg ;  empty into the popliteal vein
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
in the ethmoid bone ,  a curved lamina ,  the uncinate process ,  projects downward and backward from this part of the labyrinth ;  it forms a small part of the medial wall of the maxillary sinus ,  and articulates with the ethmoidal process of the inferior nasal concha .
in the head of the pancreas ,  the angle of junction of the lower and left lateral borders forms a prolongation ,  termed the uncinate process .
mesenchyme that develops_from a somatopleure .
mesenchyme that develops_from a splanchnopleure .
the superior tarsal muscle is a smooth muscle adjoining the levator palpebrae superioris muscle that helps to raise the upper eyelid .
the neurons that innervate the esophagus ,  stomach ,  small and large bowel
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a hypopharynx .
a lymphoid follicle that is part of a peyer's patch .
the peyer's patch area normally occupied by t lymphocytes
the segment of the rib that connects to a vertebra [ mp ]  .
a bone which corresponds to the inner plate of the pterygoid process of the human skull ,  but which ,  in all vertebrates below mammals ,  is not connected with the posterior nares ,  but serves to connect the palatine bones with the point of suspension of the lower jaw
an organ cavity that is part of a urethra .
the subserous connective tissue of the pelvic floor of the supracervical portion of the uterus .
an unstimulated network of follicular dendritic cells and small resting b cells in the lymph node cortex .
lymphatic vessel that enters the lymph node .
lymphatic vessel that exits the lymph node .
the border region surrounding the spleen b cell follicles and the periarteriolar lymphoid sheath that separates it from the marginal zone that mediates lymphocyte entry into the white pulp from the blood
one of the branches of the splenic artery [ mp ] 
one of the veins that feed the splenic vein
a blood vessel surrounded by the periarteriolar lymphoid sheath that connects the trabecular artery to the trabecular vein
any layer of the epidermis that is superior to the stratum basale
the part of the future brain that is derived from the mantle layer of the neural tube
a cell layer below the ependyma in the lateral ventricles of the brain .
column of motor neurons which innervate muscles in the limb ;  motor neurons in the lateral motor column are further organized into pools ,  each of which innervates a specific muscle in the limb
nerve fibers that utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter to the intestinal system
the angular artery is the terminal part of the facial artery ;  it ascends to the medial angle of the eye's orbit ,  imbedded in the fibers of the angular head of the quadratus labii superioris ,  and accompanied by the angular vein .
the integrated unit  ( of the eye )  that consists of the conjunctiva ,  the corneal surface ,  and the ocular mucosal adnexa including the lid margins and the meibomian gland openings ,  the lacrimal glands and the lacrimal drainage system ,  all which are critical to maintain ocular surface integrity and provide protection from external antigens and pathogenic microorganisms .
encapsulated adipose tissue found in the groin
encapsulated adipose tissue found on the dorsal side of the peritoneum
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the epididymis
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the extension of the subserous coat of the uterus laterally between the layers of the broad ligament
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the fold of peritoneal tissue that extends from the stomach to the posterior abdominal wall after associating with the transverse colon
one of the discrete functional units of the somatosensory cortex that processes tactile information derived from the vibrissae .
a part of the lymph node cortex in which b lymphocytes home to primary follicles to survey follicular dendritic cells  ( fdcs )  ;  antigen stimulated b cells proliferate and differentiate within the follicles forming distinctive germinal centers
the paracortex and interfollicular cortex of the lymph node in which t lymphocytes home to survey dendritic cells
an orifice that is part of a lower urinary tract .
one of the tubular invaginations of the epidermis enclosing the hair roots and from which grow the vibrissae located on the muzzle and face of many species
a part of the secondary follicle in which naive b cells reside along with some helper t cells ,  macrophages and follicular dendritic cells ;  these are displaced by the expanding germinal centre and form a 'mantle' around it
the area of the  ( spleen )  secondary b follicle that surrounds the germinal center and harbors the small recirculating b lymphocytes
a lymphoid follicle containing naive b cells
a primary nodular lymphoid tissue that is part of a tonsil .
a naris that is located inside the nasal cavity and connects to the pharynx .
opening / conduit between the nasal cavity and the oropharynx via the roof of the mouth .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
a bone that is shaped as a broad flat plate and composed of two thin layers of compact tissue enclosing between them a variable quantity of cancellous tissue ,  which is the location of red bone marrow .
one of: zygomaticus major ,  zygomaticus minor
a narrow ,  elongated muscle of the rotator cuff
a simple columnar epithelium that looks stratified but is not ,  because its cells are arranged with their nuclei at different levels .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
the outermost of the two layers of the cranial dura mater which normally always adheres to the periosteum of the bones of the cranial vault
the inner layer of the dura mater surrounding the brain .
the intracranial dura mater ,  consisting of two layers: the outer periosteal layer which normally always adheres to the periosteum of the bones of the cranial vault ;  and the inner meningeal layer which in most places is fused with the outer .
a strand of hair that is part of a coat of hair .
a truncal hair that has a single constriction and bend about midway along the hair shaft ,  and contains two or more air cells in the medulla
a truncal hairs that is straight ,  but shorter than a guard hair ,  and contain two or more air cells in the medulla
a long ,  straight truncal hair that contains two air cells in the medulla [ mp ]  .
a truncal hair that has two or more sharp bends with diameter constrictions at the bends ,  and contain one air cell in the medulla .
a strand of hair from the fine underhair of the coat
a layer of transparent ,  immovable disc - shaped skin or scale covering the eyes of some animals for protection ,  especially in animals without eyelids .
a male anatomical structure found some groups of animals ,  used in mating .
a mace - like spiny - headed rod found on the mid - dorsal surface of heads of male holocephali .
the rod - like extension of the medial portion of the pelvic fin in male elasmobranchii and holocephali .
an electric organ that is part of a tail .
an electric organ that is part of a head .
an organ that is capable of detecting electrical stimulus
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
a vessel of the microcirculature ,  lying between the arterioles and venules ;  includes capillaries  ( blood and lymphatic )  ,  metarterioles and arteriovenous anastomoses .
a muscle located in the lower limb that arises from the lower third of the anterior surface of the fibula ;  from the lower part of the interosseous membrane ;  and from an intermuscular septum between it and the peroneus brevis and inserted into the dorsal surface of the base of the metatarsal bone of the 5th digit .
the peroneus brevis muscle  ( or fibularis brevis )  lies under cover of the peroneus longus ,  and is a shorter and smaller muscle .
an organ cavity that surrounded_by a bone .
an epithelial tube that is fated to become a nephron .
the metanephric cortex is the outer region of the metanephros [ go ]  .
anatomical cluster which give rise to mature mesonephric nephrons .
a primitive nephron that is part of a metanephros .
cluster of cells comprising a portion of tissue which gives rise to new mesonephric nephrons .
an appendage segment that is part of a limb / fin .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsal bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsal bone .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the autopodium  -  i .e .
the metacarpus is the intermediate part of the manus skeleton that is located between the phalanges  ( bones of the fingers )  distally and the carpus which forms the connection to the forearm .
limb segment that consists of the long bones of the pes .
subdivision of skeleton that corresponds to metapodium region ,  between acropodial skeleton and mesopdoial skeleton .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 2 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 3 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 4 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 2 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 3 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 4 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 1 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 1 .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 2 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 3 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 4 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 2 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 3 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 4 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 2 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 3 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 4 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 2 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 3 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 4 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 2 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 3 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 4 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 2 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 3 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 4 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit mesenchyme .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the manual autopodium  -  i .e .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 1 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 1 .
mesenchyme of the carpal region that contributes to the tarsal skeleton .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the pedal autopodium  -  i .e .
mesenchyme of the digit region .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an forelimb zeugopod region .
a liver parenchyma that is part of a quadrate lobe of liver .
a liver parenchyma that is part of a caudate lobe of liver .
an organism subdivision that includes both an appendage and its associated girdle region .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pectoral appendicular skeleton and the pectoral girdle .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pelvic appendicular skeleton and the pelvic girdle .
paired fin skeleton that consists of the supporting endochondral proximal and distal radials and the dermal fins rays or lepidotrichia .
paired fin skeleton located in the abdominal position that consists of supporting endochondral radialsb and dermal fin rays or lepidotrichia .
skeletal subdivision that is a segment of the limb skeleton .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a single paired fin .
a iliac endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a pubic endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the subdivision of the skeleton of either the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb zeugopod region .
there are three cuneiform bones in the human foot: the medial cuneiform the intermediate cuneiform also known as the middle the lateral cuneiform .
a bone which does not occur frequently in the body but is still present in a significantly large number of organisms
an accessory bone located proximal to the base of the fifth metatarsal .
an accessory bone tubercle which if present lies posterior to the talus
an accessory bone of the pes that occasionally develops abnormally in front of the ankle towards the inside of the pes .
a piece of bone that is located within a suture in the cranium .
a orbitosphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a alisphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a alisphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
endochondral tarsal bone articulating with centralia and metatarsal 4 .
endochondral tarsal bone articulating with centralia and metatarsal 5 .
endochondral carpal bone similar to distal carpal 4 ,  but lost in most reptiles and mammals .
a bone that is part of an appendage girdle complex  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a pectoral complex .
a bone that is part of a pelvic complex .
the collection of all meningeal layers that line a central nervous system .
a sacral vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a sacral vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the extension of the ilium above the level of the acetabulum .
the body of ilium enters into the formation of the acetabulum ,  of which it forms rather less than two - fifths .
a lymphoid follicle that is part of a lymph node .
the middle pharyngeal constrictor is a fanshaped muscle ,  smaller than the inferior pharyngeal constrictor muscle .
a bone separating the lacrimal and frontal bones in many tetrapod skulls
a exoccipital endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a secondary follicle that is located in a lymph node
a collection of activated b cells at the center of a secondary follicle ,  formed after b cells become activated and migrate to the center .
the part of the secondary follicle that surrounds the germinal center .
the enmeshed group of antigen presenting cells with extensive dendritic processes in the spleen b cell follicle that present antigen to b cells during an immune response
the eighth rib counting from the top of the rib cage down .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along an axis perpedicular to the main body anterior - posterior axis .
lies on the palmar aspect of the coffin joint between the second phalanx and third phalanx .
the supraglenoid tubercle is a region of the scapula to which the long head of the biceps brachii muscle attaches .
a calcaneum endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a calcaneum endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a clavicle .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a clavicle .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a radius bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a ulna .
a radius - ulna endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a tibia .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a tibia .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a fibula .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a fibula .
a smooth ,  rounded eminence on the lateral portion of the articular surface of the humerus .
a skin of neck that is part of a throat .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb wing .
a membranous extension of skin that forms the wing material in animals such as bats .
in bats and pterosaurs ,  thin web of skin that extends from the shoulder to the wrist anterior to the upper arm and forearm ,  and is fixed on the neck or skull .
an interdigital region that is part of a patagium .
a dactylopatagium that is connected_to a manual digit 1 and connected_to a manual digit 2 .
a dactylopatagium that is connected_to a manual digit 2 and connected_to a manual digit 3 .
a dactylopatagium that is connected_to a manual digit 3 and connected_to a manual digit 4 .
a dactylopatagium that is connected_to a manual digit 4 and connected_to a manual digit 5 .
a flight membrane running between the body and the limb or digits .
the membrane that is stretches between the legs of bats ,  used for flight ,  and in the case of insect - eating bats ,  for catching prey .
a spur of cartilage arising from inner side of ankle and running along part of outer interfemoral membrane in bats
a calcareous tooth that is elongated and protrudes from the mouth .
a transverse fold of skin across the throat  ( peters 1964 )  .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of cartilage tissue .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of pre - cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
a small pointed eminence of the external ear ,  situated in front of the concha ,  and projecting backward over the meatus .
a hair - like unicellular external process of the body wall or any derivative of the latter ;  a hair ;  a bristle .
either of two lateral parts of the ethmoid bone that form part of the anterior wall of the orbit
muscles of the pelvic girdle ,  hindlimb or pelvic fin .
a muscle of a pectoral girdle ,  pectoral fin or anterior limb .
an endochondral element of the nasal capsule that forms septum between nasal capsules and usually remains unossified in mammals
am unpaired external naris that lies in the midline of the head .
hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of one sex ,  and then later of the other sex .
dermal element that arises via intramembranous ossification and are developmentally distinct from true ribs that articulate with the vertebral column .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsometatarsus .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsometatarsus .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a tibiotarsus .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a tibiotarsus .
a primordium that develops into a clavicle bone .
third bone of the lower leg ,  normally restricted to the area of the knee ,  in multuberculates ,  monotremes and some therians
an arrowhead - shaped bone in the avian hyoid apparatus which forms the base of the tongue
posterior ossification of the otic capsule .
skeletal element that is often isolated ,  small ,  and variable in composition .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the middle thicker part of the thyrohyoid membrane is termed the median thyrohyoid ligament  ( middle hyothyroid ligament ,  middle thyrohyoid ligament )  ,  its lateral thinner portions are pierced by the superior laryngeal vessels and the internal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve .
the lateral thyrohyoid ligament  ( lateral hyothyroid ligament )  is a round elastic cord ,  which forms the posterior border of the hyothyroid membrane and passes between the tip of the superior cornu of the thyroid cartilage and the extremity of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone .
fibers of the thyroarytenoid muscle that continue to the margin of the epiglottis ;  it closes the inlet to the larynx .
the cricopharyngeus is a pharyngeal arch 4 / 6 muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors and is innervated by the pharyngeal plexus and the recurrent laryngeal n .  ( from vagus ,  cn x )  ,  and is an integral part of the pharyngeal tube ,  and attaches to the cricoid cartilage and the midline raphe .
is a mandibular muscle that develops into the ventral intermandibularis anterior and posterior muscles .
cricoarytenoid muscles are muscles that connect the cricoid cartilage and arytenoid cartilage .
the orbicularis oris is a superficial facial muscle with fibers that encircle the opening of the oral cavity that attaches to the maxilla ,  mandible ,  skin and modiolus ,  and that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors ,  and is innervated by the facial nerve  ( cn vii )  .
the salpingopharyngeus muscle arises from the inferior part of the cartilage of the pharyngotympanic tube  ( eustachian tube )  in the nasal cavity ;  it passes downward and blends with the posterior fasciculus of the palatopharyngeus muscle .
either of the two muscles that comprise the digastric group  ( anterior or posterior )  .
the anterior digastric is a pharyngeal arch i muscle that participates in oral / pharygeal behaviors and is innervated by the nerve to mylohyoid  ( a branch of the third division of the trigeminal nerve )  ,  is attached to the mandible and to the hyoid apparatus ,  and it is superficial to mylohyoid muscle .
the posterior digastric is a pharyngeal arch ii muscle that participates in oral pharyngeal behavior ,  is innervated by the digastric branch of facial nerve and attaches to the posterior cranial base and the hyoid apparatus .
runs from the processus jugularis to the os stylohyoideum ;  innervated with the ramus jugulohyoideus from the nervus facialis
the occipitofrontalis or epicranius is a muscle which covers parts of the skull .
a belly of the occipitofrontalis muscle that is near the occipital bone
a muscle organ that attaches_to a clavicle and attaches_to a occipital bone .
a muscle organ that has_muscle_insertion a occipital bone and has_muscle_origin a sternum .
an occasional small muscle extending from the root of the styloid process to the cartilage of the meatus of the ear
a muscle that attaches to the base of the ear and to the middle of the skull
a belly of the occipitofrontalis muscle that is near the frontal bone
the nasalis  ( compressor naris )  is a sphincter - like muscle of the nose whose function is to compress the nasal cartilage .
the ceratohyoideus is a muscle of pharyngeal arch iii that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors and is innervated by the glossopharyngeal n .  ,  and attaches to the ceratohyal part of the hyoid apparatus and also to a non - ceratohyal part of the hyoid apparatus .
a single muscle ,  filling up the posterior concave surfaces of the arytenoid cartilages .
any muscle organ that is part of either the head or the neck .
a pre - muscle condensation that will develop into a transverospinalis muscle .
the transversospinal muscles are a group of muscles of the human back .
a a triangular eminence projecting forward from the proximal epiphysis of the ulna [ wp , modified ]  .
a thin layer of cartilage ,  usually hyaline ,  on the articular surface of bones in synovial joints .
cartilage of the lower jaw that give rise to a portion of the anguloarticular compound bone .
a cartilage element that is part of a splanchnocranium .
an endocardium that is part of a atrium auricular region .
an endocardium that is part of a left atrium auricular region .
an endocardium that is part of a right atrium auricular region .
brachioradialis is a muscle of the forearm that acts to flex the forearm at the elbow .
the flexor pollicis brevis is a muscle in the hand that flexes the thumb .
the spinalis is the portion of the erector spinae ,  a bundle of muscles and tendons ,  located nearest to the spine .
origin: spines of upper thoracic and lower cervical vertebrae ;  insertion: occipital bone ;  innervation: spinal nerves ;  action ,  extends head .
the pyramidalis is a small and triangular muscle ,  anterior to the rectus abdominis ,  and contained in the rectus sheath .
a transversospinalis muscle of the human body .
a muscle that originates from the cuboid bone and divides into two portions ,  which are inserted into the medial and lateral sides of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe ,  a sesamoid bone being present in each tendon at its insertion .
the extrinsic extensor muscles of the hand are located in the back of the forearm and have long tendons connecting them to bones in the hand ,  where they exert their action .
the aryepiglotticus is a muscle of the larynx running in the aryepiglottic fold from the arytenoid cartilage to the epiglottis .
one of: obturator externus or obturator internus
the obturator internus muscle originates on the medial surface of the obturator membrane ,  the ischium near the membrane ,  and the rim of the pubis .
the peritoneum over the rectum and the bladder is continued over the intestinal surface and fundus of the uterus on to its vesical surface ,  which it covers as far as the junction of the body and cervix uteri ,  and then to the bladder ,  forming here a second ,  but shallower ,  pouch ,  the vesicouterine excavation  ( or uterovesical pouch )  .
the eighth thoracic vertebra counting from the top down .
a channel containing perilymph passing through the temporal bone ,  connecting the scala tympani of the cochlea to the subarachnoid space .
endolymph - filled space contained by the membranous labyrinth .
dermal bone that is located posterior to the dentary and lateral to the articular and retroarticular bones of the lower jaw .
the dorsal portion of the first pharyngeal arch ,  comprising the upper jaw [ zfin , vhog ]  .
a ligament that is part of a knee joint .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a right pelvic girdle region .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a left pelvic girdle region .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
the cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the pre - cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the lacrimal nerve is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 5 .
a cruciate ligament in the neck forming part of the atlanto - axial joint .
a synovial joint that is part of a pelvic girdle region .
a synovial joint that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the humeroulnar joint ,  is part of the elbow - joint or the olecron joint ,  between the ulna and humerus bones is the simple hinge - joint ,  which allows for movements of flexion ,  extension and circumduction .
a hinge joint between the head of the radius and the capitulum of the humerus .
a joint that connects the tibia and the fibula .
the inferior tibiofibular articulation  ( tibiofibular syndesmosis )  is formed by the rough ,  convex surface of the medial side of the lower end of the fibula ,  and a rough concave surface on the lateral side of the tibia .
the superior tibiofibular articulation is an arthrodial joint between the lateral condyle of the tibia and the head of the fibula .
the tarsometatarsal articulations are arthrodial joints in the pes .
the carpometacarpal joints  ( cmc )  are joints in the wrist that articulates the distal row of carpal bones and the proximal bases of the metacarpal bones .
a skeletal joint that connects a laryngeal cartilage .
the cricoarytenoid articulation  ( or joint )  is a joint connecting the cricoid cartilage and the thyroid cartilage .
the cricoarytenoid articulation  ( or joint )  is a joint connecting the cricoid cartilage and the arytenoid cartilage .
a complex joint in the hind limbs of quadruped mammals such as the sheep ,  horse or dog .
the xiphisternal joint  ( or xiphisternal synchondrosis )  is a location near the bottom of the sternum ,  where the body of the sternum and the xiphoid process .
a skeletal joint that connects two adjacent metacarpals [ fma , modified ]  .
a skeletal joint that connects two carpal bones .
a joint that connects two adjacent metatarsals
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
a cartilage element that lies between two successive vertebral centra .
ligament that joins successive centra .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
any synovial joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
ossicle that is part of the appendicular skeleton .
ossicle that is part of the axial skeleton .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the kidney and the ureters .
a muscle capable of adduction .
any of the glands in silk - spinning insects and spiders that secrete a protein liquid that hardens into silk on exposure to air .
a gland found in the larvae of lepidoptera .
gland of the lamina epithelialis mucosae which perforate the lamina muscularis ,  with their adenomeres located in the submucosal connective tissue .
a paired hollow organ in the genito - urinary apparatus of raja  ( and probably other skates and rays )  whose cavity is fluid filled .
a gill that develops_from a pharyngeal gill precursor .
a muscle whose action is to depress the lower jaw .
surface structure that extends from the chin covering pharynx and larynx .
the subarachnoid space associated with the lateral cerebral sulcus  ( sylvian fissure )  ;  contains the m1 segment of the middle cerebral artery and the origin of lenticulostriate arteries ,  and proximal parts of the middle cerebral artery
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the cuneiform cartilages of the larynx are two small ,  elongated pieces of yellow elastic cartilage ,  placed one on either side ,  in the aryepiglottic fold ,  where they give rise to small whitish elevations on the surface of the mucous membrane ,  just in front of the arytenoid cartilages .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a suture joining a nasal bone to another bone .
the cartilaginous junction between the basisphenoid and basioccipital bones of the mammalian skull
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a supraoccipital bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a supraoccipital bone .
a bone that is part of a neurocranium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
longitudinal fibers of the esophagus that attaches to the posterior aspect of the cricoid cartilage of the larynx
paired ,  intramembranous bones located within the nasal capsules and embedded in the nasal cartilages ;  it is pierced by the ductus nasolacrimalis .
a bone behind and above the orbit of which it commonly forms part of the border that is present in many vertebrates and corresponds to the postorbital process of the frontal bone of various birds and mammals
the postorbital is one of the bones in vertebrate skulls which forms a portion of the dermal skull roof and ,  sometimes ,  a ring about the orbit .
a skeletal joint that connects quadrate and articular bones .
synovial joint that articulates bones of upper and lower jaw .
the term retrorubral area of the midbrain reticular nucleus refers to a region of the rat brain caudal and dorsal to the ventral tegmental area .
one of two divisions of the nuclei of stria terminalis based on topology ,  connectivity and multiple stains in the rat  (  swanson - 2004  )  and the mouse  (  dong - 2004  )  .
one of two divisions of the nuclei of stria terminalis based on topology ,  connectivity and multiple stains in the rat  (  swanson - 2004  )  and the mouse  (  dong - 2004  )  .
corpus spongiosum  ( also known as corpus cavernosum urethrae in older texts )  is the mass of spongy tissue surrounding the male urethra within the penis .
an epithelium that is part of a crypt of lieberkuhn .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the gastrointestinal system
small ,  mucous accessory lacrimal glands that are found underneath the eyelid where the upper and lower conjuctivae meet .
the greater tubercle of the humerus is situated lateral to the head of the humerus and posteriolateral to the lesser tubercle .
the lesser tubercle of the humerus ,  although smaller ,  is more prominent than the greater tubercle: it is situated in front ,  and is directed medially and anteriorly .
a lamina propria that is part of a large intestine .
a crescent - shaped whitish area of the bed of a fingernail or toenail .
ophthalmic veins are veins which drain the eye .
the superior ophthalmic vein begins at the inner angle of the orbit in a vein named the nasofrontal which communicates anteriorly with the angular vein ;  it pursues the same course as the ophthalmic artery ,  and receives tributaries corresponding to the branches of that vessel .
the inferior ophthalmic vein begins in a venous net - work at the forepart of the floor and medial wall of the orbit ;  it receives some vorticose veins and other veins from the rectus inferior ,  obliquus inferior ,  lacrimal sac and eyelids ,  runs backward in the lower part of the orbit and divides into two branches .
an autonomic plexus ,  entering the orbit in company with the ophthalmic artery ,  derived from the internal carotid plexus .
an epithelium that is part of a inferior parathyroid gland .
an epithelium that is part of a superior parathyroid gland .
an epithelium that is part of a parathyroid gland .
a muscle layer that is part of a large intestine .
a small indentation located in the prostatic urethra ,  at the apex of the urethral crest ,  on the seminal colliculus  ( verumontanum )  ,  laterally flanked by openings of the ejaculatory ducts .
the sacrococcygeal symphysis  ( sacrococcygeal articulation ,  articulation of the sacrum and coccyx )  is an amphiarthrodial joint ,  formed between the oval surface at the apex of the sacrum ,  and the base of the coccyx .
a muscle layer that is part of a small intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a urachus .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing urachus .
between the rectum and the bladder the peritoneal cavity forms ,  in the male ,  a pouch ,  the rectovesical excavation  ( or rectovesical pouch )  ,  the bottom of which is slightly below the level of the upper ends of the vesiculae seminalesbi .
the carpometacarpus is the fusion of the carpal and metacarpal bone ,  essentially a single fused bone between the wrist and the knuckles .
a joint that allows motion around an axis .
the iliocostalis lumborum  ( iliocostalis muscle ;  sacrolumbalis muscle )  is inserted ,  by six or seven flattened tendons ,  into the inferior borders of the angles of the lower six or seven ribs .
a root of cranial nerve that is part of a vagus nerve .
a neural nucleus that is part of a midbrain tectum .
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
origin: spinous processes of seventh cervical and sometimes two upper thoracic vertebrae ;  insertion: spinous processes of axis and sometimes of second to fourth cervical vertebrae ;  innervation: branches of cervical ;  action: extends vertebral column .
lumbar muscle that extends and rotates the vertebral column .
the mastoid process is a conical prominence projecting from the undersurface of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone .
the ora serrata is the serrated junction between the retina and the ciliary body .
synovial sac which surrounds parts of one or more tendons .
deep fascia  ( or 'investing fascia' )  is a layer of fascia which can surround individual muscles ,  and divide groups of muscles into compartments .
fascia that suspends a visceral organ .
an ossified mesethmoid element
the most anterior region of the braincase .
region between capsules formed by anterior tips of neurocranial trabeculae .
the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone  ( vertical plate )  is a thin ,  flattened lamina ,  polygonal in form ,  which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate ,  and assists in forming the septum of the nose ;  it is generally deflected a little to one or other side .
a canal through the maxilla that is connects the infra - orbital groove and foramen and is the conduit for the passage of the infraorbital nerve and artery .
endochondral element of pectoral girdle ,  positioned posterior to the clavicle and anterior to the coracoid .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the appendicular skeleton plus associated joints .
a bone that is part of a autopod region .
a skeletal muscle in the posterior triangle of the neck .
scent glands are exocrine glands found in most mammals .
a sensory organ in which the epidermis is modified to form bulbous papillae .
moist ,  hairless ,  crenelated area around nostrils of some mammals
a gland arranged along a row on the underside of the hindlimb in some lizards [ kardong ] 
femoral pores are a part of a holocrine secretory gland found on the inside of the thighs of certain lizards and amphisbaenians which releases pheromones to attract mates or mark territory .
a carpometacarpal joint that connects to metacarpal 1 .
the quadratojugal is a small jaw bone that is present in most amphibians ,  reptiles ,  and birds ,  but has been lost in mammals .
a secondary tongue located below the primary tongue in prosimian primates and some primitive mammals .
the part of the trunk that is in the dorsum [ cjm ]  .
subdivision of vertebral column that is posterior to the sacral region and anterior to the caudal region .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 1 .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 2 .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 3 .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 4 .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 5 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 1 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 2 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 3 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 4 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 5 .
a remnant of the mesonephric duct that can be found next to the ovary and fallopian tube .
a putative electroreceptor organ located in the medial rostral cavity in the ethmoid portion of the chondrocranium of coelacanths .
a flexible ,  unpaired ,  hollow tube found in hemichordates that arises in embryonic development as an outpocketing from the roof of the embryonic gut anterior to the pharynx .
the pharyngeal aponeurosis  ( or pharyngobasilar fascia ,  or fibrous coat )  ,  is situated between the mucous and muscular layers .
the submucous layer of the wall of the uterine tube .
a partion of white matter that is part of a telencephalon .
a portion of gray matter that is part of a telencephalon .
outer covering of an animal typically consisting primarily of cellulose  ( tunicin )  in addition to varying amounts of water ,  protein and carbohydrates .
basalmost subdivision of a tunicate containing the heart and reproductive organs
the superficial temporalis muscle is a separable part of the temporalis muscle that attaches to the temporalis fascia
the deep temporalis muscle is a separable part of the temporalis muscle that that attaches to the bony wall of the braincase and is deep to the superficial temporalis .
the suprazygomatic part of the temporalis muscle is a separable part of the deep temporalis that attaches to the superior surface of the temporal root of the zygomatic arch .
the pars reflexa is a separable part of the superficial masseter muscle that attaches to the medial surface of the mandible .
the zone of the mandible that carries the teeth .
 .the fossa for the masseter .
an elastic band connecting the anterior surface of the epiglottis to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone .
the digastric branch of facial nerve arises close to the stylomastoid foramen ,  and divides into several filaments ,  which supply the posterior belly of the digastricus ;  one of these filaments joins the glossopharyngeal nerve .
the stylohyoid branch of facial nerve frequently arises in conjunction with the digastric branch ;  it is long and slender ,  and enters the stylohyoideus about its middle .
the stylopharyngeal branch of glossopharyngeal nerve is distributed to the stylopharyngeus .
the articular capsule  ( capsular ligament )  is a thin ,  loose envelope ,  attached above to the circumference of the mandibular fossa and the articular tubercle immediately in front ;  below ,  to the neck of the condyle of the mandible .
the fibrocartilaginous plate that separates the joint into upper and lower cavities .
a muscular branch of the mandibular nerve passing to the medial surface of the masseter muscle ,  which it innervates .
a nerve that innervates the mylohyoid muscle and the anterior belly of the digastric muscle .
the pharyngeal plexus is a network of nerve fibers innervating most of the palate ,  larynx ,  and pharynx .
the superior laryngeal nerve is a branch of the vagus nerve .
the deep temporal nerves ,  branches of the mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve ,  are two in number ,  anterior and posterior .
a anatomical surface that is part of a mandible .
the pharyngeal raphe is a raphe that serves as the origin and insertion for several of the pharyngeal constrictors .
a raphe running across the palate ,  from the palatine uvula to the incisive papilla .
a palatine raphe that is part of a hard palate .
a palatine raphe that is part of a soft palate .
the pterygomandibular raphe  ( pterygomandibular ligament )  is a tendinous band of the buccopharyngeal fascia ,  attached by one extremity to the hamulus of the medial pterygoid plate ,  and by the other to the posterior end of the mylohyoid line of the mandible .
an acellular strand that runs from subcommissural organ caudally through the ventricular system and central canal to the ampulla caudalis .
this is a neurosecretory organ rostral to the ampulla caudalis on the ventral surface of the distal end of the spinal cord .
a ventricle - like space at the end of the central canal
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
a lymph vasculature that is part of a head .
the cleidomastoideus is a thick ,  strap - like muscle that together with the cleidocervicalis forms the proximal part of the brachiocephalicus .
this muscle makes up the distal segment of the brachiocephalicus .
the brachiocephalicus is a long and flat ,  complex of muscles that extends from the lower half of the humeral shaft to the head and neck .
the omotransversarius is a straplike muscle ,  which advances and adducts the forelimb ,  as well as flexes the neck laterally .
a transverse process of vertebra that is part of a vertebral bone 1 .
the sternocephalicus is a flat muscle and its caudal border is adjacent to the ventral border of the brachiocephalicus .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis or clitoris .
a zone of skin that is part of a prepuce of clitoris .
the iliothoracic group is made up of the abdominal wall muscles: rectus abdominis ,  external abdominal oblique ,  internal abdominal obliquus ,  and the transversus abdominis
the femorospinal group is made up of the psoas major and iliacus muscles
the external sphincter muscle of urethra  ( or sphincter urethrae membranaceae )  surrounds the whole length of the membranous portion of the urethra ,  and is enclosed in the fasciæ of the urogenital diaphragm .
the external sphincter muscle of female urethra is a muscle which controls urination .
a blood vessel running parallel to the inferior pancreatico - duodenal artery that drains blood from the pancreas and duodenum into the splenic vein .
is one of the numerus muscles of the external ear and is of importance since it is encountered in the operation for drainage of infections of the external ear of the dog .
a chiasma of facial muscles held together by fibrous tissue ,  located lateral and slightly superior to each angle of the mouth .
a bulbospongiosus muscle that is part of a male reproductive system .
the bulbospongiosus is the thick extrapelvic continuation of the urethralis .
the pudendal nerve is a somatic nerve in the pelvic region that innervates the external genitalia of both sexes ,  as well as sphincters for the bladder and the rectum .
a nerve arising from the pudendal nerve that supplies the perineum .
a layer of elastic tissue that forms the outermost part of the tunica intima of blood vessels .
lying just below the skin ,  cutaneus trunci is one of very few cutaneus muscles .
is a principal muscle of the lips which arises over the dorsum of the nose .
a muscle that runs beneath the longissimus capitis and inserts on the wing of the atlas
the ventral lateral sacrocaudal is a long strong muscle consisting of numerous individual parts .
rectus thoracis is a very small quadrilateral muscle sheet from the lateral thorax runs from the 3rd - 1st rib that is in continuation with rectus abdominis .
the sphincter colli superficialis is composed of transverse muscle fibers ,  and covers the entire area between the lower jaw and chest .
the sphincter colli profundus lies below the platysma in the area of the parotid gland  ( gland regions )  .
an evagination of the cloaca .
the iliococcygeus arises from the ischial spine and from the posterior part of the tendinous arch of the obturator fascia ,  and is attached to the coccyx and anococcygeal raphc )  ;  it is usually thin ,  and may fail entirely ,  or be largely replaced by fibrous tissue .
the fibers which form a sling for the rectum are named the puborectalis or sphincter recti .
the pubococcygeus muscle or pc muscle is a hammock - like muscle ,  found in both sexes ,  that stretches from the pubic bone to the coccyx  ( tail bone )  forming the floor of the pelvic cavity and supporting the pelvic organs .
a pubococcygeus muscle that is part of a male organism .
pubovaginalis in the female is the equivalent of levator prostatae in the male .
originates on the distal radioulna and inserts on the palmar prepollex .
the chondroglossus is sometimes described as a part of the hyoglossus ,  but is separated from it by fibers of the genioglossus ,  which pass to the side of the pharynx .
originates from the distal carpal 5 - 4 - 3 and inserts on the palmar prepollex .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a esophagus .
a tube lumen that is part of a mesonephric duct .
the styloid process of the ulna projects from the medial and back part of the bone ;  it descends a little lower than the head ,  and its rounded end affords attachment to the ulnar collateral ligament of the wrist [ wp , unvetted ]  .
the superior half of the orbital rim ,  which constitutes the curved superior border of the orbital opening ,  formed by the frontal bone .
a portion of tissue that is the most anterior portion of the notochord .
a gland that secretes venom .
a kidney - shaped alveolar glands located in the upper thigh connected by a thin - walled duct to a calcaneus spur ,  or calcar ,  on each hind limb .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb or fin .
proximal element of a free limb skeleton consisting of the femur and humerus in the forelimb stylopodium and hindlimb stylopodium respectively [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
section of the forelimb skeleton located between the stylopodium and the autopodium .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
odontogenic tissue that is collagen - rich and characteristic of vertebrate teeth and tooth - like structures  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  deposited by preodontoblasts and odontoblasts that are typically excluded from the matrix .
odontogenic tissue that is avascular non - mineralized matrix that is deposited by preameloblast and ameloblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
cartilage tissue that is not mineralized .
a commissure that is part of a diencephalon .
an axon tract that is part of a diencephalon .
a tooth that is attached to a maxilla [ tao , modified ]  .
tooth that is attached to a dentary / mandible [ tao , modified ]  .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
any bone that is part of the upper jaw skeleton .
the long ventral process of the incus bone which articulates with the stapes
a gingiva that is part of a upper jaw region .
a gingiva that is part of a lower jaw region .
tooth that is attached to a coronoid bone .
an extension of the sternum  ( breastbone )  which runs axially along the midline of the sternum and extends outward ,  perpendicular to the plane of the ribs [ wp ]  .
a muscle in the bird's thorax region that originates from carina of the sternum ,  furcula ,  and sternal ribs and inserts onto proximal dorsal surface of the humerus .
replacement bone that is bilaterally paired and  ( in teleosts )  articulates with the neurocranium dorsally and the opercle posteriorly [ tao , modified ]  .
cartilage form of the hyomandibular element .
the upper paired deep bone or cartilage of the hyoid region ,  sometimes taking part in jaw suspension and which supports the opercle .
the hypohyal is a ventral element of the hyoid arch which links the ceratohyal and the basihyal .
skeletal element that is median and is the anterior - most element of the ventral hyoid arch .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is median and is the anterior - most cartilage of the ventral hyoid arch .
replacement bone that is median and is the anterior - most bone of the ventral hyoid arch .
this is the paired bone that makes up the segment of the mammalian hyoid apparatus connecting the epihyoids with the skull via the tympanohyoid cartilages on each side .
a projection on the basihyal bone .
this small finger of cartilage completes the connection between the thyrohyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage  ( rostral cornu ) 
is a laterally bowed ,  sagittally compressed ,  slender element that extends from dorsocaudally from the lateral parts of the basihyoid .
the superior horn of thyroid cartilage is long and narrow ,  directed upward ,  backward ,  and medialward ,  and ends in a conical extremity ,  which gives attachment to the lateral hyothyroid ligament .
the inferior horn of thyroid cartilage is short and thick ;  it is directed downward ,  with a slight inclination forward and medialward ,  and presents ,  on the medial side of its tip ,  a small oval articular facet for articulation with the side of the cricoid cartilage .
the terminal segment in the chain of skeletal elements of the hyoid apparatus .
a zone of the frontal bone that consists of two thin triangular plates ,  the orbital plates ,  which form the vaults of the orbits ,  and are separated from one another by a median gap ,  the ethmoidal notch .
a palatal bone which  -  -  like many palatal bones  -  -  may originally have developed as a dermal bone replacing part of the palatoquadrate ,  the primitive upper jaw .
the splenial is a small bone in the lower jaw of reptiles ,  amphibians and birds ,  usually located on the lingual side  ( closest to the tongue )  between the angular and suprangular .
the surangular is a dermal bone of the lower jaw .
osseous element of intramembranous origin that extends along the lingual margin of meckel's cartilage .
an anuran dermal bone that usually is paired and roofs the braincase .
a fold that lies between the mouth and pharynx and marks the posterior border of the mouth
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a molar tooth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
a single large dorsal limb rotator muscle in lower tetrapods that runs from the lumber region and girdle to the femur .
a single large ventral muscle in lower tetrapods that runs from the pubis and ischium to the femur .
limb extensor that runs from ilium to femur .
a muscle of the patagium that attaches to the clavicle and the metacarpal
hyoid muscle that originates at the ventrolateral margin of the pterotic and inserts in the dorsomesial edge of the opercle .
ventral head of a bicapitate rib .
dorsal head of a bicapitate rib .
paired processes that arise near the midpoint of the neural arch lamina ,  for the attachment of the tuberculum of two - headed ribs .
dermal bone of pectoral girdle that is median and ventral in position .
fused ventral dermal element constituting the plastron .
paired dermal bone that is part of the anterior region of the plastron .
a median bone at the anterior margin of the plastron .
a paired plastron element that is in the posterior part of the plastron ,  anterior to the xiphiplastron and posterior to the hyoplastron
a paired plastron element that is in the posterior part of the plastron ,  posterior to the hypoplastron
fused dorsal element constituting the carapace of a turtle shell .
one of a series of bones around the edge of the carapace .
one of eight pairs of plates on the carapace ,  forming two rows adjacent to the peripheral plates .
one of a series of plates on the dorsal midline of the turtle shell ,  posterior to the nuchal bone .
one of three plates on the posterior end of the carapace ,  posterior to the neural plates .
the anteriormost plate of the carapace .
a plate that lies between the posteriormost neural plate and the pygal plate .
a scute that is part of a plastron .
a scute that is part of a carapace .
enlarged section of perichordal tube that is arranged serially but out of phase with segmental musculature .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a vertebra in the trunk region .
a proximal tarsal bone that articulates with the fibula .
a tarsal bone that connected_to a hindlimb zeugopod skeleton .
an adductor muscle that acts on the jaw .
a muscle derivative of the mandibular levator that runs from the chondrocranium to the palatoquadrate cartilage .
a jaw muscle arises near the orbit and tapers as it passes posteriorly to its insertion on the adductor mandibulae .
odontoid tissue that is avascular non - mineralized matrix that is deposited by odontoblasts and ameloblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
skeletal tissue that is hypermineralized and aprismatic and deposited by a combination of ameloblasts and odontoblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
each of the two arteries arising from the hypogastric arteries of the fetus and passing throught the umbilical cord to the placenta .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
portion of midgut after it bends around the superior mesenteric artery
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a caudate lobe of liver .
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a quadrate lobe of liver .
a cardiac valve leaflet that is part of a aortic valve .
a cardiac valve leaflet that is part of a pulmonary valve .
paired structures in the embryo that represent the final stage of development of the caudal end of the external genitals before sexual differentiation .
a genital swelling that is part of a female reproductive system .
a genital swelling that is part of a male reproductive organ .
an embryonic lymph sac that forms at the junction of the future internal jugular / anterior cardinals and subclavian veins .
anatomical projection that is composed of cartilage tissue .
paired ,  cylindrical ,  and small bones of endochondral origin that lie anteromedial to the anterior end of meckel's cartilage .
anatomical structure that is part of the larva .
an anatomical space that is part of a bone of lower jaw .
an anatomical space that is part of a bone of upper jaw .
a duct connecting the the utricle to the saccule in the membranous labyrinth of the ear .
a cranial nerve nucleus that is associated with a vagus nerve .
a continuous column of gray matter along the midline in the dorsal gray commissure that sends fibers to the hypogastric nerve .
a neural nucleus that is part of the spinal cord .
a nerve that is part of a head .
a small tubular invagination of the skin with a fleshy dermal papilla at the bottom from which the feather grows .
an epidermal thickening above a condensation of dermal cells that will give rise to a feather follicle
the combination of the rachis and the calamus .
similar to erector pili muscles of mammals ;  attached to the sides of the follicle ;  capable of elevating or lowering entire groups of feathers .
a flight feather that lies along a single horizontal row on the rear margin of the anatomical tail .
a flight feather located on the posterior side of the wing
a remex feather that is connected to the manus
a remex feather that is connected to the ulna .
a remex feather that is connected to the humerus .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a feather shaft .
a tissue that is part of a cavity of feather shaft .
a suprabasal cell population which together with the feather follicle placode develops into the feather follicle .
the part of the feather bud formed by a proliferation of dermal cells
an epithelial bud that is part of a feather bud .
a tissue that is part of a dermis and is part of a feather follicle .
a tissue that is part of a epidermis and is part of a feather follicle .
an anatomical cluster that consists of feathers .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
an ectodermal placode that gives rise to any of the cutaneous appendages that protrude from the skin epidermis  ( heair ,  feathers ,  epidermal scales )  .
superficial fascia is found in the subcutis in most regions of the body ,  blending with the reticular layer of the dermis .
a tube lumen that is part of a atrioventricular canal .
an anatomical junction that divides and overlaps with and atrium and a ventricle in the heart .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
lobular organ the parenchyma of which consists of glandular acini which communicate with the vestibule of vagina .
a sebaceous glands in the areola surrounding the nipple .
a duct that is part of a minor vestibular gland .
a duct that is part of a vestibular gland .
a duct that is part of a sebaceous gland .
an acinus that is part of a sebaceous gland .
an acinus that is part of a parotid gland .
an acinus that is part of a salivary gland .
an acinus that is part of a areolar gland .
an acinus that is part of a mammary gland .
an acinus that is part of a lacrimal gland .
an acinus that is part of a exocrine gland .
the internal auditory meatus  ( also internal acoustic meatus ,  internal auditory canal ,  and internal acoustic canal )  is a canal in the petrous bone of the temporal bone of the skull that carries nerves from inside the cranium towards the middle and inner ear compartments namely cranial nerve vii and cranial nerve viii .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of aorta tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of pulmonary tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of tendon tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of corneal stroma that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
in a condyloid joint  ( condyloid articulation ,  ellipsoidal joint )  an ovoid articular surface ,  or condyle ,  is received into an elliptical cavity .
an intercarpal that connects a proximal and distal carpal bone
a cranial suture that connects a nasal bone and connects a maxilla .
a synarthrosis is a type of joint which permits very little or no movement under normal conditions .
amphiarthrosis is a type of continuous ,  slightly movable joint .
a skeletal ligament that is part of a sternoclavicular joint .
the oral part of the tongue anterior to the terminal sulcus .
the lateral border that separates the dorsum from the inferior surface of the tongue on each side ,  the two borders meeting anteriorly at the apex . .
a muscle layer that is part of a wall of esophagus .
the testes ,  at an early period of fetal life ,  are placed at the back part of the abdominal cavity ,  behind the peritoneum ,  and each is attached by a peritoneal fold ,  the mesorchium ,  to the mesonephros .
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
fluid of the ganglia and peripheral nerves that lie outside the brain and spinal cord
a organ cavity that is part of a vagina .
a layer of connective tissue that ensheaths a muscle fiber and is composed mostly from reticular fibers .
reticular tissue which surrounds a smooth muscle cell .
reticular tissue which surrounds a cardiac myocyte .
reticular tissue which surrounds a skeletal muscle cell .
epimysium is a layer of connective tissue which ensheaths the entire muscle .
the fibrous sheath enveloping each of the primary bundles of skeletal muscle fibers .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a gizzard .
a rock held inside a gastrointestinal tract .
plantaris is a vestigial structure and one of the superficial muscles of the posterior crural compartment of the leg .
an intertwined cluster of nerve fibers surrounded by glia where mossy fibers from the pontine nuclei in the white matter synapse with granule cell axons ,  golgi cell axons and unipolar brush interneuron axons
synaptic structure found in thalamic relay nuclei consising of a complex of afferent terminals ,  relay cell dendrites ,  interneuron dendrites and other processes .
the thickened peripheral margin of the vitreous membrane of the cornea .
masses of developing blood cells attached to endothelium in the yolk sac
the the continuous basement membrane found within the membranous labyrinth of the cochlea ,  known to extend from the limbus ,  down to the inner sulcus ,  across the basilar membrane ,  up to the external sulcus to the spiral prominence and radiating into the spiral ligament ensheathing the root cell processes
nerve fibers which project from cell bodies of autonomic ganglia to synapses on target organs .
nerve fibers which project from the central nervous system to autonomic ganglia .
a noradrenergic or adrenergic axonal fiber projecting from a sympathetic ganglion to an effector organ
a cholinergic axonal fiber projecting from the cns to a sympathetic ganglion
a cholinergic axonal fiber projecting from a parasympathetic ganglion to an effector organ
a cholinergic axonal fibers projecting from the cns to a parasympathetic ganglion
hair in the nose
an epidermal invagination that has as parts a hair follicle ,  a sebaceous gland ,  and arrector pili muscle
a pilosebaceuous unit that contains a strand of virbissa hair  ( a specialized tactile hair )  with the follicle incorporating a blood sinus ,  heavily innervated by sensory nerves .
a bulb of hair follicle that is part of a vibrissa unit .
a hair root sheath that is part of a vibrissa unit .
a hair inner root sheath that is part of a vibrissa unit .
a hair outer root sheath that is part of a vibrissa unit .
an arrector muscle of hair that is part of a vibrissa hair .
an angle of the scapula that is broad and bears the glenoid cavity or fossa [ wp , unvetted ]  .
a luminal layer of epithelium that is part of a ureter .
a luminal layer of epithelium that is part of a endometrium epithelium .
the inner cell layer of the mammary epithelium bilayer that lines the luminal surface of mammary gland ducts and alveoli ;  luminal cells have only limited contact with the underlying basement membrane and surrounding connective tissue ;  they are secretory epithelial cells characterized by the expression of the receptors for systemic hormones ,  i .e .
a luminal layer of epithelium that is part of a prostate gland .
a region of the stomach that is lined with glandular epithelium .
a region of the stomach is lined with non - glandular epithelium .
a hepatic vein that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic vein that is part of a right lobe of liver .
a ring of cartilage that surrounds the acetabulum [ wp , unvetted ]  .
a ring of fibrocartilage attached to the margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula .
an articular capsule that is part of the glenohumeral joint .
an articular capsule that is part of the hip joint .
the transverse tarsal joint is formed by the articulation of the calcaneus with the cuboid ,  and the articulation of the talus with the navicular .
the talocalcaneonavicular articulation is an arthrodial joint: the rounded head of the talus being received into the concavity formed by the posterior surface of the navicular ,  the anterior articular surface of the calcaneus ,  and the upper surface of the plantar calcaneonavicular ligament .
calcaneocuboid articulation  ( articulation of the calcaneus with the cuboid )  .
in a saddle joint  ( sellar joint ,  articulation by reciprocal reception )  the opposing surfaces are reciprocally concave - convex .
the early union ,  by hyaline cartilage ,  of the manubrium and the body of the sternum ,  which later becomes a symphysial type of joint .
the facet of the tubercle of the rib forms an articulation with the adjacent transverse process of a thoracic vertebra .
a skeletal joint that connects a radius bone and connects a carpal skeleton .
an ankle joint that passes between the proximal and distal tarsals .
a skeletal ligament that connects the fibula to the talus .
a skeletal ligament that connects the fibula to the calcaneus
a skeletal ligament that connects a tibia and connects a tarsal skeleton .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manus .
an epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manus .
an epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manus .
a joint that connects the bones of the crus to the proximal tarsal bones
an air - filled recess in the head of birds which lies lateral to the nasal cavity into which it opens
a mucosa that adjacent_to a infraorbital sinus .
the aggregate of the coelemic cavity lumen plus the membranes that line the lumen .
the cavity within a myotome
a bronchiole that is part of a lower lobe of left lung .
a bronchiole that is part of a upper lobe of left lung .
a bronchiole that is part of a lower lobe of right lung .
a lobar bronchus that is part of a middle lobe of right lung .
a lobar bronchus that is part of a upper lobe of left lung .
a lobar bronchus that is part of a lower lobe of left lung .
a bronchiole that arises from a segmental bronchus and does not contain cartilage .
a bronchiole that is part of a middle lobe of right lung .
a tooth that is on the roof of the mouth .
any bone that is part of a palate .
a tooth that is attached to a palatine bone .
a subdivision of skeletal system that subdivision_of a hard palate .
bone that forms as a replacement of another structural tissue .
a skeletal joint that connects a tibia and connects a talus .
the surface of the head of the femur is smooth ,  coated with cartilage in the fresh state ,  except over an ovoid depression ,  the fovea of head of femur ,  which is situated a little below and behind the center of the head ,  and gives attachment to the ligamentum teres .
proximodistal trajectory through a metapterygium [ wagner ] 
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a patella .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a patella .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a bronchus .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a main bronchus .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lobar bronchus .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a segmental bronchus .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a parabronchus .
an extension of the parabronchus ,  the walls of which are the site of gas exchange
one of of three muscles associated with the uncinate processes .
the period spanning the range immediately before and after birth
a salivary gland that is part of a cheek .
cooper's ligaments  ( also known as the suspensory ligaments of cooper and the fibrocollagenous septa )  are connective tissue in the breast that helps maintain structural integrity .
a keratinous sieve composed of bristles that enables filter feeding in the mouth of mysticete whales .
a keratinous bristle that enables filter feeding in the mouth of mysticete whales .
a strut formed from the union of the zygomatic process of the frontal bone with the frontal process of the zygomatic bone .
the part of the zygomatic process consisting of the frontal bone [ wp ] 
a space or gap between two consecutive teeth .
a substance that is consumed by the organism for food .
ingested food has been chewed at the point of swallowing .
a bolus of semi - degraded food regurgitated from the reticulorumen of a ruminant ,  produced during the physical digestive process of rumination
a dental structure found in some mammals ,  comprising a group of front teeth arranged in a manner that facilitates grooming .
any of the passages admitting nutrient vessels to the medullary cavity of bone
an anatomical space that is part of a nutrient foramen conduit ,  leading to the medullary cavity of the bone .
the infraspinatus muscle inserts at this tendon to the distal greater tubercle of the humerus .
a tendon which emerges from the distal end of the humerus and follows the posterior margin of the wing ,  attaching at the distal end of digit 2 .
a tendinous band that connects the phalanges and the flexor muscles of the autopods .
a respiratory pump found in basal craniates
anatomical system that consists of the integumental system plus all mucosae and submucosae .
one of two elements that constitute the basal row of tarsals .
a minute hook that projects off of a feather barbule ,  holding barbules together
outermost point on an external nose or snout
hemispherical ball located at the lower end of the humerus that stands out prominently from the surrounding structures toward the flexor surface of the forelimb
a deep evacuation in the bone ,  into which the anconeal process of the ulna passes when the elbow joint is extended .
endochondral bone located between the proximal and distal rows of carpals or tarsals and thus representing the central carpals or tarsals [ phenoscape ]  .
the intercuneiform articulations are articulations among the cuneiform bones [ wp , unverified ]  .
a segment of the autopod consisting of both acropodial region and metapodial region ,  but excluding the mesopodial / basopodial region .
a digitopodium region that is part of a manus [ obol ]  .
a digitopodium region that is part of a pes [ obol ]  .
a subdivision of the autopod skeleton consisting of both acropodial skeleon and metapodial skeleton ,  but excluding the mesopodial / basopodial skeleton .
a subdivision of the manus skeleton consisting of both manual acropodial skeleton and metacarpal skeleton ,  but excluding the carpal skeleton .
a subdivision of the pes skeleton consisting of both pedal acropodial skeleton and metatarsal skeleton ,  but excluding the tarsal skeleton .
the buccal fat pad is one of several encapsulated fat masses in the cheek .
blood that remains in the placenta and in the attached umbilical cord after childbirth [ wp ]  .
crescent shaped outer zone of the nucleus accumbens ,  defined by a combination of chemoarchitecture and afferent and efferent connections .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a stomach .
the middle suprarenal arteries  ( middle capsular arteries ;  suprarenal arteries )  are two small vessels which arise ,  one from either side of the abdominal aorta ,  opposite the superior mesenteric artery .
a vascular ,  red cutaneous structure attached in a sagittal plane to the dorsum of the skull of domestic fowl .
an apocrine gland that is part of a skin of body .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
tonsils consist of an extensive system of crypts ,  which result in a large internal surface .
an ovarian follicle undergoing maturation .
the supratrochlear artery  ( or frontal artery )  ,  one of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic artery ,  branches off where the ophthalmic travels posterior to the trochlea .
the veins that run parallel to the phrenic arteries which include the two superior and two inferior phrenic veins .
the superior intercostal veins are two veins that drain the 2nd ,  3rd ,  and 4th intercostal spaces ,  one vein for each side of the body .
the intercostal veins are a group of veins which drain the area between the ribs .
a space in the rib cage between two successive ribs .
the posterior intercostal veins are veins that drain the intercostal spaces posteriorly .
the anterior intercostal veins are the veins which drain the anterior intercostal space .
the intercostal lymph nodes  ( intercostal glands  )  occupy the posterior parts of the intercostal spaces ,  in relation to the intercostal vessels .
the superior phrenic vein ,  i .e .
ureteric bud cells that elongate to form a rigid structure  ( stalk )  consisting of polarized epithelial cells without branching ;  the stalks differentiate into the collecting system of the mature kidney ,  while the tip cells interact with the adjacent cells of the metanephric mesenchyme ,  inducing their conversion into nephrons .
network of tubes that carries blood through the distensible musculomembranous organ that serves to collect and store urine excreted by the kidneys [ mp ] 
external opening or orifice of the urethra through which urine and seminal fluid  ( in males only )  leave the body ;  in males the meatus presents as a vertical slit normally positioned at the tip of glans penis ;  in females the meatus is located between the clitoris and the vagina in the vulvular vestibule of the female genitalia [ mp ]  .
a urethral meatus that is part of a male urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the usually crescent - shaped opening of the urinary bladder into the urethra ,  placed at the anteroinferior angle  ( apex )  of the urinary bladder trigone
raised calluses of cornified epidermis used by the male to hold the female during mating .
a temporary layer between old and new skin that is invalided by white blood cells [ kardong ]  .
a protein fiber composed mainly of fibroin and produced by certain arthropods [ wp , modified ]  .
a follicular lumen is the closed cavity within a follicle of the thyroid gland .
mucus - secreting glands in the mucosa of the uterine cervix
lining of the head of the uterus  ( cervix )  ;  contains large branched glands ;  does not undergo sloughing .
the part of the cervix uteri that protrudes into the vagina and is lined with stratified squamous epithelium .
a glandular epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix .
a epithelium that is part of a ectocervix .
the glandular epithelium that lines the endocervix .
region of cervical epithelium where columnar epithelium of endocervic and the stratified non - keratinising squamous epithelium of the ectocervic meet
an artery that originates from the abdominal aorta
the inferior phrenic arteries are two small vessels ,  which supply the diaphragm but present much variety in their origin .
a manual digit found in aves that is the most preaxial position and is morphologically similar to digit 1 in the standard tetrapod configuration and develops from embryonic digit 2 ,  with contributions from embryonic digit 1 .
a manual digit found in aves that is morphologically similar to digit 2 in the standard tetrapod configuration and develops from embryonic digit 3 .
a manual digit found in aves that is morphologically similar to digit 3 in the standard tetrapod configuration and develops from embryonic digit 4 .
the splint bones sit either side of the equine cannon bone .
a splint bone in the metacarpal region
a splint bone in the metatarsal region
the distinct low fold of tissue that separates the non - glandular area of the stomach  ( forestomach )  from the glandular stomach ;  the limiting ridge extends circumferentially from the large curvature of the stomach to the small curvature ,  just below the esophagus ;  at the esophagus ,  the course of the limiting ridge bends into a u - shape and almost surrounds the esophageal opening
the common bile duct and the pancreatic duct together perforate the medial side of the second portion of the duodenum obliquely ,  some 7 to 10 cm below the pylorus ,  forming a structure called the major duodenal papilla .
the minor duodenal papilla is the opening of the accessory pancreatic duct into the duodenum .
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
the nasal glands are the seromucous glands in the respiratory region of the nasal mucous membrane .
small bodies containing chromaffin cells occurring outside of the adrenal medulla ,  most commonly near the sympathetic ganglia and in organs such as the kidney ,  liver ,  heart and gonads .
a holocrine gland that is part of the pilosebaceous unit of a hair located in the area around the anus .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the mammary gland
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the femur
one of two hemispheres of the embryo at the zygote or blastula stage [ wp , modified ] 
a epithelial sac that is part of a rathke's pouch .
a tarsal bone that is formed from the fusion of the central and 4th tarsal bones .
a tarsal bone that is formed from the fusion of the 2nd and 3rd tarsal bones .
a carpal bone that is formed from the fusion of the 2nd and 3rd distal carpal bones .
malleolus is the name for the bony prominence on each side of the ankle .
one of the pair of mesenchymal swellings  ( folds )  located on either side of the cloacal membrane during the indifferent stage of embryonic development ;  cranial to the cloacal membrane the folds unite to form the genital tubercle ;  caudally the folds are subdivided into urogenital folds anteriorly and anal folds posteriorly
a slight elevation flanking the cloacal membrane and derived from a cloacal fold ;  anal folds form the border of the anus .
the dilated terminal portion of the male spongy urethra located in the glans penis right before the external urethral orifice ,  also referred to as the most distal pendulous urethra ;  it is lined by stratified squamous ,  non - keratinizing epithelium ;  during development ,  the glans of the penis is initially solid but cannulates to give rise to the navicular fossa .
an inconstant fold or valve of mucous membrane sometimes found in the root or upper wall of the navicular fossa of the urethra
a longitudinal mucosal fold in the dorsal wall of the urethra [ mp ] 
narrow longitudinal fold of mucosa on the posterior wall of the male urethra ,  extending from the uvula of the bladder through the prostatic urethra ;  when distended ,  it may serve to prevent the passage of the semen backward into the bladder ;  on either side of the male urethral crest is a slightly depressed fossa ,  the prostatic sinus ,  the floor of which is perforated by the orifices of the prostatic ducts from the lateral lobes of the prostate ;  the ducts of the middle lobe open behind the crest ;  at the forepart of the crest ,  below its summit ,  is a median elevation ,  the colliculus seminalis ,  upon or within the margins of which are the orifices of the prostatic utricle and the slit - like openings of the ejaculatory ducts [ mp ] 
the conspicuous longitudinal fold of mucosa on the posterior wall of the female urethra [ mp ] 
a mucosa that is part of a urethra .
a transient developing limb structure that develops from the limb bud ;  it is a dorsoventral flattening of the limb bud structure and develops into the foot plate
a membranous urethra of male or female that is part of a female urethra .
the shortest ,  least dilatable ,  and ,  with the exception of the external orifice ,  the narrowest part of the male urethral canal located in the deep perineal pouch and lined by pseudostratified columnar epithelium ;  it extends downward and forward ,  with a slight anterior concavity ,  between the apex of the prostate and the bulb of the urethra ,  perforating the urogenital diaphragm below and behind the pubic symphysis ;  the membranous portion of the urethra is completely surrounded by the fibers of the sphincter urethrae membranaceae ;  on either side near its termination are the bulbourethral glands
the slit - like opening of either ureter into the bladder ;  normally ,  the two ureteral orifices are placed at the posterolateral angles of the urinary bladder trigone while the internal urethral orifice is placed at its anteroinferior angle  ( apex )  ;  wide gaping usually indicates vesicoureteral reflux
caudally blind - ending cutaneous pouch lined with skin that occupies the nasoincisive notch .
a fold of skin at the caudal border of the auricle .
a cervical lymph nodes are found in proximity to an internal or external jugular vein .
the anterior cervical lymph nodes are a group of nodes found on the anterior part of the neck .
the superficial lateral cervical lymph nodes are found in proximity to the external jugular vein .
the superficial anterior cervical lymph nodes are found in proximity to the anterior jugular vein .
the deep lateral cervical lymph nodes are found near the upper part of the internal jugular vein in the neck ,  lateral or posterior to the carotid sheath .
the deep anterior cervical lymph nodes are found near the middle cricothyroid ligament and the trachea .
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
the point where the primary palate and both palatine shelves fuse .
roof of the buccal cavity ,  formed from the fusion of vomer ,  pterygoid ,  parasphenoid ,  palatine ,  ectopterygoid .
the median slit located inferior and posterior to the external urethral orifice in the female ;  the exit for menstrual flow and birth and the entrance for the penis during sexual intercourse ;  the size and appearance of the vaginal orifice varies inversely with that of the hymen  ( g . membrane )  ,  a thin fold of mucous membrane that surrounds the vaginal orifice
the anterior ethmoidal artery ,  also anterior ethmoid artery is an artery of the head .
the posterior ethmoidal artery is an artery of the head .
an artery of the neck
the deep cervical artery  ( profunda cervicalis )  is an artery of the neck .
the ascending cervical artery is a small branch which arises from the inferior thyroid artery as that vessel is passing behind the carotid sheath ;  it runs up on the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrc& in the interval between the scalenus anterior and longus capitis .
the transverse cervical artery  ( transverse artery of neck ,  transversa colli artery )  is a branch of the thyrocervical trunk ,  running at a higher level than the suprascapular artery .
corpora allata with corpora cardiaca form the retrocerebral complex ,  a neurosecretory organ .
the caudal ,  swollen portion of the gubernaculum .
small saliences on the ridge of the glans of the male genital organs .
keratinized structures along the glans and / or shaft of their penis that may be involved in sexual selection .
keratinized stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesize and accumulate keratin .
the lymphocytic cell population present in the mucosa of the nasopharyngeal duct of some animals .
the mesosalpinx is part of the lining of the abdominal cavity in higher vertebrates ,  specifically the portion of the broad ligament that stretches from the uterine tube to the level of the ovary .
a broad fold of peritoneum that extends from the side of the uterus to the wall of the pelvis .
a pouch formed by the mesosalpinx and the mesovarium that encloses the infundibulum of the uterine tube and the ovary
a fluid - filled sac that lies between the navicular bone and the deep digital flexor muscle
a navicular bursa that is part of a manus .
a zone of skin that is part of the area surrounding the anus .
the cauda equina is a structure within the lower end of the spinal column of most vertebrates ,  that consists of nerve roots and rootlets from above .
a navicular bursa that is part of a pes .
any exocrine gland whose secretion consists of its own disintegrated secretory cells along with its secretory product ;  holocrine secretions are produced in the cytoplasm of the cell and released by the rupture of the plasma membrane ,  which destroys the cell and results in the secretion of the product into the lumen .
pigmented ,  keratinised ,  hairless epidermis covering subcutaneous ,  collagenous ,  and adipose tissue .
a thick spongy structure at the base of the autopod ,  centred over the flexor surfaces of the distal interphalangeal joints .
an autopod pad found in the carpal region of a manus .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a urachus .
extracellular matrix secreted by intraglomerular mesangial cells
skeletal subdivision consisting of all the skeletal elements in a single fin .
the segment of the autopod that is distal to the metapodial region and consists of the digits .
the segment of the manus that is distal to the metacarpal region and consists of the manual digits  ( fingers )  .
the segment of the pes that is distal to the metatarsal region and consists of the pedal digits  ( toes )  .
a bone that is part of a the digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone that is part of a the manual digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone that is part of a the pedal digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone element that is part of a jaw region .
a epithelium that is part of a thyroid follicle .
portion of substance contained within the thyroid follicle lumen .
a muscle layer that is part of an intestine .
the inner layer of the muscular coat .
the outer layer of the muscular coat .
a nerve plexus that is part of a sympathetic nervous system .
the subserous part of the enteric plexus of autonomic nerves
a layer of tissue between the muscularis and serosa .
the small area behind the wisdom teeth
a muscular coat that is part of a jejunum .
a muscular coat that is part of a urinary bladder .
a circular muscle layer of muscular coat that is part of a large intestine smooth muscle .
a longitudinal muscle layer of muscular coat that is part of a large intestine smooth muscle .
a circular muscle layer of muscular coat that is part of a small intestine smooth muscle .
a longitudinal muscle layer of muscular coat that is part of a small intestine smooth muscle .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system venous blood vessel .
the taeniae coli  ( also teniae coli )  are three separate longitudinal ribbons of smooth muscle on the outside of the ascending ,  transverse ,  descending and sigmoid colons .
most proximal cloacal compartment ,  into which the large intestine empties [ kardong ] 
cloacal compartment into which the urogenital system empties [ kardong ] 
nutritional fluid secreted by the crop in some species [ kardong ] 
a layer of microvilli ,  thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments [ go , modified ] 
the microvilli - covered surface of simple cuboidal epithelium and simple columnar epithelium cells found in certain locations of the body .
a microvillus layer that is striated and found in the intestine .
a layer of microvilli covering lymphocytes .
a brush border layer that is part of a intestine .
a brush border layer that is part of a proximal tubule in the kidney .
blood - forming tissue ,  consisting of reticular fibers and cells .
the sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye ;  the sclera is opaque ,  and constitutes the posterior five - sixths of the tunic ;  the cornea is transparent ,  and forms the anterior sixth .
a anatomical line that adjacent_to a epithelium and adjacent_to a mesenchyme .
a blastema that is part of a regenerating fin / limb .
a blastema that is part of a distal segment of digit .
a endothelium that is part of a peritubular capillary .
the passage of communication ,  or foramen ,  between the general cavity  ( of the abdomen )  ,  and the omental bursa .
a single row of large ventral scales in snakes that aid locomotion .
retained pelvic vestiges found in birds .
a horny sheath covering the lower leg of some birds .
the corpuscles of herbst or herbst corpuscles are a nerve - ending similar to the pacinian corpuscle ,  in the mucous membrane of the tongue ,  in pits on the beak and in other parts of the bodies of birds .
a sensory receptor that responds to mechanical pressure or distortion .
a type of nerve ending in the skin that is responsible for sensitivity to light touch .
a sensory nerve ending that responds to a stimulus in the internal or external environment of an organism .
specialized terminations of peripheral neurons .
mechanoreceptors found in the skin and mucosa of vertebrates that provide touch information to the brain .
an encapsulated nerve receptor present in subpapillary dermis and deep dermis of hairy and glabrous skin .
highly vascular skin called velvet that covers the antler whilst it grows ,  supplying oxygen and nutrients to the growing bone .
attachment point for antler on skull
most distal cloacal compartment ;  function is copulation and in some species develops a penis [ kardong ] 
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a cloaca .
the opening of the cloacal chamber to the outside of the organism .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a terminal part of digestive tract .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
triangular calcified papillae  ( often five )  placed radially around the anus of some holothuriidae
ligament extending between the liver and stomach
the hepatoduodenal ligament is the portion of the lesser omentum extending between the porta hepatis of the liver and the superior part of the duodenum .
small tentacle - like structure surrounding the mouth ;  they act as sensory devices and as a filter for the water passing into the body
a ventral evagination extending anteriorly in the mid - portion of the intestine in amphioxi .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pectoral complex  -  i .e .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic complex  -  i .e .
the posterior region of the neck ,  including the suboccipital region .
a gland that is part of a cloaca .
a gland that is part of a urodeum .
a mucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cloaca .
a submucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a cloaca .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a vagina .
a muscular coat that is part of a duodenum .
a muscular coat that is part of a colon .
a muscular coat that is part of a anal canal .
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a duodenum .
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a rectum .
a serous membrane that is part of a vermiform appendix .
a serous membrane that is part of a fallopian tube .
a serous membrane that is part of a fundus of stomach .
a adventitia that is part of a esophagus .
the superficial - most muscle of the anterior surface of the arm is the epitrochlearis .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a umbilical cord .
any muscle organ that is part of a aristotle's lantern .
the vestimentum is a muscle that the tubeworm uses to anchro itself in the tube .
vascularized tip of their free end of a tubeworm which is an organ for exchanging compounds with the environment .
an organ of dark green - brown spongy tissue in a tubeworm which is a host to symbiotic microbes
organ at the distal end of a tubeworm .
the ampulla is the second portion of the uterine tube .
one of a pair of thin sheets of smooth muscle inserting on the rectum ,  having a tendinous origin largely on sacral vertebrae .
a anatomical junction that connects a stomach and connects a duodenum .
a mucosa that is part of a gastroduodenal junction .
the subdivision of the digestive tract that consists of the colon and the rectum .
a mucosa that is part of a colorectum .
a bony protuberance sometimes found on the hard palate at the junction of the intermaxillary suture and the transverse palatine suture .
a depression on the ventral side of the femur ,  at the knee joint ,  between the condyles .
a roughly triangular flap of skin on the wing of a bird or pterosaur which fills the space bounded by the humerus and ulna .
an extension of the frontal sinus into the horn
a duct that is part of a venom gland .
solutions or mixtures of toxic and nontoxic substances elaborated by snake  ( ophidia )  salivary glands for the purpose of killing prey or disabling predators and delivered by grooved or hollow fangs .
a fang that is used to inject venom into prey ,  through either a tube or a groove
venoms from snakes of the family elapidae ,  including cobras ,  kraits ,  mambas ,  coral ,  tiger ,  and australian snakes .
venoms of sea snakes ,  hydrophiinae ,  found around pacific islands .
venoms from snakes of the viperid family .
bone formed from the fusion of angular and surangular bones .
a prominent compressor muscle found in poisonous snakes that originates in the lower jaw ,  sweeps around the venom gland ,  and inserted on the gland's surface .
a depression or fissure in the surface of the brain .
a lymphoid organ found in various mammals and some birds .
a posterior cardinal vein that is in_the_left_side_of a multicellular organism .
a subcardinal vein that is in_the_left_side_of a multicellular organism .
a vein that is part of a abdomen .
the part of the venous system that drains the lungs [ kardong ] 
just before each crus of the penis meets its fellow it presents a slight enlargement ,  named by kobelt the bulb of the corpus spongiosum penis .
aggregations of erectile tissue that are an internal part of the clitoris .
one of the small straight arteries of the red pulp of the spleen ;  a branch of the spleen central artery that supplies the red pulp [ wp , modified ] 
a phrenic artery that arises from the lower part of the thoracic aorta and is distributed to the posterior part of the upper surface of the diaphragm ,  and anastomoses with the musculophrenic and pericardiacophrenic arteries .
the interdental plate refers to the bone - filled mesial - distal region between the teeth
a vein that drains a lip .
either the superficial or deep external pudendal arteries
the coronary ligament of the liver refers to parts of the peritoneal reflections that hold the liver to the inferior surface of the diaphragm .
a nonskeletal ligament that is part of a liver .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
a localized group of blood capillaries .
a vein that drains the soleus
a vein that drains the gastrocnemius
one of two arteries  ( anterior and posterior choroidal artery )  that supply blood to the choroid plexus ,  optic tract ,  hippocampus ,  globus pallidus ,  and other various brain regions .
a temporary opening between the developing ventricles of the heart .
small protrusions of the arachnoid mater into vascular sinuses ,  acting as one - way pressure - sensitive valves .
a gland that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a telencephalic ventricle that is in_the_left_side_of a telencephalon .
a telencephalic ventricle that is in_the_right_side_of a telencephalon .
a molar or premolar
a depression in front of the epiglottis ,  in which food is temporarily gathered as the animal chews .
on the upper surface of the cerebellum the vermis is elevated above the level of the hemispheres ,  but on the under surface it is sunk almost out of sight in the bottom of a deep depression between them ;  this depression is called the vallecula of the cerebellum ,  and lodges the posterior part of the medulla oblongata .
laryngeal ligament that connects the cricoid cartilage to the pharynx [ wp , modified ] 
laryngeal ligament that connects the epiglottis to the thyroid cartilage [ wp , modified ] 
the vestibular fold is a fibroelastic band which passes from the ventral margin of the cuneiform cartilage to the cranial dorsal surface of the thyroid cartilage .
laryngeal ligament that connects the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages [ wp , modified ] 
this attaches the caudal border of the thyroid cartilage to the ventral arch of the cricoid cartilage .
the cricotracheal ligament connects the cricoid cartilage with the first ring of the trachea [ wp ]  .
the anterior aspect of the tympanum .
a wavy crest externally on the tympanic bone of cetaceans .
an air sac opening into the passage of the blowhole that is hypothesized to be involved in echolocation
the core component of the ovoid - shaped ,  fatty organ found in the forehead of all toothed whales .
a structure consisting of a pair of anterior and posterior dorsal bursae in which a pair of phonic lips are embedded ,  along with the bursal cartilage and a blowhole ligament
entotympanics are independent elements present in the auditory bullae of various eutherians
the layer of the ovarian stroma lying immediately beneath the tunica albuginea ,  composed of connective tissue cells and fibers ,  among which are scattered primary and secondary  ( antral )  follicles in various stages of development ;  the cortex varies in thickness according to the age of the individual ,  becoming thinner with advancing years ;  included in the follicles are the cumulus oophorus ,  membrana granulosa  ( and the granulosa cells inside it )  ,  corona radiata ,  zona pellucida ,  and primary oocyte ;  the zona pellucida ,  theca of follicle ,  antrum and liquor folliculi are also contained in the follicle ;  also in the cortex is the corpus luteum derived from the follicles .
highly vascular stroma found in the center of the ovary that forms from embryonic mesenchyme and contains blood vessels ,  lymphatic vessels ,  and nerves ;  this stroma forms the tissue of the hilum by which the ovarian ligament is attached ,  and through which the blood vessels enter ;  it does not contain any ovarian follicles .
an epithelium that is characterized by incomplete keratinization of the cells in the stratum corneum .
a keratinized epithelium in which the cells of the stratum corneum become very flat ,  loose their nuclei and cytoplasmic organelles and are now composed of densely packed tonofilaments cemented by filaggrin
a parakeratinized epithelium that is part of a gingiva .
a strand of pelage hair that is crimped and grows in clusters
a casing spun of silk by many moth caterpillars ,  and numerous other holometabolous insect larvae as a protective covering for the pupa [ wp ]  .
set of nerve fibers conducting impulses from olfactory receptors to the cerebral cortex .
the hypogastrium  ( or hypogastric region ,  or pubic region )  is an area of the human abdomen located below the navel .
one of a pair of bones running antero - laterally from the centre of the pubis in marsupials and some other mammals
a fleshy appendage ringing the snout of a star - nosed mole .
a canal through the medial epicondyle at the distal end of the vertebrate humerus ,  usually traversed by the median nerve and brachial artery .
an olfactory ganglion at the entrance of the nose of mammals that is involved in the detection of alarm pheromones and cold temperatures .
a specialized sudoriferous gland  ( sweat glands )  located subcutaneously in the external auditory canal .
a bodily secretion that is produced by a gland of anal sac .
ossicones are horn - like protuberances on the heads of giraffes ,  male okapis ,  and their extinct relatives ,  such as sivatherium ,  and the climacoceratids ,  such as climacoceras .
a large pendulous organ consisting of two or more mammary glands enclosed in a common envelope and each provided with a single nipple .
in rodent anatomy ,  the zygomatic plate is a bony plate derived from the flattened front part of the zygomatic arch  ( cheekbone )  .
a rete mirabile  ( latin for 'wonderful net' ;  plural retia mirabilia )  is a complex of arteries and veins lying very close to each other ,  found in some vertebrates .
the parotoid gland  ( alternatively ,  paratoid gland )  is an external skin gland on the back ,  neck ,  and shoulder of toads and some frogs and salamanders .
a hole with that connects the left and right aorta in animals of the order crocodilia .
the caudofemoralis  ( from the latin cauda ,  tail and femur ,  thighbone )  is a muscle found in the pelvic limb of mostly all animals possessing a tail ,  since it is a synapomorphy appeared on the archosauria clade .
otic notches are invagination in the posterior margin of the skull roof ,  one behind each orbit .
in contrast to tubular glands ,  in the second main variety of gland ,  the secretory portion is enlarged and the lumen variously increased in size .
ciaccio's glands are small tubular accessory lacrimal glands  ( glandulae lacrimales accessoriae )  found in the lacrimal caruncle of the eyelid .
serous gland with distended lumen .
crypts of henle are microscopic pockets found in scattered sections of the conjunctiva around the eyeball .
glands of moll ,  also known as ciliary glands ,  are modified apocrine sweat glands that are found on the margin of the eyelid .
any gland that is part of an eyelid .
a gland producing tears in a third eyelid in the corner of each eye .
any of the sebaceous glands that are in the eyelid .
the secretory unit of a serous gland .
a lateral nasal gland that removes sodium chloride from the bloodstream .
the violet gland or supracaudal gland is an important gland located on the upper surface of the tail of certain mammals ,  including european badgers and canids such as foxes ,  wolves the domestic dog ,  as well as the domestic cat .
a major organism subdivisionthat is the entire part of an anatomical structure ventral to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same horizontal plane .
the subdivision of the trunk that overlaps with the ventrum .
the genital papilla is a part of female external genitalia not present in humans ,  which appears as a small ,  fleshy flab of tissue .
a future glans that is part of a male genital tubercle .
a future glans that is part of a female genital tubercle .
the precursor of the urethra
the vaginal plate is a precursor to the inferior portion of the vagina .
solid evaginations of the ug sinus that develops into a vaginal plate that which will will eventually canalize to form the inferior portion of the vagina .
a epithelial tube that develops from a mullerian duct in a male .
a small collection of convoluted tubules ,  situated in front of the lower part of the cord above the head of the epididymis .
a collection of a few scattered rudimentary tubules child ,  situated in the broad ligament between the epoophoron and the uterus .
in connection with the fimbriae of the uterine tube ,  or with the broad ligament close to them ,  there are frequently one or more small pedunculated vesicles .
remnant in a female of the portion of the embryonic mesonephric duct that develops into the ductus deferens in males .
incompletely obliterated remnants of the vaginal process of the peritoneum remaining in the spermatic cord .
a patent pouch of peritoneum extending into the labia majora of women .
a diaphysis that is part of a fibula [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a diaphysis that is part of a tibia .
a silver reflective layer in the outer choroid ,  adjacent to the sclera ,  frequently present in fish larvae but not as frequent in adults .
a gland that is part of a optic choroid .
the asterion is the point on the skull corresponding to the posterior end of the parietomastoid suture .
the bregma is the anatomical point on the skull at which the coronal suture is intersected perpendicularly by the sagittal suture .
anatomical cavity that is the lumen of the skull and contains the brain .
the crotaphion refers to two points on the skull at the tips of the greater wing of sphenoid bone .
the epicranium is the medical term for the collection of structures covering the cranium .
groove for sigmoid sinus is a groove in the posterior cranial fossa .
the infratemporal fossa is an irregularly shaped cavity ,  situated below and medial to the zygomatic arch .
the jugal point is the point at the anterior end of the upper border of the zygomatic arch where the masseteric and maxillary edges meet at an angle .
the occipital angle is rounded and corresponds with the point of meeting of the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures - a point which is termed the lambda  ( after the greek letter of the same name )  ;  in the fetus this part of the skull is membranous ,  and is called the posterior fontanelle .
the point of the sagittal suture which is on a level with the parietal foramina .
a prominent bulge ,  or projection ,  of the occipital bone at the back of the skull [ wp ]  .
the ophryon is the point in the forehead just above the optic foramen ,  or eyesocket ,  and glabella .
the porion is the point on the human skull located at the upper margin of each ear canal  ( external auditory meatus ,  external acoustic meatus )  .
the postorbital process marks the rear ,  upper edge of the eye socket and is a projection from the frontal bone .
the pterygomaxillary fissure is a fissure of the human skull .
a ridge of bone running lengthwise along the midline of the top of the skull of many mammalian and reptilian skulls and serves as an attachment site for the temporailis muscle [ wp , modified ]  .
the sagittal keel  ( torus )  is a thickening of bone on part or all of the midline of the frontal bone ,  or parietal bones where they meet along the sagittal suture ,  or on both bones . .
a bony buttress on the inner surface of the foremost part of the ape mandible ,  functioning to reinforce the mandible .
the speno - maxillary fossa is a small triangular space situated at the angle of the junction of the spheno - maxillary and pterygo - maxillary fissures ,  and placed beneath the apex of the orbit .
the sphenopetrosal fissure  ( or sphenopetrosal suture )  is the cranial suture between the sphenoid bone and the petrous portion of the temporal bone .
the point where the upper temporal line cuts the coronal suture is named the stephanion .
the suprainiac fossa is an elliptic depression on the occiput above the superior nuchal line ,  or inion .
the sylvian point is the point on the human skull nearest the sylvian fissure and is located about 30 millimeters behind the zygomatic process of frontal bone .
the temporal fossa is a shallow depression on the side of the skull bounded by the temporal lines and terminating below the level of the zygomatic arch .
the zygomasseteric system  ( or zygomasseteric structure )  in rodents is the anatomical arrangement of the masseter muscle of the jaw and the zygomatic arch of the skull .
the zygomatic fossa is an irregularly shaped cavity ,  situated below and on the inner side of the zygoma ;  bounded ,  in front ,  by the zygomatic surface of the superior maxillary bone and the ridge which descends from its malar process ;  behind ,  by the posterior border of the external pterygoid plate and the eminentia articularis ;  above ,  by the pterygoid ridge on the outer surface of the great wing of the sphenoid and the under part of the squamous portion of the temporal ;  below by the alveolar border of the superior maxilla ;  internally ,  by the external pterygoid plate ;  and externally ,  by the zygomatic arch ramus of the lower jaw .
near the middle of the occipital squama is the external occipital protuberance ,  and extending lateralward from it on either side is the superior nuchal line ,  and above this the faintly marked highest nuchal line .
the retromolar space or retromolar gap is a space at the rear of a mandible ,  between the back of the last molar and the anterior edge of the ascending ramus where it crosses the alveolar margin .
the upper one third of esophagus in which the muscle layer is composed of muscle cells of the striated type .
the lower one third of the esophagus in which the muscle layer is composed of muscle cells predominantly of the smooth type .
the middle one third of the esophagus in which the muscle layer is composed of muscle cells of the striated and smooth types .
a serous salivary gland which resides adjacent to the moats surrounding the circumvallate papillae in the posterior one - third of the tongue ,  anterior to the terminal sulcus .
a hole at the top of a cetacean's head through which the animal breathes air
a thickened round patch of lymphoid tissue located at the ileocecal junction adjacent to the sacculus rotundus .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an intestinal crypt that is located in the ileum .
an intestinal crypt that is located in the duodenum .
an intestinal crypt that is located in the jejunum .
an intestinal crypt that is located in the colon .
an intestinal crypt that is located in the appendix .
the grooves in the outermost layer of skin on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet where sweat glands open .
the panniculus adiposus is the fatty layer of the subcutaneous tissues ,  superficial to a deeper vestigial layer of muscle ,  the panniculus carnosus .
superficial cervical fascia is a thin layer of subcutaneous connective tissue that lies between the dermis of the skin and the deep cervical fascia .
the deep cervical fascia  ( or fascia colli in older texts )  lies under cover of the platysma ,  and invests the neck ;  it also forms sheaths for the carotid vessels ,  and for the structures situated in front of the vertebral column .
any fascia tissue that is part of the neck region .
the prevertebral fascia  ( or prevertebral layer of cervical fascia )  is a fascia in the neck .
a fascia that is part of a abdomen .
a modified strand of hair covered in a keratin coat ,  as found in porcupines and hedgehogs .
a keratin - coated spine that is tipped with a barb .
a keratin - coated spine that is lacks a barbed end .
a fringe of muscle running along the periphery of the panniculus .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a cloaca .
a mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 5 .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a lumbar vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a lumbar vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a long muscle found in reptiles that originates on the ilium and crosses the acetabulum and the knee joint before being inserted on the tibia .
one of two rows of feathers encircling the cloaca
the space that surrounds an organism .
a section through the tube or network of tubes that connects the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the second segment of the oviduct .
the third segment of the oviduct .
one of two lateral tracts connecting a uterus to a common median tract separated from the median vagina via ureters which prevent their fusion .
a median canal in the reproductive system of marsupials that connects the uteri to a common tract ,  joining with the two lateral vaginas .
the anatomical space that is enclosed by a stomach .
a anatomical cavity that is part of a ear vesicle .
a bump or swelling adorining the head and leading edge of a pectoral flipper ,  associated with the multiple joints and terminal phalanges as found in the multiple phalanges of the humpback whale
brodmann area 11 is one of brodmann's cytologically defined regions of the brain .
a segmentation of the cerebral cortex on the basis of cytoarchitecture as described in brodmann - 1905 ,  brodmann - 1909 and brodmann - 10 .
the retrosplenial region is a brain area and part of the cingulate cortex .
the term area 4 of brodmann - 1909 refers to a cytoarchitecturally defined portion of the frontal lobe of the guenon .
brodmann area 7 is one of brodmann's cytologically defined regions of the brain .
brodmann area 8 is one of brodmann's cytologically defined regions of the brain .
brodmann area 10 ,  or ba10 ,  is part of the frontal cortex in the human brain .
brodmann area 12 is a subdivision of the cerebral cortex of the guenon defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture .
brodmann area 13 is a subdivision of the cerebral cortex as defined on the guenon monkey and on the basis of cytoarchitecture .
brodmann area 14 is one of brodmann's subdivisions of the cerebral cortex in the brain .
brodmann area 15 is one of brodmann's subdivisions of the cerebral cortex in the brain .
brodmann area 16 is a subdivision of the cerebral cortex of the guenon defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture .
brodmann area 19 ,  or ba19 ,  is part of the occipital lobe cortex in the human brain .
brodmann area 20 ,  or ba20 ,  is part of the temporal cortex in the human brain .
brodmann area 21 ,  or ba21 ,  is part of the temporal cortex in the human brain .
brodmann area 22 is one of brodmann's cytologically defined regions of the brain .
the term area 23 of brodmann - 1909 refers to a subdivision of the cerebral cortex of the guenon defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture .
brodmann area 25  ( ba25 )  is an area in the cerebral cortex of the brain and delineated based on its cytoarchitectonic characteristics .
area 27 of brodmann - 1909 is a cytoarchitecturally defined cortical area that is a rostral part of the parahippocampal gyrus of the guenon  ( brodmann - 1909 )  .
the brodmann area 32 ,  also known in the human brain as the dorsal anterior cingulate area 32 ,  refers to a subdivision of the cytoarchitecturally defined cingulate region of cerebral cortex .
brodmann area 43 is a subdivision of the cerebral cortex of the guenon defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture .
brodmann area 40 ,  or ba40 ,  is part of the parietal cortex in the human brain .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 1 plus metapodial segment .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 2 plus metapodial segment .
a metapodial bone that is associated with digit iii .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 4 plus metapodial segment .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 5 plus metapodial segment .
an element formed from the fusion of metapodium 3 and metapodium 4  ( i .e .
an element formed from the fusion of metacarpal 3 and metacarpal 4 .
an element formed from the fusion of metatarsal 3 and metatarsal 4 .
regions of the cerebal cortex characterized by a particularly well - developed inner granular layer  ( layer 4 )  ;  this type of cerebral cortex is represented by the primary sensory brodmann area 17 of the visual cortex ,  brodmann areas 1 - 3 of the somatic sensory cortex ,  and brodmann area 41 of the auditory cortex .
a deep groove which runs transversely across the rostro - dorsal surface of the cerebrum and which is one of the landmarks on the cerebral cortex .
one of a set of small groups of neuron cell bodies located along the trajectory of optic fibers in the mesencephalon .
the fasciulus aberrans is a distinct bundle of fibers at the dorsal aspect of the anterior commisure .
a primary molar tooth that is part of a upper jaw region .
a secondary molar tooth that is part of a upper jaw region .
a primary molar tooth that is part of a lower jaw region .
a secondary molar tooth that is part of a lower jaw region .
a autopod pad that is part of a manus .
a autopod pad that is part of a pes .
short bones are designated as those bones that are as wide as they are long .
ossicle that develops within bands of dense ,  regular connective tissue  ( e .g . ,  tendons and ligaments )  .
a sesamoid element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the intertrochanteric crest is a bony ridge located on the posterior side of the head of the femur ,  stretching obliquely downward and medially from the summit of the greater trochanter to the lesser trochanter .
the intertrochanteric line  ( or spiral line of the femur )  is a line located on the anterior side of the proximal end of the femur that stretches between the lesser trochanter and the greater trochanter forming the base of the neck of the femur ,  roughly following the direction of the shaft of the femur .
a epithelium that is part of a intestinal villus .
the prostate gland lobe that is located on the lateral side of the organ .
a ring of ciliated tentacles surrounding the mouth
the very first part of the duodenum which is slightly dilated .
a gland that is part of the gular region  ( throat ) 
the buccal nerve  ( also called the long buccal nerve )  is a nerve in the face .
a nerve that innervates the lateral pterygoid muscle .
the masseteric artery is small and passes laterally through the mandibular notch to the deep surface of the masseter muscle ,  which it supplies .
a tarsal bone that is formed from the fusion of the 1st and 2nd tarsal bones .
subdivision of skeleton that is part of the velum and consists of a complex arrangement of thin cartilage rods and arches
a diverticulum on the lingual aspect of the soft palate of male dromedaries which may be inflated with air and be extruded from the oral cavity during rut .
a fatty deposit found on the back of camels .
a bulbous ridge of highly vascularized tissue that runs along the center of the hard palate ,  expanding cranially to form two large lobes that terminate under the tip of the rostral palate ,  with another enlarged node at the caudal terminus .
a erectile tissue that is part of a corpus cavernosum maxillaris .
a complex muscular and bony clasping and copulatory organ derived mainly from the pelvic fins ,  found under the head of male phallostethoidea with the anus opening on one side and the genital pore on the other .
bone of the priapium .
a curved rod - like clasper on the posterior side of the priapium in phallostethidae .
a long curved projection from the anterior end of the priapium in some phallostethidae
the ventral element in the priapium of the phallostethidae on which articulate the ctenactinia  ( q .v . )  .
an anatomical line of the face that connects the two inner  ( medial )  canthi of the eye .
a inner canthus that is part of a right eye .
a inner canthus that is part of a left eye .
region of retina that extends from central retina to ora serrata .
a dorsal thalamus that is in_the_left_side_of a diencephalon .
a dorsal thalamus that is in_the_right_side_of a diencephalon .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone of the skull .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
periosteum that is part of a skull .
a germinal center that is part of a tonsil .
lymphoid tissue located in the appendix .
a zone of soft tissue located on the posterior of the lateral side of the pelvic region corresponding to the gluteal muscles .
inframammary fold ,  inframammary crease or inframammary line is the feature of human anatomy which is a natural boundary of a breast from below ,  the place where the breast and the chest meet .
a neuropil that is part of a cerebral cortex  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
vascular endothelium found in blood vessels of the blood - brain - barrier .
vascular endothelium found in colon blood vessels .
the epithelium that forms the surface of the tonsil dips into the underlying connective tissue in numerous places ,  forming crypts kown as tonsillar crypts .
epithelium lining the exocrine pancreas .
a hair in the frontal genital area of adolescent and adult humans ,  located on and around the sex organs ,  the crotch ,  and sometimes at the top of the inside of the thighs ,  in the pubic region around the pubis bone .
a strand of hair that is part of a axilla .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
anatomical projection that is part of the integumentl system .
a tubular passage that extends from the primitive pit into the head process during the early stages of embryonic development in mammals .
the deep layer  ( fascia of scarpa )  is a layer of the anterior abdominal wall .
a bone spine that is part of a ilium .
the anterior superior iliac spine  ( asis )  is an important landmark of surface anatomy .
the anterior inferior iliac spine  ( aiis )  is a bony eminence on the anterior border of the hip bone ,  or ,  more precisely ,  the wing of the ilium  ( i .e .
the posterior border of the ala ,  shorter than the anterior ,  also presents two projections separated by a notch ,  the posterior superior iliac spine and the posterior inferior iliac spine .
the posterior border of the ala ,  shorter than the anterior ,  also presents two projections separated by a notch ,  the posterior superior iliac spine and the posterior inferior iliac spine .
a muscle that originates on the anterior iliac spine that passes through the inguinal canal before dividing into four branches ,  each attaching to a pouch nipple
one of the branches of the ilio - marsupialis that attaches to a pouch nipple
the exit of the inguinal canal .
the dartos fascia is a fat - free layer of smooth muscular fiber outside the external spermatic fascia but below the skin .
a dartos muscle that is part of a male reproductive system .
a dartos muscle that is part of a female reproductive system .
the entrance to the inguinal canal .
the anterior talofibular ligament is a ligament in the ankle .
the posterior talofibular ligament ,  runs almost horizontally from the depression at the medial and back part of the fibular malleolus  ( lateral malleolus )  to a prominent tubercle on the posterior surface of the talus immediately lateral to the groove for the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus .
fluid contained within the notochordal canal
a specialized organ that is linked to the gut in beetles and host to a symbiotic yeast .
the auditory sensory organ of lizards ,  amphibians ,  and birds ,  which is homologous to the corti in mammals .
a tube leading from the external naris to the nasal cavity .
nucleus of the medial ventral tegmental area ,  originally identified in the rat but also in cat ,  monkey and human ,  comprising an average of 7% volume of the vta across the different species ,  with the largest being present in the cat .
nucleus identified in the medial ventral tegmental area that borders the red nucleus and superior cerebellar peduncle dorsally ,  the medial lemniscus laterally ,  the subtantia nigra pars compacta and paranigral nucleus ventrally and the rostral linear nucleus and interfascicular nucleus medially .
the basal portion  ( further from lumen )  of an intestinal crypt .
the lateral parts of an intestinal crypt ,  continuous distally with the base and proximally with the intestinal villus epithelium .
a base of crypt of lieberkuhn that is part of a large intestine .
a wall of crypt of lieberkuhn that is part of a large intestine .
the basal portion  ( further from lumen )  of a intestinal crypt that is located in the small intestine .
the lateral parts of an intestinal crypt that is located in the small intestine ,  continuous distally with the base and proximally with the intestinal villus epithelium .
a zone of the adrenal cortex located between the zona glomerulosa and the zona fasciculata .
endochondral element that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with a single pharyngeal arch in the pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
a basibranchial element that is cartilage .
a metaphysis that is part of a ulna .
a metaphysis that is part of a metaphysis .
a metaphysis that is part of a tibia .
a metaphysis that is part of a radius bone .
a diaphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone .
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
one of two openings in the uterine cervix .
opening of uterine cervix into the body of the uterus .
opening of uterine cervix into the vagina .
the cavity formed by the walls of the cervix .
a nonampullary end of the superior or posterior semicircular ducts .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
a fold of skin of the upper eyelid that partially covers the inner corner of the eye .
a plate of bone from the maxilla that that projects upward ,  medialward ,  and backward ,  by the side of the nose ,  forming part of its lateral boundary [ wp , modified ]  .
great vessels is a term used to refer collectively to the large vessels that bring blood to and from the heart .
a organ cavity that is part of a uterus .
line across midline connecting a left and right nipples .
a nipple that is in_the_left_side_of a body proper .
a nipple that is in_the_right_side_of a body proper .
a diaphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone .
a zone of skin that is part of a palmar / plantar part of autopod .
a zone of skin that is part of a palmar part of manus .
a zone of skin that is part of a skin of pes .
the term nigrostriatal fibers refers to a dopaminergic fiber pathway connecting the substantia nigra with the striatum .
most superficial of 3 cytoarchitecturally defined layers of the piriform cortex ,  characterized by few neuronal cell bodies .
middle of three cytoarchitecturally defined layers of the piriform cortex characterized by a compact layer of cell bodies .
deepest of 3 cytoarchitecturally defined layers of the piriform cortex characterized by a moderately high density of pyramidal cells and large numbers of basal dendrites descending from pyramidal cells in layer 2 .
an elongated nucleus consisting largely of multipolar spiny cells lying deep to the piriform cortex .
regional part of the inferior olivary complex
a group of cortical areas related by direct or indirect connectivity to the striate area 17 and functionally involved primarily in vision .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the telencephalon .
a layer of fibrous and elastic fibers ,  taking the place of the submucosa in the larynx .
embryoid bodies  ( ebs )  are three - dimensional aggregates of pluripotent stem cells .
any of the intrinsic muscles of the manus  ( hand ) 
any of the muscles of the thenar eminence ,  a raised fleshy area on the palm of the hand near the base of the thumb .
any of three muscles of the palm that control the motion of the little finger .
any of the intrinsic muscles of the pes  ( foot ) 
the adductor hallucis  ( adductor obliquus hallucis )  arises by two headsboblique and transverse and is responsible for adducting the big toe .
the flexor digitorum brevis lies in the middle of the sole of the foot ,  immediately above the central part of the plantar aponeurosis ,  with which it is firmly united .
a patch of hair growing in the opposite direction of the rest of the hair .
a collection of hairs that is part of a craniocervical region .
the entrance of the larynx is a triangular opening ,  narrow in front ,  wide behind ,  and sloping obliquely downward and backward .
either of the the top and bottom portions of the vertebral bodies that interface with the vertebral discs .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the simple cuboidal epithelium lining the lumen of kidney collecting ducts .
a papilla that contain taste buds ,  including the fungiform ,  foliate ,  and circumvallate papillae .
a muscular coat that is part of a ileum .
a sweat gland that is part of the skin of the palmar part of the manus or plantar part of the pes
sweat that is produced by the glands on the palmar and plantar surfaces .
sweat that is produced by the glands of the axilla .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the uterus
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
encapsulated adipose tissue located between the scapulae .
a short projection from the base of the manubrium of the malleus ,  attached firmly to the drum membrane .
muscle that is part of the respiratory system .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a sinusoid .
a sinusoidal space that is part of a hepatic sinusoid .
any member of the network of tubes that return blood from the renal tissues to the systemic circulation .
a part of the body present only in a specific gender .
a part of the body present only in males .
a part of the body present only in females .
a larval stage of that is the immature stage of some invertebrates that undergoe gradual metamorphosis  ( hemimetabolism )  before reaching its adult stage .
the free - swimming first stage of the larva of certain crustaceans ,  having an unsegmented body with three pairs of appendages and a single median eye .
a process projecting backward and downward from the acromion of the scapula of some mammals .
on the dorsal border of the wing of the ilium  ,  at it's junction with the shaft is a cut away .
either of two notches on the dorsal border of the hip bone on each side that when closed off by ligaments form the corresponding sciatic foramina .
below the ischial spine is a smaller notch ,  the lesser sciatic notch ;  it is smooth ,  coated in the recent state with cartilage ,  the surface of which presents two or three ridges corresponding to the subdivisions of the tendon of the obturator internus ,  which winds over it .
is part of the pelvis on the edge of the wing of the ilium .
the superior pubic ramus is a part of the pubic bone which forms a portion of the obturator foramen .
the inferior pubic ramus is thin and flattened .
the ischiopubic ramus is a compound structure consisting of the following two structures: from the pubis ,  the inferior pubic ramus from the ischium ,  the inferior ramus of the ischium it serves as part of the origin for the obturator internus muscle .
the superior ramus of the ischium  ( descending ramus )  projects downward and backward from the body and presents for examination three surfaces: external ,  internal ,  and posterior .
the inferior ramus of the ischium  ( ascending ramus )  is the thin ,  flattened part of the ischium ,  which ascends from the superior ramus ,  and joins the inferior ramus of the pubisbthe junction being indicated in the adult by a raised line .
the acetabular fossa is the roughened depression in the centre of the acetabulum ,  surrounded by the lunate acetabular surface and the acetabular notch .
the acetabulum presents below a deep notch ,  the acetabular notch ,  which is continuous with a circular non - articular depression ,  the acetabular fossa ,  at the bottom of the cavity: this depression is perforated by numerous apertures ,  and lodges a mass of fat .
a collection of feathers arranged in a concave pattern surrounding the eyes in some birds ,  particularly owls .
a collection of feathers found on the heads of some owls .
a neural nucleus of the pretectal area  ( between dorsal thalamus and optic tectum )  that receives afferents primarily from the retina and the optic tectum and are involved in modulating motor behavior in response to visual input .
a taste bud that is located on the tongue ,  situated on a gustatory papilla .
a gustatory epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a gustatory epithelium that is part of a roof of mouth .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the peritoneal cavity .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
the extraperitoneal space is the portion of the abdomen and pelvis which does not lie within peritoneum .
a bulbospongiosus muscle that is part of a female reproductive system .
one of two bilaterally symmetrical holes  ( fenestrae )  in the temporal bone .
a temporal fenestra in the upper part of the temporal bone .
an infratemporal fenestra ,  also called the lateral temporal fenestra is an opening in the skull behind the orbit in some animals .
a cnida that is glutinous and is capable of sticking to prey .
any of the parasympathetic ganglia of the cardiac plexus between the arch of the aorta and the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the kidney
an antorbital fenestra is an opening in the skull ,  in front of the eye sockets .
fissure between cerebellar hemispheric lobules viibi and viibii .
the monticulus of the cerebellum is divided by the primary fissure  ( or preclival fissure )  into an anterior ,  raised part ,  the culmen or summit ,  and a posterior sloped part ,  the clivus ;  the quadrangular lobule is similarly divided .
fissure between cerebellar lobules i and ii .
a duct in ammocetes  ( larval lamprey )  that is reputed to connect the endostylar lumen to the pharyngeal lumen .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs and rib joints in an organism .
an appendage formed by the fusion of the nose and upper lip .
a developing feather
an area of skin adjacent to the female external genitals of various lower primates that undergo marked alteration in turgidity and often in color during estrus .
an area of hardened ,  leathery skin on either side of the base of the tail on the rump .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 3 .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal inter - phalangeal joint that is part of the 3rd digit .
a distal inter - phalangeal joint that is part of the 3rd pedal digit .
a distal inter - phalangeal joint that is part of the 3rd manual digit .
a short wide fibrous structure that attaches proximally to the navicular  ( distal sesamoid )  and distally to the palmar margin of the flexor surface of the distal phalanx
a muscular sheet of the omasum wall consisting of two lateral layers and an intermediate layer of smooth muscle covered with non - glandular stratified squamous epithelium
a division of oculomotor nuclear complex that exists in organisms with electric organs which is responsible for eye movements .
a division of oculomotor nuclear complex that exists in organisms with electric organs which has axons terminating in the electric organs .
portion of internal capsule lying between the lenticular nucleus and the head of the caudate nucleus .
portion of internal capsule lying between the globus pallidus and the thalamus  ( nolte ,  the human brain ,  6th ed . ,  2009 ,  pg 409 ,  modified by mm ) 
thin band of fibers separating the claustrum from the insular cortex
the lenticular fasciculus is a tract connecting the globus pallidus to the thalamic fasciculus .
medullary laminae of thalamus are layers of myelinated fibres that appear on cross sections of the thalamus .
a medullary lamina that separates ventral and lateral thalamus from the subthalamus and thalamic reticular nucleus .
is located ventral to the basal nucleus and has three subdivisions: the periamygdaloid cortex ,  the medial division ,  and the sulcal division .
a subdivision of the central canal of the spinal cord along its anterior - posterior axis .
part of fornix extending from the body that curves ventrally rostral to the crossing of the anterior commissure ending in the septal nuclei
the white laminae of cerebellum is subdivision of the cerebellar cortex comprised of myelinated axons lying deep to the granule cell layer of the cerebellar cortex .
part of spinal cord central canal contained in the thoracic spinal cord .
part of central canal contained within the cervical spinal cord .
part of central canal lying within the lumbar spinal cord .
a superficial feature of the human frontal lobe ;  it is located at the rostral margin of the orbital surface of the lobe  ( ono - 90 )  .
part of spinal cord central canal contained in the sacral spinal cord .
ca1 part of stratum pyramidale hippocampi
part of pyramidal cell layer in area ca2 ,  lying superficial to the ca2 stratum oriens ,  and deep to the stratum radiatum of ca2 ,  continuous with the pyramidal cell layers of ca1 and ca3
a layer of hippocampal field that is part of a hippocampus pyramidal layer and is part of a ca3 field of hippocampus .
part of stratum oriens lying in area ca2 deep to the ca2 pyramidal cell layer and continuous with stratum oriens of area ca2 and bounded by the dentate gyrus hilus [ modified from nifstd by cjm ]  .
part of stratum oriens lying in area ca1 ,  superficial to the alveus of ca1 and deep to the pyramidal cell layer of ca1 .
part of stratum oriens lying in area ca3 deep to the ca3 pyramidal cell layer and continuous with stratum oriens of area ca2 and bounded by the dentate gyrus hilus .
part of stratum radiatum lying in area ca1 ,  superficial to the ca1 pyramidal cell layer and deep to the ca1 stratum lucidum - moleculare ,  continuous with the stratum radiatum of ca2 and bounded by the subiculum .
part of stratum radiatum in area ca2 ,  lying superficial to the pyramidal cell layer and deep to ca2 stratum lacunosum - moleculare ,  continuous with the stratum radiatum of ca1 and ca3 .
part of stratum radiatum in area ca3 ,  lying superficial to the stratum lucidum and deep to ca3 stratum lacunosum - moleculare .
part of stratum lacunosum - moleculare lying in area ca1 ,  superficial to ca1 stratum radiatum and bounded by the pial surface ,  continuous with stratum lacunosum - moleculare of ca2 and the subiculum stratum moleculare
part of stratum lacunosum - moleculare lying in area ca2 ,  superficial to the ca2 stratum radiatum ,  that is continuous with the stratum lacunosum - moleculare in areas ca3 and ca1
part of stratum lacunosum - moleculare in area ca3 .
a layer of hippocampal field that is part of a ca3 field of hippocampus and is part of a hippocampus stratum lucidum .
a subdivision of a layer of the hippocampus  ( e .g .
part of dorsal tegmental nucleus characterized by round ,  small cells that are lightly stained in nissl preparations .
cytoarchitectural part of the dorsal tegmental nucleus based on cell size .
ca1 portion of the alveus
part of alveus lying within hippocampal sector ca3
the ventral portion of the dorsal striatum ,  linking the caudate nucleus and the putamen anteriorly  ( adapted from wikipedia ) 
a spinal cord lateral horn that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a dorsal horn of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a ventral horn of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
substantia gelatinosa of thoracic spinal cord posterior horn
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a white matter of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a nerve root that is part of a accessory xi nerve .
a spinal cord lateral horn that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a dorsal horn of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a ventral horn of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a substantia gelatinosa that is part of a cervical spinal cord dorsal horn .
the part of the gray commissure in the spinal central gray posterior to the central canal of the spinal cord
a substantia gelatinosa that is part of a lumbar spinal cord dorsal horn .
a ventral root of spinal cord that overlaps a cervical spinal cord .
a dorsal root of spinal cord that overlaps a cervical spinal cord .
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a white matter of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a dorsal horn of spinal cord that is part of a lumbar spinal cord .
a sulcus of brain that is part of a frontal cortex .
a gyrus that is part of a occipital lobe .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a terminal nerve .
a phylogenetic subdivision of the cerebellum ,  the oldest part ,  which regulates balance and eye movements .
a phylogenetic subdivision of the cerebellum ,  the intermediate part ,  which regulates body and limb movements .
the part of the cerebellar cortex that receives input from the cerebral cortex via axons from the pontine relay nuclei .
a nucleus present in the ventral tegmentum of squalomorph sharks .
a nucleus present in the ventral tegmentum of skates .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a anterior lobe of cerebellum and is part of a cerebellar hemisphere .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a cerebellar hemisphere and is part of a posterior lobe of cerebellum .
a white matter that is part of a medulla oblongata .
a nerve cell nucleus situated in the dorsal portion of the intermediate hypothalamic region .
the nucleus preopticus  ( npo )  of the hypothalamus of common carp ,  is a homolog of the paraventricular nucleus of mammals .
a small nucleus at the base of the hypothalamus ,  adjacent to the arcuate nucleus .
a distal interphalangeal joint that is part of a digit 2 .
a distal interphalangeal joint that is part of a digit 4 .
a distal interphalangeal joint that is part of a digit 5 .
a spirally arranged cluster of teeth
a tooth whorl located at or near the mandibular symphysis .
a tooth whorl found in extinct holocephalids ,  in which the teeth in the center of the spiral are smallest and oldest ,  probably occupying the entire mandibular arch .
the pterygoid plexus is a venous plexus of considerable size ,  and is situated between the temporalis muscle and lateral pterygoid muscle ,  and partly between the two pterygoid muscles .
the angular vein formed by the junction of the frontal vein and supraorbital vein ,  runs obliquely downward ,  on the side of the root of the nose ,  to the level of the lower margin of the orbit ,  where it becomes the anterior facial vein .
any of three grooves in the temporal lobe including the inferior ,  middle ,  and superior temporal sulci .
a groove or cleft that divides the outer surface of the temporal lobe running in the same direction but at a lower level to the superior temporal sulcus .
the left gastric vein  ( or coronary vein )  carries blood low in oxygen ,  tributaries derived from both surfaces of the stomach ;  it runs from right to left along the lesser curvature of the stomach ,  between the two layers of the lesser omentum ,  to the esophageal opening of the stomach ,  where it receives some esophageal veins .
the right gastric vein ,  also known as the pyloric vein ,  drains blood from the lesser curvature of the stomach into the hepatic portal vein .
the superficial epigastric vein is a vein which travels with the superficial epigastric artery .
the posterior auricular artery is a small artery and arises from the external carotid artery ,  above the digastric muscle and stylohyoid muscle ,  opposite the apex of the styloid process .
the deep auricular artery often arises in common with the anterior tympanic artery .
the anterior choroidal artery originates from the internal carotid artery ,  though it also rarely arises from the middle cerebral artery .
a venous system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a vascular system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a epithelium that is part of a frontonasal prominence .
a unilaminar epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a anal region .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pleuroperitoneal canal .
a epithelium that is part of a median lingual swelling .
a paired plastron element that is in the anterior part of the plastron ,  anterior to the hypoplastron ,  posterior to the epiplastron and adjacent to the median entoplastron .
one of a series of plates on each side of the carapace ,  forming two rows between the peripheral plates and the median neural plates .
a primordium that gives rise to a carapace .
a longitidunial ridge on the lateral aspect of the flank that appears in the late pharyngula stage of chelonians .
a mesenchyme that is part of a carapacial ridge .
a epithelium that is part of a carapacial ridge .
a duct that is located between lobules ,  within the thin connective tissue septa that separate lobules .
the secretory unit of a mucous gland .
a duct that is located within a lobule ,  with no more connective tissue intervening between ducts and secretory units  ( i .e . ,  acini or tubules )  than between adjacent secretory units .
a duct that is located between lobes ,  within conspicuous ,  thick connective tissue septa that separate lobes .
a small duct which drains individual secretory units .
a intercalated duct that is part of a pancreas .
the tiny tubules with a very thin epithelial layer in the salivary glands running from the salivary acini into the striated duct .
gland duct which connects an intercalated duct to an interlobular duct in a salivary gland .
a circular structural unit of bone tissue .
haversian canals are a series of tubes around narrow channels formed by lamellae .
an anatomical structure consisting of multiple cell cluster organs ,  that has a largely bona - fide boundary and that does not contain portions of tissue .
a large expansion of the lateral wall of the telencephalon ,  located in the pallium .
one of two types of cerebral cortex defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture and fetal development .
part of the allocortex defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture .
agranular cortical structures located next to the allocortex .
subdivision of pallium that is located is the medial position in vertebrates with an evaginated brain and in the distal position in vertebrates with an everted brain .
subdivision of pallium that is located dorsally .
subdivision of pallium that is located laterally .
a nucleus located in the dorsal pallium that is present in sharks ,  skates and rays and extends at some levels to the midline . .
most superficial of the areas of the pallium in the enlarged evaginated telencephalon of hagfishes .
area directly deep to the p1 area of pallium in hagfishes .
area directly deep to the p2 area of pallium in hagfishes .
area directly deep to the p3 area of pallium in hagfishes .
most deep of the areas of the pallium in the enlarged evaginated telencephalon of hagfishes .
a nuclear complex in the avian telecephalon dorsal to the dvr .
the major telecephalic thalamorecipient zone of the tectofugal visual system in aves .
the gustatory nucleus is the enlarged rostral portion of the solitary nucleus ,  which receives taste afferents from the glossopharyngeal nerve and the intermediate nerve  (  carpenter - 1983  )  .
brainstem tract formed by the central processes of first - order ,  trigeminal ganglion neurons that extends from the caudal medulla to the midpons .
an element formed from the fusion of metapodium bones 2 ,  3 and 4  ( i .e .
an element formed from the fusion of metapodium bones 2 ,  3 and 4 in the pedal autopod .
anatomical line that delineates a furrow or depression in an organ or tissue .
the domain of the diaphragm that is located dorsally and attaches to the vertebrae and surrounds the esophagus and aorta .
a crus of diaphragm that is in_the_right_side_of a diaphragm .
a crus of diaphragm that is in_the_left_side_of a diaphragm .
a blood vessel that drains from from an upper eyelid .
a blood vessel that drains from from an eyelid .
an artery that supplies blood to an eyelid .
the lateral palpebral arteries are small arteries which supply the eyelid .
the medial palpebral arteries  ( internal palpebral arteries )  are arteries of the head .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive forebrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive midbrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive spinal cord
a group of cells that may not be contained within macroscopic anatomical boundaries ,  e .g . ,  a9 dopaminergic cell group ;  massa intercalata of the amygdala  ( cumbo ) 
a reticuloendothelial system that is part of a liver .
attached to the posterior border of the hard palate is a thin ,  firm fibrous lamella called the palatine aponeurosis ,  which supports the muscles and gives strength to the soft palate .
any muscle organ that is part of a cloaca .
a very prominent superficial muscle and with its almost transverse course it forms the boundary between the abdomen and the tail .
a long narrow muscle arising from the underside of feather bulge of the lateral rectrices ,  inserting near the midline of the cloacal tubercle  -  phallus .
extraembryonic part of the vein passing through the umbilical cord to the fetus and returning the purified and nutrient blood from the placenta .
a extraembryonic umbilical vein that is in_the_left_side_of a multicellular organism .
a extraembryonic umbilical vein that is in_the_right_side_of a multicellular organism .
the lingual septum consists of a vertical layer of fibrous tissue ,  extending throughout the entire length of the median plane of the tongue ,  though not quite reaching the dorsum .
any collection of muscles that is part of the forelimb stylopod region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic complex .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral complex .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral appendage  ( forelimb or pectoral fin )  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic appendage  ( hindlimb or pelvic fin )  .
a ring of fibrous tissue surrounding the optic nerve at its entrance at the apex of the orbit .
a jaw muscle that arises from trunk somites and is innervated by spinal nerves .
the most anterior of the trapezius muscles ,  found in felids ,  it is also the largest .
acromiotrapezius is the middle trapezius muscle .
spinotrapezius ,  also called thoracic trapezius ,  is the most posterior of the three trapezius muscles .
any of the four curved lines on the external surface of the occipital bone that serves as an attachment site for a muscle .
of the nuchal lines ,  the upper ,  often faintly marked ,  is named the highest nuchal line ,  but is sometimes referred to as the mempin line ,  and to it the galea aponeurotica is attached .
of the nuchal lines ,  the one below the highest nuchal line is the superior nuchal line .
of the nuchal lines ,  the one that runs from the external occipital protuberance a ridge or crest is the median nuchal line ,  often faintly marked ,  descends to the foramen magnum ,  and affords attachment to the ligamentum nuchae .
of the nuchal lines ,  the one running from the middle of the median line is the inferior nuchal line .
the most superficial of pectoral muscles ,  found in some mammals
the most deep of pectoral muscles ,  found in some mammals
a muscle that is important to the body support of limbed reptiles ,  underlies the front part of the pectoral muscle ,  arises from the coracoid ,  and passes to the underpart of the humerus
a dorsal muscle of lower tetrapods .
the vastus intermedius  ( cruraeus )  arises from the front and lateral surfaces of the body of the femur in its upper two - thirds ,  sitting under rectus femoris and from the lower part of the lateral intermuscular septum .
a placental membrane that consists of three trophoblast cell layers .
a placental membrane that consists of a single layer of syncytiotrophoblast at term .
chorda tendinea which is attached to the leaflet of mitral valve and is continuous with the endocardium of papillary muscle of left ventricle .
chorda tendinea which is attached to the leaflet of tricuspid valve and is continuous with the endocardium of papillary muscle of right ventricle .
leaflet of mitral valve which is attached to the commissural chorda tendinea of left ventricle .
leaflet of mitral valve which is attached to the anterior head of the posterior papillary muscle of left ventricle through the chorda tendinea of the left ventricle .
leaflet of mitral valve which is attached to the posterior head of the lateral papillary muscle of left ventricle through the chorda tendinea of the left ventricle .
the larval form of any of the taenia tapeworms .
a crustacean larval stage characterised by the use of the thoracic appendages for swimming .
a crustacean larval stage characterised by the use of abdominal appendages  ( pleopods )  for propulsion .
the crustacean post - larval stage of a crab
a development stage of copepods which follows the nauplius stage .
a developmental stage in a hermit crab that has completed the swimming larval stages .
a larval stage of a trochozoan in which the organism is in free - swimming planktonic form with several bands of cilia [ wp , modified ]  .
the characteristic larval stage of the gastropod ,  bivalve and scaphopod taxonomic classes .
the larval stage of members of the order lepidoptera .
the orbital fissure that is situated inferiorly between the greater wing of the sphenoid bone and the maxilla
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx .
a muscle in amphibians that connects originates in the ilium and inserts in the tibia .
a cerebellar hemisphere that is in_the_left_side_of a cerebellum .
a cerebellar hemisphere that is in_the_right_side_of a cerebellum .
white matter that is part of a brainstem  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that consists of skeletal muscle tissue ensheathed in epimysium ,  that develops from myotome and that is innervated by some somatic motor neuron .
a muscle structure of invertebrates whose origin and insertion sites are in basal side of the epidermis or structures derived from it .
a somatic muscle that consists of one or more somatic muscle myotubes and any associated extracellular structures .
a somatic muscle that consists of one or more obliquely striated muscle cells and any associated extracellular structures .
in those cases in which the interilial region is broadly expanded and the pubis is extremely reduced ,  the anterior margin of the ischium forms an expanded area .
a ligament on the lateral aspect of the human knee ,  anterior to the fibular collateral ligament .
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
a vein receiving blood from adjacent bronchopulmonary segments ;  it emerges from the inferior margin of a segment to become a tributary of a branch of a pulmonary vein .
one of the primary blood vessel sprouts that originate from the dorsal aorta and posterior cardinal vein and align dorsoventrally at the myotomal boundaries between somites .
junction between the cerebellum and the pons .
the pallial region located next to the pallium - subpallium boundary .
a barrier between the blood or haemolymphatic fluid and the testes .
the bend in the facial nerve at the lateral end of the internal acoustic meatus .
on of a pair of medial protrusions of the intra - pharyngeal ostium  ( an oval opening within the soft palate that connects the oral and nasal portions of the pharynx )  ,  used in vocalization in koalas .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a pouch .
the space between a blood vessel and the pia mater .
a zone of skin adjacent to a nail or claw .
developing superficial cortical layer located just under the pia matter ,  develops from the marginal layer of the neural tube and becomes cortical layer i
the part of the neocortex hich mainly consists of parts of cingulate ,  parahippocampal and temporopolar cortice .
the major preaxial endrochondral skeletal element in the anterior zeugopod .
a radius - ulna bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
major postaxial endrochondral skeletal element in the anterior zeugopod .
the major preaxial endochondral element in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a vertebral endochondral element in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
a vertebral endochondral element in the thoracic region of the vertebral column .
a lumbar vertebra bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a vertebra endochondral element that is part of the sacral region of the vertebral column .
a tibiotarsus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a tarsometatarsus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
the major postaxial endochondral element in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a calcaneum bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a supraoccipital bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a stapes bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a incus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a malleus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a rib bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a forelimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a hindlimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 1 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 2 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 3 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 4 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 5 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 1 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 2 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 3 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 4 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 5 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 1 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 2 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 3 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 4 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 5 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 1 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 2 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 3 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 4 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 5 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a basioccipital bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a carpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a tarsus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a exoccipital bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a femur bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a humerus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a iliac bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pubic bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a ischial bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a scapula bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a alisphenoid bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a orbitosphenoid bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a sphenoid bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a limb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a delimited region of osteoblasts representing the early stages of bone formation .
a endochondral element that is part of a autopod region .
a autopod endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
endochondral element located between the proximal and distal rows of carpals or tarsals and thus representing the central carpals or tarsals [ phenoscape ]  .
a distal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a forelimb .
a distal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a centrale endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a forelimb .
a proximal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a hindlimb .
a proximal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal carpal bone 1 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal carpal bone 1 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal carpal bone 2 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal carpal bone 2 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal carpal bone 3 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal carpal bone 3 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal carpal bone 4 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal carpal bone 4 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal carpal bone 5 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal carpal bone 5 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a hindlimb .
a distal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal tarsal bone 1 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal bone 1 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal tarsal bone 2 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal bone 2 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal tarsal bone 3 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal bone 3 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal tarsal bone 4 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal bone 4 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal tarsal bone 5 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal bone 5 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
the remnant of the lamina terminalis in the developed brain .
a group of neurons in the cortex of the brain which can be successively penetrated by a probe inserted perpendicularly to the cortical surface ,  and which have nearly identical receptive fields .
the anterior organ of a tapeworm used for attachment to the host intestine .
a outer canthus that is in_the_right_side_of a head .
a outer canthus that is in_the_left_side_of a head .
an anatomical line of the face that connects the two outer  ( lateral )  canthi of the eye .
internodal tract which consists of the atrial and atrial septal branches .
visceral intrapericardial fat contiguous with the myocardial surface .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a prostate gland .
the tapering portion of the gall bladder that narrows to form the neck and cystic duct .
a large fat pad that is located at the base of the abdominal wall ,  in the falciform ligament of the liver .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the mesentery
a strand of hair that is part of a autopod region .
a strand of hair that is part of a pes .
a strand of hair that is part of a manus .
a strand of hair that is part of a pinna .
a strand of hair that is part of a tail .
a strand of hair that is part of a ventrum .
a strand of hair that is part of a dorsum .
a duct that is part of a harderian gland .
a gland that is typically found in or near the orbital region ,  in or around either the medial or lateral canthi ,  and is typically associated with secretions onto the eyeball or associated ducts .
a gland that is located in the ocular region ,  nearer the inner canthi .
a gland that is located in or around the ocular region ,  nearer the outer canthi .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a conjunctiva .
the two terminal branches of the ophthalmic artery in humans are the dorsal nasal artery and the supratrochlear artery
the middle temporal artery occasionally gives off a zygomatico - orbital branch ,  which runs along the upper border of the zygomatic arch ,  between the two layers of the temporal fascia ,  to the lateral angle of the orbit .
the supraorbital artery is an artery of the head .
the inferior branch of the oculomotor nerve or the inferior division ,  the larger ,  divides into three branches .
the superior branch of the oculomotor nerve or the superior division ,  the smaller ,  passes medialward over the optic nerve .
an eye consisting of multiple light - sensing organs
light reflecting layer found in a variety of different types of eye .
an eye that consists of a cluster of three or four median eyes that form a single structural unit but are separated from one another by pigment layers
a corkscrew - like artery in premenstrual or progestational endometrium ;  uterine spiral arteries play a vital role in supplying nutrients to the placenta and fetus ,  and are thus remodeled into highly dilated inelastic vessels by the action of invading trophoblast  ( physiological change ) 
a blood vessel that is part of a endometrium .
the helicine branches of uterine artery  ( or helicine arterioles ,  or spiral arteries )  are small arteries which temporarily supply the endometrium of the uterus during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle .
the helicine arteries of penis are arteries in the penis .
either the helicine artery of the penis or the helicine artery of the uterus
a region of somite adjacent to presomitic mesoderm .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
the neck of talus is directed forward and medialward ,  and comprises the constricted portion of the bone between the body and the oval head .
the slightly constricted part of a tooth ,  between the crown and the root .
the capillary bed that initially surrounds the relative avascular brain and spinal cord ;  the perineural vascular plexus  ( pnvp )  is the precursor to the blood brain barrier formed by angioblasts which migrate away from somites and is recruited to surround the neural tube in response to vegf ;  vascularization of the brain and spinal cord occurs via angiogenesis as sprouting vessels from the pnvp invade the neuroepithelium and grow inward toward the ventricular lumen [ mp ]  .
a circulatory organ that is reponsible for pumping lymph throughout the body .
an anatomical group whose component structures share a common function .
a non - connected functional system that is composed primarily of a gland .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
typical barnacles ,  common name of the sedentary crustacean marine animals constituting the subclass cirripedia ,  attach to the substrate by means of an exceedingly adhesive cement ,  produced by a cement gland ,  and secrete a shell ,  or carapace ,  of calcareous  ( limestone )  plates ,  around themselves .
a ligament that is part of a diaphragm .
the median arcuate ligament is a ligament under the diaphragm that connects the right and left crura of diaphragm .
the middle meatus is a nasal opening or canal situated between the middle and inferior conchae ,  and extends from the anterior to the posterior end of the latter .
the inferior meatus ,  the largest of the three meatuses of the nose ,  is the space between the inferior concha and the floor of the nasal cavity .
the ventral nasal meatus is found between the ventral nasal concha and the dorsal surface of the hard palate .it connects the nasal vestibule with the nasopharynx .
the dosal nasal meatus is a narrow passage bounded dorsally by the roof of the nasal cavity and ventrally by the dorsal concha .
a anatomical conduit that is part of a ventricular septum intermedium .
a anatomical conduit that is part of a atrial septum intermedium .
a vessel down which passes a wave of muscular contraction ,  that forces the flow of haemolymphatic fluid .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a circulatory organ that is not responsible for primary circulation .
the feeding organ ,  a neuro - muscular pump in the head of the animal ,  used to ingest food ,  bacteria suspended in liquid ,  filter them out ,  grind them up and transport posteriorly into the instestine .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a dorsal thalamus .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a ventral thalamus .
a cluster in the epithalamus that consists of the pineal body and any associated structures ,  such as the parapineal gland or the parietal organ .
the lower third of the vagina .
a spatially segregated cluster of sensory cells in the nasal cavity .
a small island of olfactory neuroepithelium lying bilaterally at the ventral base of the nasal septum near the entrance of the nasopharynx .
this is the point at which the trachea splits into two  ( left and right )  principal bronchi .
a zone of skin that is part of a digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a hair follicle that is part of a coat of hair .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_left_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_right_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a branch of the descending genicular artery ,  the last branch  ( most distal )  of the femoral ,  the saphenous is also variable .
a mesenchyme that is part of a urethra .
a valve that is part of a ureter .
the segment of either hepatic duct located in the hilum of the liver .
muscle organ located on the dorsal surface of the head innervated by the facial nerve
a thin layer of fibrous tissue capable of stretching and contracting .
a duct that is part of a anterior lingual gland .
a lymph node that is part of a hypodermis .
a fat pad that is part of a pancreas .
a fat pad that is part of a mediastinum .
the splenic lymph nodes  ( or pancreaticolienal )  accompany the lienal  ( splenic )  artery ,  and are situated in relation to the posterior surface and upper border of the pancreas ;  one or two members of this group are found in the gastrolienal ligament .
a lymph node located near the bifurcation of the trachea .
a zone of skin that is part of a axilla .
a zone of skin that is part of a external nose .
a fat pad that is part of a axilla .
a zone of skin that is part of a scrotum .
the hepatic artery proper  ( also proper hepatic artery )  ,  arises from the common hepatic artery and runs alongside the portal vein and the common bile duct to form the portal triad .
a hepatic artery that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic artery that is part of a right lobe of liver .
a zone of skin that is part of a metapodial pad .
hat part of the duodenal wall traversed by the ductus choledochus ,  ductus pancreaticus ,  and ampulla .
the sural nerve  ( short saphenous nerve )  ,  formed by the junction of the medial sural cutaneous with the peroneal anastomotic branch of the lateral sural cutaneous nerve ,  passes downward near the lateral margin of the tendo calcaneus ,  lying close to the small saphenous vein ,  to the interval between the lateral malleolus and the calcaneus .
an area within the corpus callosum ,  a white matter structure within the cleft that separates the left and right cerebral hemispheres in the mammalian brain ,  between the genu  ( anterior region )  and the splenium  ( posterior region )  .
a gyrus that is part of a frontal cortex .
part of corpus callosum comprising the  \ "kneelike \ " anterior bend  ( adapted from nolte ,  the human brain ,  6th ed . ,  2009 pg 664 ) 
the part of the corpus callosum that projects posteriorly and inferiorly from the anteriormost genu .
either the inferior or superior sagittal sinus
the posterior end of the corpus callosum .
a epithelium that is part of a anal canal .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a ejaculatory duct .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a inferior eyelid tarsus .
multilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of more than one layer of cuboidal and columnar cells ,  only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
regular connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts and of intercellular matrix ,  which contains elastic fiber bundles oriented predominantly in definable directions .
a epithelium that is part of a duct of salivary gland .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
a duct that is part of a olfactory gland .
a acinus that is part of a olfactory gland .
the portion of the nasal mucosa that is part of the respiratory system .
any anatomical conduit which is part of the upper respiratory tract
an anatomical chamber that is part of the olfactory apparatus ,  consisting of cavity walls  ( nasal epithelium and mucosal layers )  and the space bounded anteriorly by the nares and posteriorly by the choanae ,  when these structures are present .
a zone of skin that is part of a autopod region .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a digit .
thin layer of cortex lying on the dorsal surface of the corpus callosum .
a epithelium that is part of a lobar bronchus of left lung .
a epithelium that is part of a lobar bronchus of right lung .
a blood vessel that is part of a liver .
a continuation ventrally of the supracallosal gyrus beyond the rostrum of the corpus callosum .
a epithelium that is part of a ear .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a middle ear .
a epithelium that is part of a external ear .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
a lamina propria that is part of a duodenum .
a dental pulp that is part of a incisor tooth .
a dental lamina that is part of a incisor tooth .
a tooth enamel organ that is part of a incisor tooth .
a odontogenic mesenchyme that is part of a incisor tooth .
a upper jaw incisor that is in_the_left_side_of a dentition .
an incisor tooth that protrudes beyond the mouth .
an cuspid tooth that protrudes beyond the mouth .
a upper jaw incisor that protrudes prominently from the mouth as a single median tusk ,  found in narwhals .
a dental pulp that is part of a narwhal tusk .
an anatomical line that connects two successive vertebral pedicles .
a thickening of the surface ectoderm on the ventral side of the embryonic tail which resembles the apical ectodermal ridge of the limb bud .
a lymph node found near the parotid gland .
any of the lymph nodes adjacent to the stomach and duodenum .
a lymph node along the left gastric artery or greater omentum .
lymph nodes of the pancreatic tail and spleen ,  receiving afferents from both organs plus the greater curvature of the stomach ;  they drain to the celiac lymph nodes .
the retropharyngeal lymph nodes ,  from one to three in number ,  lie in the buccopharyngeal fascia ,  behind the upper part of the pharynx and in front of the arch of the atlas ,  being separated ,  however ,  from the latter by the longus capitis .
a lymph node that is part of a head .
any of the lymph nodes that are part of a face .
the mandibular lymph node is a lymph node found near the jaw .
a zone of skin that is part of a heel .
the part of the foot that is the projection of the calcaneus .
any lymph node within the abdominal pelvic region .
the external iliac lymph nodes ,  from eight to ten in number ,  lie along the external iliac vessels .
the internal iliac lymph nodes  ( or hypogastric )  surround the internal iliac artery and its branches  ( the hypogastric vessels )  ,  and receive the lymphatics corresponding to the distribution of the branches of it ,  i . e .  ,  they receive lymphatics from all the pelvic viscera ,  from the deeper parts of the perineum ,  including the membranous and cavernous portions of the urethra ,  and from the buttock and back of the thigh .
the part of the nail plate that extends into the dermis  ( nail matrix ) 
one of the deep inguinal lymph nodes located in or adjacent to the femoral canal ;  sometimes mistaken for a femoral hernia when enlarged .
a lymph node that is located close to the surface .
a lymph node that is located deeper within the organism ,  further from the surface .
the term tonsillar node can be inaccurate or ambiguous
the term tonsillar node can be inaccurate or ambiguous
a parotid lymph node that is located superficially .
a lymph node that is medial to the gluteus superficialis m . ,  caudal to gluteus medius m . and sciatic nerve lymph node
one of the lymph nodes that form a chain around the ileocolic artery .
the paraaortic lymph nodes  ( also known as para - aortic ,  periaortic ,  and peri - aortic )  are a group of lymph nodes that lie in front of the lumbar vertebral bodies near the aorta .
the mastoid lymph nodes  ( retroauricular lymph nodes ,  posterior auricular glands )  ,  usually two in number ,  are situated on the mastoid insertion of the sternocleidomastoideus ,  beneath the auricularis posterior .
the deep parotid lymph nodes are lymph nodes found below the parotid gland .
the preauricular deep parotid lymph nodes  ( anterior auricular glands or preauricular glands )  ,  from one to three in number ,  lie immediately in front of the tragus .
the infra - auricular deep parotid lymph nodes are a group of lymph nodes found underneath the ear .
the submental lymph nodes  ( or suprahyoid )  are situated between the anterior bellies of the digastrici .
a lymph node that is part of a hindlimb .
a lymph node that is part of a forelimb .
the infrapatellar fat pad ,  also known as hoffa's fat pad ,  is a cylindrical piece of fat that is situated under and behind the patella bone within the knee .
a lymph node that located_in a colon .
the thoracic wall  ( or chest wall )  is the boundary of the thoracic cavity .
a vertebral arch joint that is part of a cervical region of vertebral column .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
the circumference of the base of the glans forms a rounded projecting border ,  the corona of the glans penis ,  overhanging a deep retroglandular sulcus ,  behind which is the neck of the penis .
a breast that is part of a male organism .
subdivision of thorax which is anterior to the plane of the posterior boundary of the middle mediastinum .
the intersection of the frontal and two nasal bones of the human skull .
a compact bone tissue that is part of a bone tissue of long bone .
a compact bone tissue that is part of a diaphysis .
a epiphyseal plate that is part of a radius bone .
the palmar branch of the median nerve is a branch of the median nerve which arises at the lower part of the forearm and innervates skin of proximal central palm and thenar eminence .
subdivision of thorax which includes all structures from the skin to the costal pleura .
a zone of the frontal bone that connects the supraorbital rirdges .
the line of junction between the horizontal parts of the palatine bones that extends from both sides of the skull to form the posterior part of the hard palate .
a strand of hair that is part of a head .
a strand of hair that is part of a trunk .
a hole in the diaphragm through which the esophagus passes
the central point on the posterior surface of the lens .
a zone of skin in the periorbital region of the face .
the midline prominence of the nose ,  extending from the nasal root to the tip .
on the pinna ,  a curved prominence of cartilage ,  parallel with and in front of the helix ,  is called the antihelix ,  also known as the anthelix ;  this divides above into two crura ,  the crura antihelicis ,  between which is a triangular depression ,  the fossa triangularis .
the antitragus is a feature of human ear anatomy .
a zone of skin that is part of a forehead .
a incisor tooth that is part of a primary dentition .
the zygomatic process of the maxilla  ( malar process )  is a rough triangular eminence ,  situated at the angle of separation of the anterior ,  zygomatic ,  and orbital surfaces .
a stroma that is part of a liver .
a collagenous capsule covering the external surface of the liver .
a lymph node that is part of a bronchus .
a soft ,  thin film of food debris ,  mucin ,  and dead epithelial cells deposited on the teeth ,  providing the medium for the growth of various bacteria .
the vaginal fornix that is behind the cervix .
the vaginal fornix that is front of the cervix .
is the sensory system for the sense of hearing .
skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
a foramen in the sphenoid bone through which the middle meningeal artery ,  middle meningeal vein ,  and the meningeal branch of the mandibular nerve pass .
the palmaris longus is seen as a small tendon between the flexor carpi radialis and the flexor carpi ulnaris ,  although it is not always present .
a epicondyle that is part of a humerus .
the juncture where the intestine empties into the cloaca .
sphincter at the junction of the esophagus and pneumatic duct .
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a fundus of urinary bladder .
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a fundus of stomach .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a fundus of stomach .
a dense fibrous ring surrounding the umbilicus at birth .
an elevation on the wall of the embryonic urogenital sinus where the müllerian ducts enter .
luminal space of the right ventricle of the heart .
a epithelium that is part of a male urethra .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of fundus of stomach .
a anatomical space that is part of a duodenum .
luminal space of the left atrium of the heart .
luminal space of the left ventricle of the heart .
a muscular coat that is part of a prostatic urethra .
a lamina propria that is part of a prostatic urethra .
a anatomical space that is part of a jejunum .
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a jejunum .
a epithelium that is part of a female urethra .
luminal space of the right atrium of the heart .
a muscular coat that is part of a spongiose part of urethra .
frontal lobe is the anterior - most of five lobes of the cerebral hemisphere .
subdivision of telencephalon which is one of a number of subdivisions of each hemisphere separated by both real landmarks  ( sulci and fissures )  and arbitrary boundaries [ fma , modified ]  .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a frontal lobe .
grey matter neocortex region of a lobe of the cerebral hemisphere .
gray matter of the parietal region of the neocortex ,  located in the parietal lobe of gyrencephalic animals .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a parietal lobe .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a temporal lobe .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a occipital lobe .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a limbic lobe .
gray matter of the temporal region of the neocortex ,  located in the temporal lobe in gyrencephalic animals
the external part of the developing pharynx that is made of ectoderm .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is part of gray matter .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is composed of white matter .
mucus produced in the respiratory tract .
any mucus produced by a mucosae of the respiratory system .
a white matter that is part of the midbrain .
a stria of neuraxis that is part of a telencephalon .
the superficial cerebral veins are a group of veins in the head .
the deep cerebral veins are a group of veins in the head .
a blood vessel that is part of a cerebellum .
an roughly circular indentation in a surface .
an acellular membrane in the vestibular labyrinth that is composed of the otoconial layer ,  gelatinous layer ,  and a subcupular meshwork .
an acellular membrane in the inner ear that is part of the statoconial membrane and consists of long branching filaments cross - bridged to one another .
spinal lamina v is a lamina of the spinal cord .
spinal lamina vi is a lamina of the spinal cord .
the nucleus proprius is a layer of the spinal cord adjacent to the substantia gelatinosa .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 1 that develop into the tragus ,  crus of the helix ,  and helix .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 2 that develop into the concha ,  antihelix and antitragus .
a y - shaped fibrocartilage structure that lies in the substance of the muscular ventral pouch of rorqual whales .
a fibrous capsule located between the jaws of rorqual whales that contains a gelatinous substance and papillae bearing mechanorecaptors .
a vibrissa on the lower jaw of rorqual whales that is hypothesized to form part of the lung feeding system .
a body structure consisting of nerves traveling together with arteries ,  veins ,  and / or lymphatics .
fibrous joint connecting the actinopterygian frontal bone to the actinopterygian parietal bone .
the parvocellular reticular nucleus is part of the brain located dorsolateral to the nucleus reticularis pontis caudalis .
the premotor cortex is an area of motor cortex lying within the frontal lobe of the brain .
the supplementary motor area  ( sma )  is a part of the sensorimotor cerebral cortex  ( perirolandic ,  i .e .
lateral component of the periolivary nucleus
the term subparafascicular nucleus refers to a cell group located ventral to the parafascicular nucleus in the thalamus .
small nucleus in the brainstem of human ,  located adjacent and medial to the nucleus prepositus in the dorsal medulla ,  described in several atlases of human brain stem .
the term paratrigeminal nucleus refers to a group of cells located lateral to the spinal trigeminal tract of the medulla and medial to the spinocerebellar tracts at the level of the spinal trigeminal nucleus .
one of two potential parts of the trapezoid nucleus .
the term retroambiguus nucleus refers to a group of neurons in the medulla at the caudal end of the nucleus ambiguus ,  from which the cranial part of the accessory nerve originates  (  crosby - 1962  )  .
a cell group located ventral to the brachium conjunctivum in the general area where the medial and lateral parabrachial nuclei abut ,  shifting to the slightly more lateral position rostrally .
neuron cell bodies located in the more medial portions of the anterior horn at cervical levels c3 - c7 that innervate the diaphragm via the phrenic nerve .
a fascial pouch derived from extraperitoneal connective tissue that contains the kidneys ,  the suprarenal glands ,  the renal vessels and perirenal fat
a scent gland that is part of the skin
a skin gland found in the interdigital region of some mammals
the dorsal region of the optic cup that gives rise to the dorsal part of the retina .
the ventral region of the optic cup that gives rise to the ventral part of the retina .
a digit that is part of a digit 6 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 7 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 8 plus metapodial segment .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 6 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 7 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 8 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 6 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 7 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 8 plus the associated metapodial element .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
the craniopharyngeal canal ,  is an anatomical feature sometimes found in the sphenoid bone opening to the sella turcica .
an ankle joint that passes between the astragalus and calcaneum .
a shallow depression on the lateral wall of the pelvis ,  wherein the ovary lies .
the joint that is formed by the union of the humerus ,  the scapula  ( or shoulder blade )  ,  and the clavicle  ( or collarbone )  .
epithelium lining the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
any muscle tissue of the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
a periosteum that is part of a long bone .
a frenulum of lip that is part of a upper lip .
a frenulum of lip that is part of a lower lip .
the zone of the skin that surrounds a lip and is colored red due to thin epithelium and presence of eleidin
a vermilion that is part of a upper lip .
a vermilion that is part of a lower lip .
area of aorta proximal to the ductus arteriosus .
area of aorta distal to the ductus arteriosus .
area of aorta at the area of insertion to the ductus arteriosus .
a coating of mucus that is produced by the skin and covers all or most of the body of an animal .
a mucous covering produced nocturnally by some fish that is used to envelope the whole animal .
a metaphysis that is part of a fibula .
a medially  ( towards the tongue )  )  raised feature found on crown of a tooth .
a linear flat evelation on a tooth .
triangular ridges facing each other and crossing at transverse angle ,  forming a transverse ridge on posterior teeth .
a synovial joint that connects a vertebral bone 1 and connects a exoccipital bone .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a hemipenal sheath .
a gland within the hemipenial sheath that provides lubrication for the hemipenis .
a holocrine gland that is part of a hemipenis .
a bony structure embedded in skin ,  roughly equivalent to osteoderms .
cloacal gland in female salamanders that secrete into the dorsal walls of the cloaca ,  anterior and  /  or posterior to the spermathecae or near the spermathecal common tube
a keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that is part of a hemipenis .
a small protuberence on the lingual surface of the premaxilla ,  immediately posterior to the teeth .
an anatomical group consisting of a placental caruncle and a placental cotyldeon ,  a placental unit in some mammals such as ruminants .
an oval or round thickening in the uterine mucosa resulting from proliferation of subepithelial connective tissue ,  in the maternal side of the placentome .
a sesamoid element that is part of a tarsal skeleton .
the portion of the teeth ,  occurring on the lingual or palatal aspects ,  that forms a convex protuberance at the cervical third of the anatomic crown .
a ridge that girdles the base of a lower molar tooth
a ridge that girdles the base of a upper molar tooth
a set of teeth in which each tooth that attaches to a vomer .
a section of a pharyngeal arch artery that carries blood away from the spiracle .
a section of a pharyngeal arch artery that drains the spiracle .
the extensor pollicis brevis lies on the medial side of ,  and is closely connected with ,  the abductor pollicis longus .
a spine appendage that is part of a head .
one of the spines ,  probably denticle derivatives ,  occurring singly or in pairs just behind the orbit on the cheek area in some fossil sharks .
a supplemental clasper in holocephali ,  in front of the pelvic fin
one or more pairs of stiff ossified lobes or prongs found in the tip of the intromittent organ of bythitoidei
a gland of uncertain function at the base of the clasper in skates and rays ,  occupying the position of the siphon of other elasmobranchii .
houston's valves  ( or transverse folds of rectum )  are semi - lunar transverse folds of the rectal wall that protrude into the anal canal .
a thin diaphragm located in the posterior fifth of the intestine of some centrolophidae ,  e .g .
a structure with numerous blood vessels  ( retia mirabilia )  in the gas bladder that secretes gases from the blood .
an innervated group of cells in a round capsule at the end of a jelly - filled tube opening to the skin surface of gymnarchidae and mormyridae .
a calcified structure of brain that is part of a pineal body .
a calcified structure of brain that is part of a choroid plexus .
a supplementary intervertebral articulation found in xenarthrans characterized by two sets of zygapophyseal facets in the postdiaphragmatic vertebrae ,  one medial and one lateral to the met apophysis
a paired dural venous sinus at the rim of the foramen magnum .
the primitive marginal sinuses  ( pms )  are embryonic sinuses forming the later superior sagittal sinus .
a circular gap in the iris near the pupil between the layers of the optic cup  ( von szily ,  1902 ) 
branch of spinal nerve that innervates the structures of the vertebral column .
rami communicans  ( plural rami communicantes )  is the term used for a nerve which connects two other nerves .
extension of the long thoracic vein that collects blood from the mammary glands
one of two veins running parallel to their corresponding internal mammary arteries that unite forming one vessel .
a prevertebral muscle that is part of a neck .
the ventral part of the body wall
the dorsal part of the body wall
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a saliva - secreting gland .
a gland lodged in a fossa formed mainly of dermal bones ,  situated wholly in front of the nasal capsules of osteolepiformes .
a gland located at the pre - nasal area being divided anteriorly by the ascendent processes of the intermaxillary bone .
any of the small racemose mucous glands in the mucous membrane lining the cheeks
a bony part of vertebral arch that is part of a cervical vertebral arch .
a bony part of vertebral arch that is part of a sacral vertebra 1 .
a viscus that is part of a abdomen .
internal  ( endosteal )  surface of the base of skull
a raised fleshy area on the palm of the hand near the base of the thumb .
hypothenar refers to a group of three muscles of the palm that control the motion of the little finger .
a ridge of tissue that extends along the midline of the scrotum .
a primary incisor tooth that is part of a lower jaw region .
the ridge between the shoulder blades of a four - legged mammal .
a mesopodial endochondral element that is in the most proximal part of the mesopodial skeleton ,  connected to the zeugopodial skeleton .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
an endochondral element in the distal portion of the mesopodial skeleton ,  between the central mesopodial skeleton and the metapodial skeleton
a distal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
the thinner portion of the muscle of the palatopharyngeal arch ,  originating in the region of the midline where its fibers interdigitate with the contralateral partner ,  then passing posterior to the levator veli palatini muscle to join the longitudinal layer of pharyngeal musculature ;  acts as a sort of sphincter ,  reducing the caliber of the isthmus of fauces at the palatopharyngeal arch .
the intermediate belt surrounding the fovea centralis
the outermost region surrounding the fovea centralis
a region of the fovea centralis that lies in the center of the fovea and contains only cone cells ,  and a cone - shaped zone of müller cells
the superior auricular muscle ,  the largest of the three auriculares muscles ,  is also thin and fan - shaped .
the anterior auricular muscle ,  the smallest of the three auriculares muscles ,  is thin and fan - shaped ,  and its fibers are pale and indistinct .
the posterior auricular muscle consists of two or three fleshy fasciculi ,  which arise from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone by short aponeurotic fibers .
a muscle layer that is part of the rectum
any portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of the rectum
a kidney interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a kidney interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
a renal pelvis that is part of a left ureter .
a renal pelvis that is part of a right ureter .
a renal cortex interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a renal cortex interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
a renal medulla interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a renal medulla interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the ovaries .
encapsulated adipose tissue that is part of a tail .
an elongated snout found in monotremes .
a folded ridge of skin that is part of a scrotum superficial to the dartos muscle
a fenestra or hole which pierces the maxilla anterior to the antorbital fenestra .
a fenestra that is part of a premaxilla .
a cluster of mammary gland lobules .
regional part of telencephalon lying on the basal surface and bounded by the olfactory trigone rostrally ,  the diagonal band medially and caudally and the prepiriform cortex laterally .
any vertebra endochondral element that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
a transverse process that is part of a cervical vertebra
a rib that is attached to a cervical vertebra .
a rib that is attached to a lumbar vertebra .
a transverse process that is part of a lumbar vertebra
a bodily secretion that produced_by a ampullary gland .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower lip .
a zone of skin that is part of a upper lip .
a small ,  triangular ,  flaccid portion of the tympanic membrane ,  or eardrum ,  lying above the malleolar folds ,  attached directly to the petrous bone at the notch of rivinus .
a ligament that is part of a middle ear .
a fold of mucous membrane that runs from the fossa incudus to the incus .
a skeletal ligament that attaches to the malleus .
a malleal ligament that extends from the bony margin of the notch of rivinus to the neck of the malleus .
a malleal ligament that extends from the tempen tympani to the head of the malleus .
a malleal ligament that extends from the anterior tympanic wall to the anterior process of the malleus .
a ring of fibrous tissue that connects the base of the stapes to the oval window of the inner ear .
an organ system subdivision that is the part of the lymphoid system that includes the pulmonary lymphatic vessels .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a lung .
a system consisting of renin ,  angiotensin - converting enzyme ,  and angiotensin ii .
the compartment of the femoral sheath that contains efferent lymphatic vessels and a lymph node embedded in a small amount of areolar tissue .
a long slender branch of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery  ( 85% - 100% cases )  or basilar artery  (  < 15% cases )  ,  arises from near the middle of the artery ;  it accompanies the vestibulocochlear nerve through the internal acoustic meatus ,  and is distributed to the internal ear .
a sweat gland that is part of a axilla .
glands of zeis are unilobar sebaceous glands located on the margin of the eyelid .
a stroma that is part of a pancreas .
a capsule that divides the parenchyma of the pancreas into lobes and lobules
a midline nucleus of the dorsal motor column found in animals with a prominent tail ,  including alligator ,  some birds ,  kangaroo ,  rat ,  shrew ,  great anteater .
a sensory tract originating in the spinal cord responsible for transmitting fine touch ,  vibration and conscious proprioceptive information from the body to the cerebral cortex .
a nucleus that contain secondary neurons of the dorsal column - medial lemniscus pathway ,  which carries fine touch and proprioceptive information from the body to the brain .
a boundary delimiting a rhombomere .
the skeletal muscle layer in the superficial fascia deep to the panniculus adiposus
a life cycle stage that starts at completion of development and growth of the sexually mature adult animal ,  and ends before senescence .
the part of the palatine bone that forms the posterior part  ( approximately one third )  of the bony palate .
a vein that supplies blood to the thymus .
a cervical thymus that is located directly beneath the skin .
a cervical thymus that is located deep in the ventral cervical region ,  superficial to hyoid ,  sternomastoid ,  and depressor neck muscles .
a vein that drains a thyroid gland .
an artery that supplies a cervical thymus .
one of the veins draining a meninix .
accompanying vein of internal pudendal artery .
one of the veins of the pelvis which drain into the great saphenous vein .
a branch of the superior mesenteric artery that supplies the jejunum .
a vein that drains a lacrimal gland .
any portion of submucosa that lines the digestive tract .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
a muscular coat that is part of a digestive tract .
the dorsal region of the lateral ganglionic eminence .
the anterior or rostral end of the zygomatic arch ,  which includes the temporal process of the zygomatic bone ,  but also including some of the body of the zygomatic bone .
the third phalangeal bone in a digit ray .
foramen housing the root of the spinal nerve seen in the neural arch of the first vertebrae  ( atlas )  .
adrenal tissue dispersed in clusters ,  found in periphery and center of adrenal gland in turtles  ( yadav ,  2008 )  .
adrenal tissue aggregated in a dorsal layer covering internal cords ,  found in lepidosaur adrenal glands .
adrenal tissue found in archosaurs  -  tissue arranged in bands ,  alternating with interrenal cords  ( yadav ,  2008 ) 
in mammals ,  adrenal tissue has a cortex and medulla creating a composite adrenal gland  ( kardong 2012 ) 
the highest elevation of the paracone on a molariform tooth .
the anterior region of the maxillary tooth row ,  if that tooth row contains teeth that are substantially over the premaxillary teeth  ( see laurin and reisz 1995 ) 
a postcingulum found on deciduous premolar 5
a posthypocrista found on deciduous premolar 5
a protuberence or true tooth that is used during hatching to break the eggshell .
tooth used to break the eggshell ,  that is shed soon after hatching .
epidermal outgrowth that facilitates breaking of the eggshell in archosaurs and monotremes .
the labial most of three cusps on the talonoid  ( posterior )  end of lower molariform teeth .
fifth premolar  ( counting anteroposteriorly  )  in the lower jaw .
third molar  ( counting anteroposteriorly )  in the lower jaw .
pharyngeal toothplate of the lower jaw region ;  typically associated with ceratobranchial 5 element .
first premolar  ( counting anteroposteriorly  )  in the lower jaw .
second premolar  ( counting anteroposteriorly  )  in the lower jaw .
posteroloph found on the first molar tooth .
hypoconid found on the first premolar tooth .
the anterior cusp along the labial margin seen in the molar or premolar teeth of mammals .
a crest running along the labial margin of molarifomr teeth of mammals .
a shelf like ridge on the posterior  ( distal )  outside edge of the upper molariform teeth .
a shelf like ridge on the outside of the upper molariform teeth .
a crest on the hypoconid of molariform teeth .
a shelf like ridge on the proximal  ( mesial )  outside edge of the upper molariform teeth .
first premolar  ( counting anteroposteriorly )  in the jaw .
an enamel ridge joining the protocone and the paracone on the occlusal surface of a maxillary molar .
tooth  ( often obscured from view )  in a 'waiting' position that will replace an existing tooth  ( i .e .
a pit formed in an existing functional tooth ,  causing resorption of the surrounding dentine and periodontal tissues .
cusp found on a platform that is buccaal and mesial to the meta and paracones .
tooth of the lower jaw that is adjacent to the mandibular symphysis
first canine  ( counting anteroposteriorly )  in the upper jaw .
fifth premolar  ( counting anteroposteriorly  )  in the upper jaw .
first molar  ( counting anteroposteriorly )  in the upper jaw .
tissue that is part of some adrenal gland
anatomical region lying to the posteiror or ventral side of the metapterygial axis .
region of the humerus associated with the biceps attachment areas
expanded and swollen region of a surface that is otherwise relatively flat
ridge shaped projection ,  similar to the keel of a boat
distinct colored area on the caudal region of an organism ,  similar in shape to a spot ,  i .e .
anatomical structure consisting of a pattern of ridges on an osteoderm .
a dermal scale that is found in the head region
rib attached to the cervical vertebrae .
a scale part of the cheek scale row .
a row of scales foudn in the cheek region of the head of an organism .
grooves on the palatine bone which denote the passage of the choana or internal naris
pelvic clasper organs that have been modified into a flattened structure
facet on the anterior surface of the calcaneus  ( as called calcaneum )  for the articulation of the cuboid bone
osteoderm found on the dorsal surface of an organisms .
a depression on the lateral surface of the braincase posterior to the vidian canal  ( conrad 2008 ) 
section of the oviduct external to the uterine wall .
a sesamoid bone located near or in the flexor musculature of a joint .
foramen that allows the passge of the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cranial nerve ix )  .
fourth most proximal phalanx in manual or pedal digits .
area on the otic capsule for the articulation of the hyoid
caudal fin radial element located ventral to the notochord
radial element that is part of the caudal fin .
situated just caudal to the acetabulum ,  the foramen is bound dorsally by the illium and ventrally by the ischium .
the condyloid fossa on the cranial aspect of the atlas my be perforated  ( foramen fossa )  or have an open dorsal notch  ( incisura fossa )  in which the apex of the dens rides .
the region on the palate corresponding to the location of the pterygoid bone ,  if present and between the palatine bones and the parasphenoid if not .
open space between on the palate between the pteryogoid bone and the parasphenoid
a joint in the lower jaw that enhances kinesis and for swallowing prey .
elongate bar consisting of fused quadratojugal and jugal and connecting the maxilla to the quadrate
distinct cartilage around the jaws of elasmobranchs
condyle on the lateral side of the quadrate
one of the branches of the dorsal aorta ,  after it enters the aortic canal
the triangular shaped posterior fold at the angle of the mouth .
the medialmost condyle on the distal region of the quadrate ,  in contact with the pterygoid .
the medialmost of the cotyla of the lower jaw ,  for articulation with the cranium .
an embryonic fissure between the otic capsule and the arches which develop into the occipital bones .
distinct colored area on the midbody region of an organism ,  similar in shape to a spot ,  i .e .
a bony projection of the premaxilla that extends cadually and separates the nasal bones .
dorsal swelling on the head .
the wall of the fallopian tube includes an elaborately folded mucosa  ( endosalpinx )  surrounded by a muscularis  ( myosalpinx )  .
an anterior cusp on the stylar shelf of the tooth
the stylar shelf is an an expansion of the cingulum ;  it often bears small cusps  ( each with its own name . . . )  .
a pronounced notch or cavity in the lateral face of the parietal .
ventral process on the neurocranium for the articulation of upper pharyngeal bones .
the lack of chondrification of the anterior wall of the cranial cavity in front of the pineal foramen . . . . . ( hanken and hall ) 
cartilage arranged into tesserae ,  blocks of calcified cartilage that fit together as tiles on a floor form a mosaic .
the convex articular surface on the qudrate ,  part of the craniomandibular joint .
as defined here ,  this refers to a depression on the lateral surface of the braincase posterior to the vidian canal as opposed to the carotid fossa . . . ( conrad 2008 ) 
rictal bristles project from the beak of many insect - eating birds ,  including flycatchers ,  nightjars and even the american robin .
an entotympanic that arises in forward part of tympanic floor .
a median bony point projecting from the anterior and ventral margin of the sternum of a bird .
the ventral portion of the frontals which forms part of the lateral wall of the braincase .
foramen located below the orbit and forming a passageway for nerves  ( eg fifth cranial nerve ) 
on the neurocranium ,  a horizontal plate arising on the ventral junction of the orbital wall and basal plate on each side which extends from the nasal capsule to the otic capsule ;  it forms the floor of the orbit .
anatomical projection on the distal region of the femur or humerus and close to the condyles .
opening for the supracoracoid nerve in the supracoracoid .
foramen in the temporal bone ,  adjacent to the base of the zygomatic process .
process of the parietal
ossified bridge over a tendon ;  particularly ,  the bridge over the extensor canal at the distal end of the tibiotarsus of certain birds .
the crest is present on the ventral side of the bodies of the thoracic vertebra  ( modified from baumel et al .
ventrolaerally oriented ,  paired projections atttached to the ventrolateral border of the body of certain thoracic vertebra ;  the ventrolateral crest flank the crista ventralis on each side .
dorsal sensory canal line in fish ,  dorsal to ventral lateral lane
ventral sensory canal line in fish ,  ventral to dorsal lateral lane
tubercle on the distal humerus for the origin of the lig .
tubercle on the dorsal border of the distal humerus ,  a short distance from the dorsal epicondyle ,  for the origin of the m extensor carpe radialis modifeid from baumel et al .
canal for the vidian nerve
a unit of the tectoral membrane that is shaped like string of flat ,  pearls .
the molar tooth of the upper or lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 1
the molar tooth of the upper or lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 3
the larval stage of a crustacean ,  the stages of which are separated my moults .
the larval  ( metacestode )  stage of the tapeworm echinococcus multilocularis .
instar: a stage in the life of an arthropod  ( as an insect )  between two successive molts .
a tailless encysted late larva of a trematode parasite that is usually the form which is infective for the definitive host .
any of a class  ( cestoda )  of bilaterally symmetrical flatworms parasitic especially in the intestines of vertebrates .
a usually tadpole - shaped larval trematode worm that develops in a molluscan host from a redia .
a sensory receptor that detects stimulus within the body .
a sensory receptor that detects chemical stimulus within the body .
arterial baroreceptors are stretch receptors that are stimulated by distortion of the arterial wall when pressure changes .
found in large systemic veins ,  in pulmonary vessels ,  and in the walls of the right atrium and ventricles of the heart  ( the atrial volume receptors )  .
a baroreceptor that located_in a vein .
a baroreceptor that located_in a heart .
a baroreceptor that located_in a pulmonary vascular system .
the posterior superior alveolar artery  ( posterior dental artery )  is given off from the maxillary ,  frequently in conjunction with the infraorbital just as the trunk of the vessel is passing into the pterygopalatine fossa .
the posterior superior alveolar branches  ( posterior superior dental branches )  arise from the trunk of the maxillary nerve just before it enters the infraorbital groove ;  they are generally two in number ,  but sometimes arise by a single trunk .
mental nerve is a general somatic afferent  ( sensory )  nerve which provides sensation to the anterior aspects of the chin and lower lip as well as the buccal gingivae of the mandibular anterior teeth and the premolars .
a foramen on the exterior of the maxilla that is continuous with the infra - orbital canal and is the conduit for the passage of the infraorbital nerve and artery .
a branch of the maxillary nerve that enters the infraorbital canal and innervates the lower eyelid ,  upper lip ,  the nasal vestibule ,  the upper incisors ,  canines ,  premolars ,  upper gums ,  lower eyelid and conjunctiva ,  and part of the nose .
a groove on the interior of the maxilla that is continuous with the infra - orbital canal and is the conduit for the passage of the infraorbital nerve and artery .
a lymphatic capillary that absorbs dietary fats in the villi of the small intestine .
a skeletal ligament that is part of a hip joint .
a nerve that is formed by the junction of the great petrosal nerve and the deep petrosal nerve and continues on to innervate the palate ,  nose and lacrimal gland .
a z - shaped canal running through the temporal bone from the internal acoustic meatus to the stylomastoid foramen .
an bone foramen in the ethmoid bone .
a foramen of skull that is part of a petrosal bone .
a vascular foramen opening on the outer surface of a nasal bone .
a inguinal ring that is part of a female reproductive system .
a inguinal ring that is part of a male reproductive system .
a deep inguinal ring that is part of a female reproductive system .
a deep inguinal ring that is part of a male reproductive system .
the continuation of each corpus cavernosum of the penis or clitoris ,  diverging posteriorly to be attached to the pubic arch .
a feather that is part of a forelimb .
a feather that is part of a forelimb wing .
a feather that is part of a tail .
a feather that is part of a the upper ventral region of an animal's torso .
a feather that is part of a the dorsal region of an animal's torso .
a feather tract that is part of a the upper ventral region of an animal's torso .
the region of the mandible on or near the midline  ( near the mandiblular symphysis ) 
the anatomical space within the intestine .
muscle innervated by the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
a cluster of motoneurons located in the anterior gray column of lumbar segments 5 and 6 of the spinal cord in the rat .
region where blood progenitor markers are expressed .
a secondary canine tooth that is part of a upper jaw region .
a secondary canine tooth that is part of a lower jaw region .
a lower jaw incisor that is in_the_central_side_of a dentition .
a lower jaw incisor that is in_the_lateral_side_of a dentition .
a primary incisor tooth that is part of a upper jaw region .
a upper primary canine tooth that is in_the_central_side_of a dentition .
a upper primary canine tooth that is in_the_lateral_side_of a dentition .
a lower primary incisor tooth that is in_the_central_side_of a dentition .
a lower primary incisor tooth that is in_the_lateral_side_of a dentition .
a primary canine tooth that is part of a upper jaw region .
a primary canine tooth that is part of a lower jaw region .
a incisor tooth that is in_the_central_side_of a dentition and is part of a lower jaw region .
a incisor tooth that is in_the_lateral_side_of a dentition and is part of a lower jaw region .
a incisor tooth that is in_the_central_side_of a dentition and is part of a upper jaw region .
a incisor tooth that is in_the_lateral_side_of a dentition and is part of a upper jaw region .
the molar tooth of the upper or lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 2
the subdivision of the dentition that consists entire of incisor teeth .
the premolar tooth of the upper or lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 5
the premolar tooth of the upper or lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 4
the peristomium is the second body segment in an annelid worm's body in the anterior end .
a triangular hole in the base of the skull located at the base of the medial pterygoid plate .
a hollow space in the skull of carnivores ,  which do not exhibit a maxillary sinus .
the anterior ethmoidal foramen ,  situated about the middle of the lateral margin of the olfactory groove ,  transmits the anterior ethmoidal vessels and the anterior ethmoidal nerve ;  the nerve runs in a groove along the lateral edge of the cribriform plate to the slit - like opening above mentioned .
the posterior ethmoidal foramen opens at the back part of this margin under cover of the projecting lamina of the sphenoid ,  and transmits the posterior ethmoidal vessels and nerve .
this is present in the cat and forms the large medial part of the bulla tympanica .
a chitin - based cuticular shell derived from the cuticle of the final larval instar that surrounds the pupal form of the organism
any acellular shell or covering that surrounds the pupal form of an insect
an opening of the otic duct within the inner ear .
the neck region of a bone organ .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
a splanchnic nerves that arises from sacral spinal nerves s2 ,  s3 ,  s4 to provide parasympathetic innervation to the hindgut .
the renal plexus is formed by filaments from the celiac plexus ,  the aorticorenal ganglion ,  and the aortic plexus  .
thoracic splanchnic nerves are splanchnic nerves that arise from the sympathetic trunk in the thorax and travel inferiorly to provide sympathetic innervation to the abdomen .
the lumbar splanchnic nerves are splanchnic nerves that arise from the lumbar part of the sympathetic trunk and travel to an adjacent plexus near the aorta .
a splanchnic nerve that connects the inferior hypogastric plexus to the sympathetic trunk in the pelvis .
a mammalian developmental stage that covers the period from birth until weaning .
the meshwork of astrocytic foot processes  ( glial end feet )  covered by a basal lamina adjacent to the inner pial surface of the central nervous system .
a feather that is part of a hindlimb .
a feather that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod .
a membranous sac in animals that serves as the receptacle of a liquid or contains gas .
adipose tissue which is located throughout skeletal muscle and is responsible for the marbling seen in certain cuts of beef .
the deep terminal division of the pudendal nerve that runs along the dorsum of the penis and innervates the the corpus cavernosum penis ,  the prepuce and the glans penis .
the deep terminal division of the pudendal nerve that runs along the dorsum of the clitoral shaft and innervates the the glans clitoris .
zone of skin that is part of the anterior region of the chest
one of the two small muscular fasciculi ,  accessories to the tendon of the obturator internus which is received into a groove between them
gemellus muscle that arises from the upper part of the tuberosity of the ischium ,  immediately below the groove for the obturator internus tendon .
the smaller of the two gemellus muscles that arises from the outer surface of the spine of the ischium ,  blends with the upper part of the tendon of the obturator internus ,  and is inserted with it into the medial surface of the greater trochanter [ wp ]  .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
the central point on the anterior surface of the lens .
a central point or region on the anterior or posterior surface of the lens
either of the outermost digits in a five - digit autopod ,  or their phylogenetic equivalent .
any of the three medial digits in a five - digit autopod ,  or their phylogenetic equivalent .
a white matter that is part of the hindbrain .
a white matter that is part of the forebrain .
a white matter that is part of the myelencephalon .
a fiber pathway in the cerebral white matter that connects anterior portions of the temporal lobe with the inferior frontal gyrus and the middle frontal gyrus .
epithelial layer that is part of the external part of the nose .
a group of cells located between the lateral septal nucleus and the anterior commissure in the mouse  (  paxinos - 2001  )  .
the initial segment of an olfactory nerve ,  leaving the central nervous system .
an oily substance that prevents evaporation of the eye's tear film
an exocrine gland that is part of a integumental system .
a subdivision of the trunk that is comprised of the epigastrium and the anterior lower thorax .
a lacrimal gland located superficially at the lateral canthus ,  where both the lacrimal gland and harderian gland ducts open .
a lacrimal gland located subcutaneously at the anteroventral base of the ear adjacent to the parotid gland .
an anatomical lobe that is part of a lacrimal gland
larger of the two lacrimal gland lobes located superficially .
smaller of the two lacrimal gland lobes located at the eyelid .
the spinal accessory nucleus lies within the cervical spinal cord  ( c1 - c5 )  in the ventral horn .
a blood vessel that supplies or drains an ear .
the superior longitudinal fasciculus  ( also called the superior longitudinal fascicle or slf )  is a pair of long bi - directional bundles of neurons connecting the front and the back of the cerebrum .
the precentral sulcus lies parallel to ,  and in front of ,  the central sulcus .
the thalamic fasciculus is a component of the subthalamus .
the subthalamic fasciculus is a tract which connects the subthalamic nucleus and the globus pallidus .
the acoustic radiations or auditory radiations are structures found in the brain ,  in the ventral cochlear pathway ,  a part of the auditory system .
the optic radiation  ( also known as the geniculo - calcarine tract or as the geniculostriate pathway )  is a collection of axons from relay neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus carrying visual information to the visual cortex  ( also called striate cortex )  along the calcarine fissure .
the planum temporale is the cortical area just posterior to the auditory cortex within the sylvian fissure .
corticopontine fibers ,  commonly referred to as corticobulbar fibers ,  are projections from the cerebral cortex to the pontine nuclei .
the corticobulbar  ( or corticonuclear )  tract is a white matter pathway connecting the cerebral cortex to the brainstem .
a small cistern - like area of the conjunctiva at the medial angle of the eye ,  in which the tears collect after bathing the front surface of the eyeball and the conjunctival sac .
a small conical elevation at the basal angle of the lacrimal lake .
a sharp bend between consecutive segments of the colon .
the splenic  ( or left colic )  flexure is a sharp bend between the transverse and the descending colon in the left upper quadrant of humans .
hepatic  ( or the right colic )  flexure is the sharp bend between the ascending and the transverse colon .
a nucleus in the ventral part of the anterior horn of the sacral region of the spinal cord that is the origin of the pudendal nerve .
a merocrine secretion that is produced by a harderian gland ,  containing lipids
the diverticulum of the thin roof of the dorsocaudal third ventricle that projects into the stalk of the pineal gland .
the single bud - like invagination of the conjunctival fornix epithelium at the temporal aspect of the eye that signals lacrimal gland formation  ( int rev cytol .
a single large hair ,  surrounded by neurovascular tissue at the level of the sebaceous gland ,  with a hair follicle innervated by a hair - tylotrich neuron  ( cl:1001436 )  ,  a rapidly acting mechanoreceptor .
a secretion that is produced by a nictitans gland ,  containing glycoprotein
an aqueous substance that covers the anterior surface of the eyeball ,  keeping the cornea wet .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a reproductive gland .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that corresponds to some structural discontinuity .
the outer surface of an organism or its integumental system .
a nerve that innervates a lower eyelid and is a branch of the infra - orbital branch of the maxillary nerve .
a nerve that innervates an eyelid and is a branch of the infra - orbital branch of the maxillary nerve .
a nerve that innervates a lower eyelid .
a nerve that innervates an upper eyelid .
a branch of the ophthalmic nerve that serves to supply the mucous membrane of the nose ,  the tip of the nose ,  and the conjunctiva .
a branch of the nasociliary nerve that innervates the ciliary muscles ,  the iris ,  and the cornea .
a branch of the ciliary ganglion that innervates the ciliary muscles ,  the iris ,  and the tunics of the eyeball .
single layer of a laminar structure ,  identified by different density ,  arrangement or size of cells and processes arranged in flattened layers or lamina [ cumbo ]  .
most superficial layer of the superior colliculus consisting primarily of thin fibers derived primarily from the occipital cortex  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  2nd 3d ,  1981 ,  pg .
surface layer of the olfactory cortex that contains dendrites ,  fiber systems and a small number of neurons .
middle layer of olfactory cortex lying deep to layer 1 and superficial to layer 3 ,  characterized by a compact layer of cell bodies .
layer of the lateral geniculate nucleus characterized by small cells  ( adapted from wikipedia: https: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / lateral_geniculate_nucleus ) 
layer of entorhinal cortex lying superficial to layer 5 and deep to layer 3 ,  that is relatively acellular .
layer of entorhinal cortex lying superficial to layer 6 and deep to layer 4 characterized by large pyramidal neurons that are darkly stained in nissl preparations  ( adapted from paxinos ,  g . the rat central nervous system ,  2nd ed ,  academic press ,  san diego ,  1995 ,  pg .
layer of the entorhinal cortex lying superficial to layer 4and deep to layer 2 .
layer of entorhinal cortex lying superficial to the cerebral white matter and deep to layer 5 characterized by cells of various shapes and sizes  ( adapted from paxinos ,  g . the rat central nervous system ,  2nd ed ,  academic press ,  san diego ,  1995 ,  pg .
layer of the entorhinal cortex that is most superficial ,  continuous with layer 1 of adjacent neocortex and the molecular layer of the subiculum ,  lying deep to the pial layer and superficial to layer 2 .
layer of the entorhinal cortex lying superficial to layer 3 and deep to layer 1 .
superficial region of layer 2 of the piriform cortex characterized by a less dense packing of cells and a concentration of semilunar cell bodies
deeper of two subdivisions of piriform layer 2 characterized by more densely packed cell bodies dominated by pyramidal cell bodies .
inner third of the dentate gyrus
serous membrane layer that is adjacent to and lines an organ .
serous membrane layer that lines to a body cavity .
component of the orbtial frontal cortex .
component of the cingulate cortex .
the layer of endometrial epithelium adjacent to the uterine cavity .
the layer of endometrial epithelium adjacent to the myometrium .
a blood vessel of the placenta .
a mammary gland duct that is part of a male organism .
a specific region of the foregut into the area in which the lung will develop .
the part of the parahippocampal gyrus that includes the perirhinal and entorhinal cortices .
the second order neuron fibers of the corticopontocerebellar tracts that cross to the other side of the pons and run within the middle cerebellar peduncles ,  from the pons to the contralateral cerebellum .
a collection of principally small and medium - sized cells in the midbrain tegmentum lying at the margin of the midbrain adjacent to the nuclei of the lateral lemniscus
a group of neurons embedded in the pontine central gray of the pontine tegmentum .
part of the superior olivary complex of nuclei in the caudal pontine tegmentum ,  situated within the trapezoid body in humans .
component of the cingulate cortex .
a part of the entorhinal area defined on the basis of connectivity .
a group of structures defined by connectivity ,  namely ,  structures that receive axons from the olfactory bulb .
component of the parietal lobe .
component of the orbtial frontal cortex the rostral boundary is the first slice where the lateral orbital gyrus is apparent with the frontomarginal sulcus whereas the caudal boundary is the disappearance of the lateral orbital gyrus .
the reticulospinal tract  ( or anterior reticulospinal tract )  is an extrapyramidal motor tract which travels from the reticular formation .
a composite structure of the temporal lobe that includes the subiculum ,  the presubiculum and the parasubicular area  ( amaral - 90 ) 
an area of the brain that locates at the interception of temporal and parietal cortices  ( at the posterior end of the sylvian fissure )  .
a portion of the superior temporal gyrus near the temporal pole in the human .
the combined region of ammonõs horn ,  subicular complex and dentate gyrus ;  only fields ca1 - ca3 of the hippocampus were considered to be part of the hf ,  field ca4 being included in the hilus of the dentate gyrus [ 1 ] 
part of olfactory tubercle defined by dense aggregations of granule cells
regional part of telencephalon ;  the most prominent of the islands of calleja located medially in the nucleus accumbens  ( adapted from braininfo .org )  .
part of body that takes the form of a thin sheet of cells or fibrous material ,  e .g . ,  the meningeal coverings of the brain [ nifstd ]  .
a set of neural structures that subserve a specific function ,  e .g . ,  visual system
superficial part of plexiform layer  ( layer 1 )  of piriform cortex that receives afferents from the olfactory bulb by way of the lateral olfactory tract .
deeper part of the plexiform  ( layer 1 )  of piriform cortex characterized by projection of association fibers from other parts of the piriform cortex and other olfactory areas
the basal ganglia of the rodent
cortical region lying caudal to the perirhinal cortex in the rat .
part of hippocampal formation comprising area ca1 and the subiculum  ( pg 425 ,  heimer ,  l . the human brain and spinal cord ,  springer - verlag ,  1995 ) 
the glomerular layer of the main olfactory bulb ,  lying deep to the olfactory nerve layer .
the telencephalon of the primate
rostral portion of the parahippocampal cortex
the telencephalon of a rodent
the brain of a rodent
part of bed nucleus of stria terminalis ,  comprising a distinct ,  large ,  egg - shaped collection of neurons that ,  together with the juxtacapsular  ( ju )  and rhomboid  ( rh )  nuclei ,  encompass the anterolateral area of the bst  ( ju and swanson ,  1989 ) 
central cervical spinocerebellar tract
originates from cells rostral to clarke's column and sends uncrossed axons through the lateral funiculus to the cerebellum .
white matter that lies deep to the granular cell layer of the cerebellar cortex .
one of two divisions of the supraoptic nucleus observed in mammals ,  formed by the ascension of the optic chiasm to split the nucleus in two .
posterior division of the supraoptic nucleus ,  formed by the ascension of the optic tract splitting the nucleus into two regions .
regional part of an anatomical region that is revealed by the use of a stain that reveals chemoarchitecture .
the basis pontis is the anterior portion of the pons .
the ventral topographic division of the midbrain ;  the dorsal topographic division is the tectum .
a collection of neuronal components interacting in a functional circuit .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the pns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
the part of the central nervous system that is involved with movement .
the sensory system for the sense of proprioception .
cortical region near the rhinal sulcus in primate encompassing brodmann's areas 35 and 36
cortical region surrounding the posterior rhinal sulcus in the rat ,  encompassing areas 35 and 36 in the rat .
any molecule ,  protein ,  cell ,  tissue or organ that is related to histamine .
any molecule ,  protein ,  cell ,  tissue or organ that is related to the catecholamines .
any molecule ,  protein ,  cell ,  tissue or organ that is related to gaba .
any molecule ,  protein ,  cell ,  tissue or organ that is related to glutamate  ( when in the role of a neurotransmitter )  .
any molecule ,  protein ,  cell ,  tissue or organ that is related to serotonin .
any molecule ,  protein ,  cell ,  tissue or organ that is related to acetylcholine .
part of brain and spinal cord excluding retina .
sulcus in the frontal lobe of the macaque .
a neuronal circuit bearing a principal projection neuron whose axon extends beyond the region where its soma is located to synapse on the dendrites of cells in other regions of the nervous system  ( bb )  .
a neuronal circuit where all the participating neurons are bounded within a defined and limited region of the nervous system .
a minute canal that passes from the petrous portion of the temporal bone between the jugular fossa and carotid canal to the floor of the tympanic cavity and transmits the tympanic branch of the glossopharyngeal nerve
the division of the spiral canal of the cochlea lying above the spiral lamina and the vestibular membrane .
a superficial feature of the frontal lobe that extends from the dorsal surface onto the medial surface of the superior frontal gyrus  ( ono - 90 )  .
a sulcus in the human parietal lobe that branches dorsally from the intraparietal sulcus  ( savel'ev - 96 )  .
a superficial feature of the parietal lobe that extends from the dorsal surface of the superior parietal lobule across the margin of the parietal lobe into the precuneus  ( ono - 90 )  .
a superficial feature of the parietal lobe .
cortical parcel in occipital cortex of human according to tootell and hadjikhani 2001 that is activated preferentially by more peripheral stimuli compared to the adjacent lateral occipital central parcel
any molecule ,  protein ,  cell ,  tissue or organ that is related to epinephrine  ( also known as adrenaline )  .
any molecule ,  protein ,  cell ,  tissue or organ that is related to norepinephrine  ( also known as noradrenaline )  .
any molecule ,  protein ,  cell ,  tissue or organ that is related to dopamine .
matrix compartment located in the head of the caudate nucleus
matrix compartment located in the tail of the caudate nucleus
the white matter contained within the cerebellum ,  lying deep to the granule cell layer in the cerebellar cortex ,  excluding the parts of the cerebellar peduncles that extend outside of the cerebellum .
the larger of two chemoarchitectural compartments identified in the neostriatum through differential staining for various biochemical markers .
one of two compartments identified in the neostriatum ,  particularly the caudate nucleus ,  on the basis of differential staining for several biochemical markers such as acetylcholinesterase and calbindin .
a projecting portion of the spiral ligament of the cochlea ,  bounding the lower edge of the stria vascularis and containing within it a blood vessel ,  the vas prominens .
area 10m is a cortical area in the frontal lobe defined on multiple architectonic criteria .
insula agranular lateral area
component of the temporal lobe ,  lateral aspect .
component of the cingulate cortex .
matrix compartment located in the caudate nucleus
a taste bud that is located on the soft palate ,  in the roof of the mouth .
composite sulcus of the frontal lobe of the macaque .
a cytoarchitecturally defined portion of the periamygdalar area and the cortical amygdalar nucleus at the caudal extreme of the amygdala .
a zone of thyroid cartilage formed by fusion of the two plate - like laminae of the cartilages .
any organ that is the primary organ of vocalization behavior .
a thin membrane ,  prolonged downward around the surface of the spermatic cord and testis .
the cremasteric artery  ( external spermatic artery )  is a branch of the inferior epigastric artery which accompanies the spermatic cord ,  and supplies the cremaster and other coverings of the cord ,  anastomosing with the testicular artery  ( internal spermatic artery in older texts )  .
the portion of the gubernacular bulb that is located within the abdomen .
the portion of the gubernacular bulb that is located external to the abdomen .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
the layer of the developing cerebral cortex that is formed from the first cohort of neurons to migrate out of the cortical ventricular zone ;  split by the second wave into marginal zone and subplate .
fibrocartilage containing bundles of yellow elastic fibers but with little or no white fibrous tissue .
any of the cranial nerves ,  or their central nervous system analogs  ( the optic tract ,  the epiphyseal tract )  .
a cranial nerve fiber tract that innervates the parietal eye .
a cranial nerve fiber tract that innervates the pineal body .
the more rostral of the two branches of the epiphyseal tract .
a taste bud that is located external to the digestive tube ,  on the head or body ,  as found in species such as goldfish .
a taste bud that is located on a barbel .
a taste bud that is located on a lip .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the head .
a taste bud that is located in the pharynx .
a taste bud that is located on the roof of the mouth .
a taste bud that is located on a fin .
a taste bud that is located in the esophagus .
the pharyngeal nerve  ( pterygopalatine nerve )  is a small branch arising from the posterior part of the pterygopalatine ganglion .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the trunk .
the artery of bulb of vestibule is a branch of the internal pudendal artery .
the autonomic nerve is a small nerve which carries postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons from the zygomaticotemporal nerve ;  a branch of the maxillary nerve ,  to the lacrimal nerve ;  a branch of the ophthalmic nerve .
the medial olfactory stria turns medialward behind the parolfactory area and ends in the subcallosal gyrus ;  in some cases a small intermediate stria is seen running backward to the anterior perforated substance .
a gland in the glandular region of the oviduct that secretes albumen over the ovum .
any ligament that connects the coracoid process with the clavicle
the inferior longitudinal fasciculus connects the temporal lobe and occipital lobe ,  running along the lateral walls of the inferior and posterior cornua of the lateral ventricle .
part of cortex considered to function in higher level visual functions
the part of the auditory cortex that is located on the superior temporal gyrus in the temporal lobe and receives point - to - point input from the ventral division of the medial geniculate complex .
the part of the auditory cortex that receive more diffuse input from the belt areas of the medial geniculate complex .
the occipitofrontal fasciculus passes backward from the frontal lobe ,  along the lateral border of the caudate nucleus ,  and on the medial aspect of the corona radiata ;  its fibers radiate in a fan - like manner and pass into the occipital and temporal lobes lateral to the posterior and inferior cornua .
any sweat gland that is part of an areola
any commissure within the hindbrain .
the zone of skin that overlaps with the glabella region .
a region of the forehead corresponding to the space between the eyebrows and above the nose .
the buccal vestibule is the space external to teeth and gums and internal to lips and cheeks .
a part of an organism or organ that is continuous with its surroundings and distinguished from its surroundings based on morphology .
the term commissural nucleus of the spinal cord refers to a group of cells in the medial portion of the anterior gray column ;  it corresponds roughly to lamina viii
the confluence of the mucosal surface of the conjunctiva ,  the edge of the orbicularis ,  and the cutaneous epithelium .
the anterior extremity of the parahippocampal gyrus is recurved in the form of a hook ,  the uncus ,  which is separated from the apex of the temporal lobe by a slight fissure ,  the incisura temporalis .
any substance in the body or expelled from the body that is in a gaseous state .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of air .
the outgrowth of neuroectoderm located on the floor of the embryonic hypothalamus that gives rise to the neurohypophysis  ( posterior lobe )  of the pituitary gland
the cordlike masses of splanchnic mesenchymal cells ventral to the primordial pericardial coelom that arrange themselves side by side to form the primordia of the endocardial heart tubes
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
nonparenchymatous organ which consists of mucosae of the nose ,  mouth ,  pharyngotympanic tube ,  pharynx and larynx .
the posterior parietal cortex is a portion of the parietal lobe which manipulates mental images ,  and integrates sensory and motor portions of the brain .
granular region of the insular cortex
agranular region of the insular cortex
the thickened ridge of bone that contains the tooth sockets on the premaxilla .
lingual ledge on the inner surface of the premaxilla .
the cervical ganglia are paravertebral ganglia of the sympathetic nervous system .
endocardium that is part of the left atrium .
parenchymal tissue that forms the pineal gland .
any of the muscles that are responsible for moving the scapula .
a cranial suture in the midline of the skull that connects the left and right maxilla bones
the stage of being no more dependent of the nest and / or from caregivers for subsistence while having not reach sexual maturity .
nursing stage that follows the neonate stage in mammals and ends at weaning .
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a cluster of cells ,  largely surrounded by a morphological boundary .
material anatomical entity consisting of multiple anatomical structures that are not connected to each other .
an anatomical group whose members are arranged in a line .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
an anatomical collection that is arranged in a line .
the arcuate artery of the foot  ( metatarsal artery )  arises a little anterior to the lateral tarsal artery ;  it passes lateralward ,  over the bases of the metatarsal bones ,  beneath the tendons of the extensor digitorum brevis ,  its direction being influenced by its point of origin ;  and its anastomoses with the lateral tarsal and lateral plantar arteries .
a region or zone on the surface of an organism that encompasses skin and any adnexa ,  down through muscles and bounded by underlying skeletal support structures .
a pathway of fibers originating in the lateral part of the entorhinal area ,  perforating the subiculum of the hippocampus ,  and running into the stratum moleculare of the hippocampus ,  where these fibers synapse with others that go to the dentate gyrus .
the epithelial layer covering the biliary system .
any organ component layer that consists of smooth muscle tissue .
one of the lingual glands located on the lateral margins of the tongue ,  at the level of the foliate papillae and in the root of the tongue behind the circumvallate papillae .
corrugated anterior region of ciliary body where ciliary processes arise
flattened posterior region of ciliary body
a temporary avascular cartilage found in the heads of ammocoete larvae and surrounded by perichondrium .
an enlarged chamber in the blood sinus capable of accumulating a large volume of blood .
the sinuses of vibrissae are the walls of blood spaces surrounding the roots of vibrissae .
a sensory receptor of the mammalian integument system that consist of a blood sinus plus follicle ,  and sometimes concentric rings of epidermal tissue .
a circumventricular organ of the hypothalamus of many jawed fishes ,  protruding from the caudal infundibular wall .
any gaseous product of an excretory process .
any excreted gas that is produced by the digestive tract .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of carbon dioxide .
an extensive dorsal subcutaneous sac that opens into a lymph heart .
a population of lymphatic endothelial cell precursors that will form the lymph vessels .
an embryonic lymph sac that forms in the root of the mesentery on the posterior abdominal wall
a lymph heart that is part of an embryo
a lymph heart that assists in the return of lymph from the penis to the venous system
the vaginal fornix that is to the side of the cervix .
an artery that arises from the femoral artery and supplies the abdominal wall .
the middle thyroid vein collects the blood from the lower part of the thyroid gland ,  and after being joined by some veins from the larynx and trachea ,  ends in the lower part of the internal jugular vein .
a sulcus that lies within the longitudinal fissure .
one of several small clusters of chemoreceptors ,  baroreceptors ,  and supporting cells located along the aortic arch .
a nonchromaffin paraganglion located in the wall of the jugular bulb .
a cluster of neuroendocrine cells derived from neural crest .
a cluster of chemoreceptive and support cells associated with blood vessels and nerves .
a horizontal thickening onto which the muscles of the femur ,  such as the quadriceps and hamstring ,  attach .
the nerve to quadratus femoris is a nerve that provides innervation to the quadratus femoris and gemellus inferior muscles .
a nerve plexus which provides motor and sensory nerves for the posterior thigh ,  most of the lower leg ,  the entire foot ,  and part of the pelvis .
a nervous plexus in the lumbar region of the body which forms part of the lumbosacral plexus .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a brain region defined by functional criteria ,  e .g .
region of the cerebral cortex that integrates diverse sensory or motor information for purposeful action .
peripheral receptors for pain .nociceptors include receptors which are sensitive to painful mechanical stimuli ,  extreme heat or cold ,  and chemical stimuli .
cellular receptors which mediate the sense of temperature .
either the external or internal abdominal oblique muscles
an epithelium that is part of an eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibro - osseous passageway on the palmar side of the wrist that connects the distal forearm to the middle compartment of the deep plane of the palm .
the superior rectal artery  ( superior hemorrhoidal artery )  is an artery that descends into the pelvis to supply blood to the rectum .
the deep temporal arteries ,  two in number ,  anterior and posterior ,  ascend between the temporalis and the pericranium .
the middle temporal artery arises immediately above the zygomatic arch ,  and ,  perforating the temporal fascia ,  gives branches to the temporalis ,  anastomosing with the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary .
part of lateral pretrosal artery which supplies blood to the eyelids .
deepest layer of olfactory cortex
any of the tubular canals of the parotid gland located within the parenchymal  ( secretory )  tissue i .e .
any of the small intralobular tubular canal that leads directly from the serous acinus of the parotid gland to a striated  ( secretory )  duct ;  in mouse ,  the intercalated ducts are short and narrow and are lined by low cuboidal epithelial cells with large central nuclei ;  they secrete bicarbonate ion into and absorb chloride ion from the acinar product .
any of the intralobular secretory duct of the parotid gland which connects an intercalated duct to an interlobular excretory duct ;  striated ducts are lined by cuboidal to columnar acidophilic cells and are so - named because of characteristic striations in the basal portions of the cells which are due to the alignment of mitochondria between deep infoldings of the basal cell membrane ;  the nucleus is in the central part of the cell above the striations ;  as they approach the excretory ducts ,  their diameter may exceed that of the acini ;  striated ducts reabsorb sodium and secrete potassium .
any of the interlobular excretory ducts of the parotid gland which are found in the connective tissue septa and formed by the union of several intralobular striated  ( secretory )  ducts ;  ultimately ,  the excretory ducts of the parotid gland coalesce and form a single main excretory duct  ( stensen's duct )  that opens into the oral cavity ;  excretory ducts do not change the secretory product .
any of the interlobular excretory ducts of a salivary gland which are found in the connective tissue septa and formed by the union of several intralobular striated  ( secretory )  ducts [ mp , generalized ]  .
epithelium that consists of stellate - shaped contractile cells with long dendritic processes that surround the secretory acini and intercalated ducts of the parotid gland ,  usually found in the glandular epithelium as a thin layer above the basement membrane but generally beneath the luminal cells ;  they display features of both smooth muscle and epithelium ,  such as numerous microfilaments with focal densities in the cytoplasmic processes ,  and desmosomes which attach them to the epithelial cells ;  their functions include contraction when the gland is stimulated to secrete ,  compressing or reinforcing the underlying parenchymal cells ,  thus aiding in the expulsion of saliva and preventing damage to the other cells
any of the lateral nasal glands  ( the largest nasal secretory glands in rodents )  which surround the maxillary sinus located in the lateral wall adjacent to each nasal passage and are characterized by cytologic features similar to those described for the major serous salivary glands ;  secretory contents of the lng drain into the nasal vestibule ;  the lng is a major site for the synthesis and secretion of odorant - binding proteins that serve as odorant carriers in nasal mucus ;  it also ,  synthesizes large amounts of immunoglobulin a ,  which is important for immune defense of the upper respiratory tract ,  and testosterone and salivary androgen - binding proteins ,  which are likely important in olfaction and reproductive behavior
any of the excretory ducts of the parotid gland which are found in the connective tissue septa i .e .
the intraglandular deep parotid lymph nodes are a group of lymph nodes found inside the parotid gland .
a vertebra that has a transverse process .
a vertebra that does not have a transverse process .
a flat anatomical 2d surface that bisects an anatomical structure or an anatomical space .
an anatomical plane that bisects a zone of weakness in an appendage .
a plane of autotomy that divides an appendage through a bone .
a plane of autotomy that divides an appendage through a vertebral bone .
a plane of autotomy that divides an appendage in the space between appendage bones .
a plane of autotomy that divides an appendage in the space between vertebrae .
a post - anal tail that attaches outside the tail .
a muscle that originates via thin tendons from the proximal and dorsal aspects of the neural spines and inserts via fleshy fibers onto the lateral aspect of the base of the neural arch
a muscle that originates via thin tendons from the distal and dorsal aspects of the neural spines .
a muscle that originates via a robust tendon from a tuberosity on the cranial aspect of the iliac crest and via fleshy fibers from the caudoventral aspect of the pelvis ,  the lateral aspects of the transverse processes of ca2 - 8 or 9 ,  and the horizontal intramuscular septum .
a muscle that attaches to the iliac crest and to a caudal vertebra .
a muscle that overlies the hemipenis .
a muscle in females that overlies the soft tissue related to the cloaca ,  where the hemipenes are located in males .
a tube - like muscle attaches to the distal tip of the hemipenis and inserts onto the transverse processes of a caudal vertebra .
a transverse process that is part of a caudal vertebra
any of the two testis - carrying compartments of the scrotum .
the perineal raphe extends from the anus ,  through the mid - line of the scrotum  ( scrotal raphe )  and upwards through the posterior mid - line aspect of the penis  ( penile raphe )  .
the temporal fascia covers the temporalis muscle .
a nerve that innervates the sole of the foot .
a plantar nerve that supplies the lateral side of the plantar part of the foot ,  including pedal digit 5 .
a plantar nerve that supplies the medial side of the plantar part of the foot ,  including pedal digit 1 .
any of the muscles that are entirely within the body part or segment moved by them .
a space or gap between the left and right central incisors ,  on either the upper or lower jaw .
a space or gap between the left and right central incisors on the upper jaw .
a space or gap between the left and right central incisors on the lower jaw .
any material entity that is located in the digestive tract .
a space or gap any two incisors .
lateral walls of the oropharynx that are located medial to the palatoglossal folds
median palatine suture of the palatine processes of the maxillary bones ,  and the median suture of the palatine bones
line of union ,  in the floor of the orbit ,  between the orbital process of the palatine bone and the orbital surface of the maxilla .
a line of junction of the orbital process of the palatine bone and the orbital plate of the ethmoid .
the line of junction between the processes of the maxilla and the horizontal parts of the palatine bones that form the hard palate .
any of the sutures of the hard palate
a curved region of the skeleton of the pes  ( foot )  formed by the tarsal and metatarsal bones .
a pointed projection at the front extremity of the intermaxillary suture .
space between the prepuce and glans penis or clitoris
a medial muscle found in the ventral midline of annelid embryos
contractile mesodermal midline cells in the ventral midline of annelid embryos that give rise to the axochord
the superior cerebral veins ,  eight to twelve in number ,  drain the superior ,  lateral ,  and medial surfaces of the hemispheres ,  and are mainly lodged in the sulci between the gyri ,  but some run across the gyri .
the internal cerebral veins  ( veins of galen ;  deep cerebral veins )  drain the deep parts of the hemisphere and are two in number ;  each is formed near the interventricular foramen by the union of the terminal and choroid veins .
most superficial layer of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex  ( dlpfc )  .
layer 2 of neocortex lying just deep to superficial layer 1 of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex .
layer 3 of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex lying deep to the layer 2 and cytoarchitectonically defined by numerous small pyramidal neurons .
layer 4 of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex lying deep to the external pyramidal layer and cytoarchitectonically defined by presence of small cells .
layer 5 of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex lying deep to the internal granule cell layer 4 and cytoarchitectonically divisible into layers 5a and 5b .
innermost layer of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex lying deep to the internal pyramidal cell layer 5 .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
a lymph node located in the area below the clavicle .
the flattened aspect of the prostate with a slight furrow facing the rectum and anus .
the region below the clavicle .
the organ of hearing located on the right side of the head .
clinical esophageal segment composed of smooth muscle .
the sigmoid arteries ,  two or three in number ,  run obliquely downward and to the left behind the peritoneum and in front of the psoas major ,  ureter ,  and internal spermatic vessels .
an artery that branches from the medial occipital artery that aligns with the calcarine sulcus .
the plantar metatarsal arteries  ( digital branches )  are four in number ,  and run forward between the metatarsal bones and in contact with the interossei .
the tubules that carry lymph throughout the body that are just beneath the surface of the skin .
a major portion of the greater omentum between the stomach and the transverse colon .
a lymph node located in the back of the head adjacent to the trapezius muscle .
a branch of the common peroneal nerve .
the paracolic gutters  ( paracolic sulci ,  paracolic recesses )  are spaces between the colon and the abdominal wall .
the superior portion of the heart located opposite to the apical portion .
zone of esophagus located in the thorax .
any of the lymph nodes of the breast located under the ribcage ,  near the sternum .
a branch of the middle cerebral artery that supplies blood to the anterior part of the temporal lobe .
between the plica triangularis and the surface of the palatine tonsils is a space known as the tonsillar fossa  ( or tonsillar sinus )  ;  in many cases ,  however ,  this sinus is obliterated by its walls becoming adherent .
a vein that runs along the fissure of sylvius to the cavernous sinus on the lateral surface of the brain and connects to the superior sagittal and transverse sinuses .
a circumflex femoral vein that accompanies the medial circumflex femoral artery .
furrows ,  with pouchlike recesses at the lower end ,  separating the rectal columns .
a vein that drains the superficial muscles and integument of the upper back portion of the neck into the external jugular vein .
a vein that extends along the bottom of the twelfth rib on the left side of the body .
a structure composed of adipose tissue lying above the pubic bone of adult women ,  anterior to the symphysis pubis .
the narrowest portion of the gallbladder and distal to the cystic duct .
the superior thoracic artery  ( highest thoracic artery )  is a small vessel normally arising from the first division of the axillary artery ,  but may arise from the thoracoacromial artery ,  itself a branch of the second division of the axillary artery .
the upper central region of the abdomen between the costal margins and the subcostal plane .
a lymph node which is located above the clavicle .
an extension of the tissue of the breast which extends into the axilla .
the organ of hearing located on the left side of the head [ ncit , modified ]  .
an elevated zone of the sella turcica behind the chiasmatic groove [ wp , modified ]  .
the aspect of the prostate facing the pelvic diaphragm and pubis .
the membrane the surrounds the prostate gland .
a fissure in the midline of the anterior surface of the spinal cord .
the quarter of the breast which is superior and lateral .
the uppermost part of the prostate gland adjacent to the bladder wall .
the cavernous sinus receives the superior ophthalmic vein through the superior orbital fissure ,  some of the cerebral veins ,  and also the small sphenoparietal sinus ,  which courses along the under surface of the small wing of the sphenoid .
the prostate gland lobe that is located on the posterior side of the organ .
the quarter of the breast which is inferior and lateral .
the aspect of the kidney facing the abdominal cavity .
a lymph node located in the retroperitoneal space .
a vein running parallel to the right coronary artery in the coronary sulcus that drains into the right extremity of the coronary sinus .
one of the semi - lunar transverse folds of the rectal wall that protrude into the anal canal .
an arterial branch arising from the anterior cerebral artery .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood from the gallbladder and the cystic duct into the right branch of the portal vein .
an artery that supplies the pituitary gland .
the superior hypophysial artery is an artery supplying the pars tuberalis , the infundibulum of the pituitary gland and the median eminence .
the diaphragma sellae or sellar diaphragm is the circular fold of dura mater that almost completely roofs the fossa hypophyseos in the sphenoid bone of the skull .
a ligament running the length of the anterior surface of the spinal column and thereby interconnects all the vertebral bodies .
branch of left coronary artery which runs perpendicular to the anterior interventricular branch of the left coronary artery on the left side of the interventricular sulcus and supplies the left side of the heart .
a small triangular process of dura matter beginning at the internal occipital crest just beneath the tentorium and projecting forward .
the parietal pleura that lines the mediastinum .
a vein that drains blood from the right adrenal gland into the inferior vena cava .
loose connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which consists predominantly of mucoid ground substance .
the lowest part of the prostate gland adjacent to the superior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm .
muscular components of the deep perineal pouch .
clinical esophageal segment composed of skeletal muscle .
the artery that delivers blood to the anterior portion of the parietal lobe .
a space inside the uterus lined by a layer of mucus membranes called the endometrium .
the angled junction where the diaphragm meets the chest wall .
a vein that extends along the bottom of the twelfth rib on the right side of the body .
the quarter of the breast which is inferior and medial .
the external portion of the prostate including the anterior ,  inferolateral ,  lateral and posterior surfaces .
a vein that drains blood from the left adrenal gland into the left renal artery .
the inferior hypophysial artery is an artery supplying the pituitary gland .
the concave side of the lymph node .
the portion of the greater omentum that extends from the greater curvature of the stomach to the inferior surface of the diaphragm
free nerve endings are widely distributed throughout the body ,  and are found as branches of unmyelinated ,  or lightly myelinated fibres grouped in bundles beneath the epithelium .
a lymph node located in the superior mediastinum that collects lymph from the thymus ,  the pericardium ,  and the right side of the heart .
the aspect of the prostate facing the pubic symphysis .
a branch of the common fibular nerve that innervates the fibularis longus and brevis muscles ,  and via branches innervates parts of the dorsal part of the pes .
the basal vein is formed at the anterior perforated substance by the union of  ( a )  a small anterior cerebral vein which accompanies the anterior cerebral artery and supplies the medial surface of the frontal lobe by the fronto - basal vein .
the blood vessel that receives deoxygenated blood from the insula and gyri and drains into the basal vein of rosenthal deep in the lateral sulcus .
the middle portion of the gallbladder which is distal to the gallbladder neck and proximal to the gallbladder fundus .
any of several arteries that arise from the aorta and supply blood to the esophagus .
the quarter of the breast which is superior and medial .
the tubules that carry lymph throughout the body that are in the interior of the body or limbs .
the outer layer of the choroid  ( lamina vasculosa )  consists ,  in part ,  of the larger branches of the short ciliary arteries which run forward between the veins ,  before they bend inward to end in the capillaries ,  but is formed principally of veins ,  named ,  from their arrangement ,  the vorticose veins .
the part of the circulatory system that lies within the subcutaneous tissue layers close to the surface of the skin .
any of the veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the subcutaneous tissue layers .
the part of the circulatory system that lies deep beneath the subcutaneous tissue layers away from the surface of the skin .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood far beneath the skin usually accompanying an artery .
any chamber of the left side of the heart
any chamber of the right side of the heart
obsolete: the fascia dentata is the earliest stage of the hippocampal circuit .
an unjointed ,  rod - like bony or cartilaginous structures that extend from distal limb joints in tetrapods .
a nucleus that is part of the superficial pretectum and is characterized by large widely scattered cells .
a nucleus that is part of the superficial pretectum and is characterized by small cells .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the superficial pretectum and is rostrally contiguous with the magnocellular superficial pretectal nucleus .
any nucleus found in the central pretectum .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the central pretectum and lies dorsolateral to the caudal pretectal nucleus .
any nucleus found in the superficial pretectum .
a nucleus medial to the central pretectal nucleus in the periventricular zone .
a neural nucleus of the pretectal region that lies lateral to the posterior commissure and gives rise to widespread projections .
a pretectal nucleus in aves that receives heavy retinal input and is hypothesized to be homologous to the nucleus of the optic tract of mammals .
a nuclear complex in the ventral pretectal region .
subdivision of visual system that processes movements of images across retina and regulates the movement of eyes to keep the image stable .
a group of cells located in the central part of the anterior hypothalamic nucleus in the anterior hypothalamic region of the rat  (  swanson - 2004  )  and the mouse  (  paxinos - 2001  )  .
an embryonic structure positioned halfway between the prospective eye and ear ,  adjacent to the future midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
a nerve tract found in marine worms that is located in the collar body region  ( three body regions in marine worms: proboscis ,  collar  ( extending into tentacle - fringed arms )  and trunk ) 
anteriormost of the three body regions of an enteropneust .
middle of the three body regions of an enteropneust .
posteriormost of the three body regions of an enteropneust .
any longitudinally extending condensed cluster of neurons and processes that runs along the dorsal mid - line of the animal that is not the most prominent nerve cord .
any lymph vessel that is located in the dura mater of the brain .
the innermost layer of the outer root sheath .
tubular connection between the epidermal surface and the most distal part of the inner root sheath .
column of keratinocytes growing into the dermis during embryonic hair follicle development .
a skeletal element of the ethmoid region with complex morphology that are lined with mucuous membranes involved in either olfaction or air conditioning .
the space filled with loose areolar tissue surrounding the pharynx ;  it is divided into two major divisions ,  the parapharyngeal space and the retropharyngeal space .
the portion of the peripharyngeal space limited by the lateral wall of the pharynx ,  the cervical vertebrae and medial pterygoid muscle .
the portion of the peripharyngeal space that is located posterior to the pharynx .
the part of the breast that is bordered by the intermammary line and a perpendicular line bisecting the nipple .
the parts of the orbital region that are outside of the the eyeball ,  including the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva
the middle vesical artery ,  usually a branch of the superior vesical artery ,  is distributed to the fundus of the bladder and the seminal vesicles .
any nerve that innervates the larynx .
the anterior superior alveolar branch  ( anterior superior dental branch )  ,  of considerable size ,  is given off from the maxillary nerve just before its exit from the infraorbital foramen ;  it descends in a canal in the anterior wall of the maxillary sinus ,  and divides into branches which supply the incisor and canine teeth .
a branch of the facial nerve that innervates the posterior auricular and intrinsic muscles of the auricle and ,  through its occipital branch ,  innervates the occipital belly of the occipitofrontal muscle .
any nerve that innervates the pinna .
any nerve that innervates the penis .
any nerve that innervates the clitoris .
any nerve that innervates the fibularis .
the small superficial veins that arise from the cutaneous veins ,  and run from the umbilicus along the round ligament of the liver ;  these terminate as accessory portal veins in the liver .
the anterior facial vein receives a branch of considerable size ,  the deep facial vein ,  from the pterygoid venous plexus .
a vein that represents a continuation of the angular vein and lies behind the facial artery .
a network of capillaries .
the lymph nodes around the subsegmental bronchi .
the upper ,  smaller part of the prostate between the ejaculatory ducts and the urethra .
the coccygeal plexus is a plexus of nerves near the coccyx bone .
the inferior mesenteric plexus is derived chiefly from the aortic plexus .
the abdominal aortic plexus  ( aortic plexus )  is formed by branches derived ,  on either side ,  from the celiac plexus and ganglia ,  and receives filaments from some of the lumbar ganglia .
the thoracic aortic plexus is a sympathetic plexus in the region of the thoracic aorta .
the region between the mandible and the hyoid bone that contains the submandibular and sublingual glands ,  suprahyoid muscles ,  submandibular ganglion ,  and lingual artery .
a parasympathetic ganglion located on the short ciliary nerve differentiated from the main ciliary ganglion by virtue of the fact that it had no root derived directly from the inferior trunk of the oculomotor nerve and it never attaches to this nerve
any parasympathetic ganglion that extends fibers into the short ciliary nerve .
a portion of semen in a coagulated state .
a nucleus in the brain of songbirds located in the caudal nidopallium ,  projecting to the song motor pathway via the robust nucleus of the arcopallium and to the anterior forebrain pathway via the basal ganglia nucleus area x .
part of alveus lying within hippocampal sector ca2
a neural network located in the brain that is part of the motor system involved in the coordination of movement that is distinct from the pyramidal tract .
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
a muscle layer that is part of the sigmoid colon
the dark ,  nonstriated ,  v - shaped band  ( ridge )  found on the underside of the tectorial membrane in the basal region of the cochlea ,  from which fine gelatinous trabeculae extend to fix the tm to the border cells ,  i .e .
a nucleus in the basal ganglion of songbirds .
a specialized nucleus within the intermediate archistriatum of songbirds ,  required for and active during the production of learned song .
the sum of epicardial and paracardial fat deposits .
fat deposits in the mediastinum outside the parietal pericardium  .
any fat deposit surrounding a visceral organ .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdominal segment of the trunk ,  which encompasses the abdomen proper plus pelvic cavity .
a serous sac that is the aggregate of the peritoneum and the peritoneal cavity ,  located in the abdominal cavity .
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that is in the left side of the abdomen
the adrenal gland medulla that is in the left side of the abdomen
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that is in the right side of the abdomen
the adrenal gland medulla that is in the right side of the abdomen
artery that runs from right to left along the greater curvature of the stomach ,  between the layers of the greater omentum ,  anastomosing with the left gastroepiploic branch of the splenic artery .
artery that runs from left to right along the greater curvature of the stomach ,  between the layers of the greater omentum ,  and anastomoses with the right gastroepiploic .
the domain of the diaphragm that is a thin domed sheet of muscle composed of a radial array of myofibers extending laterally from the ribs and medially to a central tendon .
a striated muscle sphincter that is an extension of the diaphragm and surrounds the vena cava .
region around the apex of the cardiac left ventricle located at the bottom of the left ventricle inferior to both the mitral and aortic valve .
mucosa from the lowest portion of the esophagus ,  just proximal to the stomach .
submucosa from the lowest portion of the esophagus ,  just proximal to the stomach .
muscularis mucosa from the lowest portion of the esophagus ,  just proximal to the stomach .
muscularis propria from the lowest portion of the esophagus ,  just proximal to the stomach .
an accessory extensor muscle of the hand found in some humans and other animals .
the connective tissue between tendon and bone insertion sites ,  which acts to transmit tensile load from soft tissues to bone .
the infraorbital margin is the lower margin of the orbita .
the mostly sharp edge of the orbital opening that is the peripheral border of the base of the pyramidal orbit .
a ridge of bone connecting left and right orbital margins located beneath the eye sockets .
the bone region of the epiphysis that provides underlying mechanical and physiological support for the cartilage of joint articular surfaces .
a suture between the frontal bone and the frontal process of the maxilla
a suture between the zygomatic bone and the zygomatic process of the maxilla .
a suture between the orbital surface of the body of the maxilla with the orbital plate of the ethmoid bone .
an inconstant suture between the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone and the body of the maxilla .
a suture between the lacrimal bone and the maxilla .
a suture between the maxilla and premaxilla .
a fissure that divides the culmen lobule  ( lobules iv and v ) 
the spreading out of the fibers of the corpus callosum in the centrum semiovale of each cerebral hemisphere .
the junction of the precentral gyrus and postcentral gyrus on the medial surface of the cerebral cortex .
part of the optic radiation which sweeps back on itself into the temporal lobe ,  just lateral to the temporal horn of the lateral ventricle .
the arcuate fasciculus  ( latin ,  curved bundle )  is the neural pathway connecting the posterior part of the temporoparietal junction with the frontal cortex in the brain and is now considered as part of the superior longitudinal fasciculus .
a dense surrounding coat of white fibers ,  as the sheath of the inferior olive and of the dentate nucleus .
the thickening of the lower surface of the tectorial membrane into which the hair bundles of the outer hair cells are embedded .
the space between the upper jaw skeleton and lower jaw skeleton  ( including teeth )  that is formed when when biting .
a temporal boundary connecting two life cycle stages that follow in immediate succession .
a life cycle temporal boundary that marks the end of the life cycle of the organism .
a life cycle temporal boundary that marks the start of the life cycle of the organism .
a life cycle temporal boundary that marks the start of the neonate stage of the organism .
historically the term cerebrum has been used for several different parts of the cns including the whole brain ,  the cerebral hemispheres and the sum of cerebral cortex and adjacent cerebral white matter .
the lumen of the epididymis
the posteriormost orbital pillar ,  in front of the otic capsule .
the anteriormost orbital pillar ,  in front of the otic capsule .
a skeletal projection in the chondrocranium that developmentally connects the orbital cartilage and may develop into bone regions .
the locomotory and feeding organ ,  found in the larval veliger stage of bivalves .
1: the trunk of an elephant ;  also: any long flexible snout .
supravaginal portion of cervix: the part of the cervix uteri that does not protrude into the vagina .
epithelial lining fluid forms a thin fluid layer that covers the mucosa of the alveoli ,  the small airways ,  and the large airways .
the promontory of the tympanic cavity ,  better known as the cochlear promontory is a rounded hollow prominence ,  formed by the projection outward of the first turn of the cochlea .
the perforated part of the sclera through which pass the axons of the retinal ganglion cells .
the mucous membrane apical to the attached gingiva .
a receptor in the transitional zone between mucous membrane and skin .
a tacile mechanoreceptor that lacks a capsule .
on the medial wall of the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle is a longitudinal eminence ,  the calcar avis  ( hippocampus minor )  ,  which is an involution of the ventricular wall produced by the calcarine fissure .
division of subicular cortex characterized by projections from the anterodorsal thalamic nucleus and to a lesser extent the anteroventral nucleus ,  bordered ventrally and laterally by the presubiculum and dorsally and medially by the retrosplenial granular a cortex . .
a group of nerve cells that bridges the midline of the thalamus between the anterodorsal nucleus of the thalamus of the left and right sides .
distinct cell group in caudoventral regions of the pontine periventricular gray ,  adjacent to the ventromedial border of the caudal dorsal tegmental nucleus .
a small cluster of neurons in the pontine reticular formation in some mammals ,  containing the majority of motoneurons innervating thenretractor bulbi muscles of the eye
a group of cells near the surface of the brain between the supraoptic nucleus and the cortical amygdalar nucleus in the rat  (  swanson - 1998  )  and the mouse  (  paxinos - 2001  )  .
collections of neurons in the central nervous system that have been demonstrated by histochemical fluorescence to contain the neurotransmitter dopamine  (  fuxe - 1970  ) 
a group of cells that fluoresce for dopamine and are distributed in clusters that ,  in the primate ,  are ventral and medial to the mammillothalamic tract of the hypothalamus ;  a few extend into the reuniens nucleus of the thalamus  ( felten - 1983 )  .
the line that divided the gluteal regions of the body .
a horizontal crease formed by the inferior aspect of the buttocks and the posterior upper leg .
a yellowish pungent liquid that is a mixture of the castor sacs  ( an anal gland in the taxon castoreum )  and urine .
a sweet viscid material elaborated out of the nectar of flowers in the honey sac of various bees .
a bodily fluid consisting of the contents of the digestive tract expulsed through the anterior portion of the digestive tract .
a mass of undigested parts of a bird's food that some bird species occasionally regurgitate from their proventriculus .
a non - glandular region of the anal wall in which castoreum is produced .
the endocardial cushion that forms on the ventral surface of the av canal .
the endocardial cushion that forms on the dorsal surface of the av canal .
the lower portion of the larynx ,  extending from just beneath the vocal cords down to the top of the trachea .
one of two longitudinal ridges that develop caudal to the pharynx and fuses to give rise to the tracheoesophageal septum .
the tracheoesophageal septum is formed from the tracheoesophageal folds which fuse in the midline to form a structure called tracheoesophageal septum .
a skeletal muscle found in crocodilians that is analogous to the diaphragm of mammals
a vein that leaves the vestibule through an individual bone canal running parallel to the vestibular aqueduct up to the dura of the posterior side of the petrosa in the area of the endolymphatic sac .
the meningeal branch of the mandibular nerve  ( recurrent branch ,  nervus spinosus )  is a branch of the mandibular nerve that supplies the dura mater .
an infrequent rudimentary duct ,  or protrusion of the mucous membrane into the incisive canal ,  on either side of the anterior extremity of the nasal crest
macroscopic waste clearance system that utilizes a unique system of perivascular tunnels ,  formed by astroglial cells ,  to promote efficient elimination of soluble proteins and metabolites from the central nervous system .
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
a muscle that is part of an oral siphon
area of skin in the hypoastric region of the abdomen .
an organ subunit in the skin that gives rise to cutaneous appendage .
a placenta in which the chorionic sac meets the uterine endometrium over its entire surface .
a placenta in which the villi clumped together into circular patches called cotyledons .
a placenta in which the chorionic villi have aggregated to form a broad band that circles about the center of the chorion .
a placenta in which part of the chorion remains smooth ,  while the other part interacts with the endometrium to form the placenta .
a placenta in which all three maternal layers are retained .
a placenta in which the only maternal layer retained is the uterine endothelium .
a placenta in which no maternal layers are retained .
a rostral part of the parahippocampal gyrus .
sattler's layer is layer of medium diameter blood vessels of the choroid .
the palmaris brevis is a thin ,  quadrilateral muscle ,  placed beneath the integument of the ulnar side of the hand .
the abductor minimi digiti  ( abductor digiti quinti )  is situated on the ulnar border of the palm of the hand .
the flexor digiti minimi brevis is a muscle in the hand that flexes the little finger .
the opponens minimi digiti  ( opponens digiti quinti in older texts )  is a muscle in the hand .
the fish catecholamines originate in two large aggregations of neurons: the nucleus recessus lateralis  ( nrl )  and the nucleus recessus posterioris  ( nrp )  .
the blood - testis barrier  ( abbreviated as btb )  is a physical barrier between the blood vessels and the seminiferous tubules of the animal testes .
a surface structure that is the narrowed downward continuation of the conchal space bounded anteriorly by the borders of the tragus ,  posteriorly by theantitragus ,  and along its lower lateral margins and inferior boundary by the connection between the first two .
an anatomical junction that is between the sigmoid colon and rectum .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
the tympanic nerve  ( nerve of jacobson )  is a branch of the glossopharyngeal nerve found near the ear .
a bodily fluid that is located in the coelom .
the most anterior region of the forebrain including both the telencephalon and the hypothalamus in the prosomeric model
a region of the pododerm above the hoof where hair growth ends .
the corticobulbar and corticospinal tracts combined .
any gland that is part os the respiratory system .
a notochord that has persisted beyond the embryonic stage .
fluid that lines the vaginal walls that consists of multiple secretions that collect in the vagina from different glands .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
parenchymal tissue that consists of the alveoli ,  grape - like clusters where milk is stored ,  and branching ducts ,  which are tubular canals carrying gladular secretions .
the small synovial joint connecting the inclus and the stapes ,  located between the lenticular process on the long crus of the incus and the head of the stapes .
the saddle - shaped synovial joint connecting the incus and the malleus .
any synovial joint that connects auditory ossicles .
the acellular membrane that forms the outer two thirds of the basilar membrane of the conchlea .
the space between the digits of the hand or foot .
a pear - shaped bony inlet comprising the most anterior and narrowest bony portion of the nasal airway .
the system that is responsible for sensing the internal state of the body .
an embryonic lymph sac that forms near the junction of the iliac veins with the posterior cardinal veins .
a lymphatic propulsor that lies tightly against the truncus arteriosus ,  the major outflow tract of the amphibian heart .
an embryonic lymph sac that is dorsal to the retroperitoneal lymph sac ,  at the level of the adrenal glands .
an extracoelomic lateral abdominal space that accumulates body fluid .
any of the eight ligaments pertaining to the uterus including the anterior ,  posterior ,  lateral ,  sacro - uterine and round ligaments .
the upper part of the larynx ,  including the epiglottis ;  the area above the vocal cords .
the zygomaticotemporal nerve or zygomaticotemporal branch  ( temporal branch )  is derived from the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
the part of vertebra located between the inferior and superior articular processes of the facet joint .
an elastic ligament lying between the lateral pharyngeal muscles and the thyroglossus muscle
a fetal membrane ,  part of the yolk sac ,  that appears during some placentation processes .
a non - vascular omphalopleure that supports uptake and metabolism of nutrients .
a vascular omphalopleure that is important for respiration .
the anterior and posterior borders of the tonsillar fossa .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of aorta .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
the fallopian tubes and ovaries .
a small fold of mucous membrane in the mouth ,  connecting either the tongue or the lip to the mouth mucosa .
a mucosa that is part of a lip region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper tract of the renal system .
an anatomical structure that is located along the line dividing two regions of an anatomical structure .
wall of organ which has as its parts the endocardium ,  myocardium  ,  epicardium ,  and the cardiac septum ,  surrounded by the pericardial sac proper and is continuous with the walls of the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
subdivision of the head consisting of the area along the lower edge of the chin .
a collection of hairs that grows on the vertex  ( top of head )  .
the middle part of the head ,  located approximately equidistant from the left and the right sides of the head .
a longitudinal flap of skin that hangs beneath the lower jaw or neck .
a collection of hairs that grows on the external ear .
anatomical junction consisting of the area along the edge of the external ear .
a collection of hairs that grows on the forehead .
a bulge ,  knob ,  or swelling that protrudes from the forehead .
subdivision of the head consisting of the left half of the face ,  vertically divided .
a ridge or peak located along the middle part of the head ,  located approximately equidistant from the left and the right sides of the head .
a benign tumor on the skin ,  usually with darker pigment .
anatomical structure consisting of either corner of the mouth .
subdivision of the head consisting of the area along the front edge of the external nose .
the extreme point of curvature of the external nose .
subdivision of the head consisting of the right half of the face ,  vertically divided .
a zone of skin that is part of the snout .
subdivision of the head consisting of the pointed or rounded end or extremity of the snout .
subdivision of the head consisting of the pointed or rounded end or extremity of the external ear .
a small collection or tuft of hairs .
the top of the head .
a collection of hairs that grows on the snout .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
a multilobulated modified sebaceous gland that is located at the base of the external ear ,  lined by stratified squamous epithelium ,  and secretes into the auditory canal
the parenchyma of the spleen ,  consisting of lymphocytes and macrophages .
a parenchyma that is part of a spleen .
enlarged and broad extension of the scapula distal to the glenoid region that conforms to the contour of the ribs .
anatomical space that contains a portion of the lateral line system .
paired cartilaginous element forming the posterior portion of the pelvic girdle .
paired fin radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
the median ,  elongated basal cartilage of the pectoral fin .
pelvic fin radial that develops from the pelvic fin endoskeletal disc .
pelvic fin radial that is an endochondral fused radials or pterygiophores at the base of the pelvic fin .
pelvic fin radial in the middle of the pelvic fin .
radial element that is part of a paired fin .
pelvic fin radial element that develops from the pelvic fin endoskeletal disc .
pelvic fin radial element that is an endochondral fused radial elements or pterygiophores at the base of the pelvic fin .
pelvic fin radial element in the middle of the pelvic fin .
paired fin radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
the visible division between epiblast and hypoblast in the gastrula .
small but distinctive epithelial sac containing fluid ,  located midventrally posterior to the yolk cell or its extension ,  and transiently present during most of the segmentation period .
the anterior round region of the yolk cell present after the yolk extension forms during the segmentation period .
a group of cells that migrate at the leading edge of shield during gastrulation but do not involute .
surface structure that will develop into one of the median fins .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
actinotrichium which is part of the dorsal fin fold .
the hatching gland rudiment at the time it underlies the forebrain during the early segmentation period .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
actinotrichium which is part of the ventral fin fold .
nutrient store for embryonic development in the form of semicrystalline phospholipoprotein and contained within yolk granules .
peripheral layer of the yolk cell including nuclei and non - yolky cytoplasm .
elastoidin fin ray that is slender ,  sometimes branched distally and present in the embryonic fin fold .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the dorsal fin .
region of the median fin fold that develops into the dorsal fin .
dermal bone that is located on the dorsal margin of the maxilla ,  usually at the dorso - posterior region of maxilla .
dermal bone that is located dorsal to the preopercle or lies on the antero - dorsal corner of the opercle ,  and encloses the upper section of the preopercular canal .
the posterior elongated region of the yolk cell that forms during the segmentation period .
ganglion that develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate a lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the mandibular lateral line .
dermal bone positioned as the first bone of the infraorbital series .
neuromast that is part of the otic lateral line .
brightly refractile stone - like organ within the otic vesicle and positioned over a sensory macula ;  two form in each vesicle during the late segmentation period .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
median fin skeleton that is located posterior to the anus .
patches of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium of the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
replacement bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates dorsally with the hyosymplectic cartilage or the articulation of the hyomandibula and symplectic .
cranial nerve which enters the brain between cranial nerves viii and ix ;  contains afferents and sensory efferents to the posterior lateral line ganglion and middle ganglion .
part of the anterior commissure which abuts the preoptic region dorsally .
replacement bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates with the anterior ceratohyal posteriorly and the ventral hypohyal bone ventrally .
a section of a pharyngeal arch artery that carries blood away from the gills .
an endochondral bone which is located anterior to the orbitosphenoid and medial to the paired lateral ethmoid .
infraorbital in fishes that is the first  ( anteriormost )  bone of the infraorbital series .
process that is the ventral ,  posteriorly - oriented bony extension of the quadrate .
endochondral bone that separates the olfactory region from the orbit ,  extends medially to meet its fellow medially below the frontal bones and is bordered by the mesethmoid anteriorly .
macula positioned on the floor of the utricle adjacent to the utriculosaccular foramen at the base of the common crus .
endochondral bone that articulates laterally with the medial surface of the cleithrum and ventro - medially with the scapula and coracoid .
endochondral bone that forms the posteriormost element of the palatal complex .
dermal bone that forms the postero - dorsal part of the opercular series .
a fin that is fleshy ,  lacks supporting rays ,  and is located posterior to the dorsal fin .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva .
dermal bone that is part of the opercular series and bears the preopercular sensory canal .
portion of presumptive mesoderm fated to become dorsal mesoderm .
anal fin proximal radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
specialized neuronal receptor cells of the lateral line and acoustico - vestibular systems .
dermal bone that is part of the opercular series ,  lying below the opercle .
a dermal bone that is the lower ,  horizontal portion of the preopercle bone .
lateral line sensory nucleus located in the cerebellum that processes sensory input from the lateral line .
replacement bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates with the ceratohyal bone posteriorly and the dorsal hypohyal bone dorsally .
the portion of the ysl that is outside of the blastoderm margin during epiboly .
cns white matter that is part of the brain stem or spinal cord [ zfin ]  .
a dermal bone that is the upper ,  vertical portion of the preopercle bone .
endochondral bone which is the posterodorsal region of the basioccipital bone .
endochondral bone which is the posterodorsal region of the basioccipital bone .
epipleurals lie below the horizontal septum and are posteroventrally directed .
dermal bone that is a projection present on the inner surface of a branchial arch .
replacement bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates medially with a median skeletal element and laterally with a ceratobranchial cartilage or bone .
laterally flattened haemal spine of an ural vertebra that lacks its arch and supports a few principal caudal lepidotrichia distally .
actinotrichium that is part of the dorsal fin skeleton .
actinotrichium that is part of the anal fin skeleton .
dermal bone that is located anterior ,  ventral or posterior to the eye .
jaw muscle that connects the sphenotic to the metapterygoid and hyomandibula and promotes the elevation / abduction of the suspensorium .
multi - tissue structure which is part of the hypothalamus and consists of caudal and ventral zones ,  and is separated from the dorsal hypothalamic zone by a deep ventral sulcus .
dermal bone placed postero - medially to the supracleithrum and / or cleithrum .
endochondral bone that sutures with the orbitosphenoid anteriorly ,  the frontal bone dorsally and the sphenotic and prootic posteriorly .
the retroarticular is a cartilage bone that forms at the posteroventral tip of meckel's cartilage where the interoperculomandibular ligament attaches  ( 5 .1 mm nl )  .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva .
cranial nerve which enters the brain between cranial nerves vi and vii ;  contains afferents and sensory efferents to the anterior lateral line ganglia .
neural arch and weberian ossicle that is reduced in size relative to other neural arches .
actinotrichium that is part of the caudal fin skeleton .
haemal spine of last hemal arch that is pierced by the haemal canal through which the caudal vessels pass or haemal arch of preural centrum 1 .
endochondral bone that is median and located in the dorsal skeletogenous septum between the cranium and the dorsal fin .
tendon bone that forms in the tendon of the sternohyoid muscles ventral to the anterior end of copula 1 .
actinotrichium that is part of the adipose fin .
bone that is an element associated with a weberian vertebra .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva .
small membrane bone homologous with a cartilage bone in more basal fishes  ( patterson ,  1977 )  .
dermal bone that is a flattened element that supports the branchiostegal membrane .
hindbrain nucleus which is part of the medulla oblongata and is a mechanoreceptive area along with the medial octavolateralis nucleus .
endochondral bone that is bilaterally paired and forms part of the ventral branchial arches .
infraorbital that is the fifth bone of the infraorbital series .
mandibular muscle that inserts along the dorsolateral faces of the opercles .
some or all epineural bones ossify free from the neural arches in most teleosts .
pelvic fin radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
neural arch and weberian ossicle that has been modified in shape relative to other neural arches .
axial bone which is a segmental ossification that forms in the myoseptum .
endochondral bone of the branchial arches located medial to the epibranchials .
cells  ( incompletely cleaved before the ysl forms )  ,  located at the surface just at the rim of the blastodisc ,  external to the deep blastomeres .
actinotrichium that is part of the pectoral fin .
dermal bone of the secondary pectoral girdle that attaches the girdle to the skull .
hindbrain nucleus in the tegmental region of rhombomere 1 .
last caudal vertebra identified as the point at which the caudal vessels bifurcate ,  leaving the protection of the haemal arches of the caudal vertebrae and running laterally to the hypurals .
patches of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium of the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
endochondral bone that articulates with the autosphenotic anteriorly ,  the parietal dorsomedially ,  the prootic ventrally  ( and the intercalar occasionally )  ,  and the epiotic and exoccipital posteriorly .
cranial cartilage which is a small median cartilage located between the premaxillae and anterodorsal to the ethmoid .
vertebra anterior to preural centrum 1 ;  sometimes termed the 'antepenultimate' vertebra .
endochondral bone that sutures with the pterosphenoid anteriorly ,  the prootic ventrally ,  the frontal bone dorso - medially ,  and the pterotic dorso - posteriorly .
dermal bone that articulates dorsally with the posttemporal and ventrally with the cleithrum .
actinotrichium that is part of the pelvic fin .
neural arch that extends along the dorso - lateral surface of the last preural centra and / or ural centra and the notochord  ( arratia & schultze ,  1992 )  .
brain structure which is caudally attached to the rostral medulla oblongata and extends into the tectal ventricle .
connective tissue partitions developing between the myotomes .
a brainstem commissure that contains major crossed descending projections from both tectal lobes .
endochondral bone that is part of the antero - lateral region of the palate .
surface structure which is a tactile structure found in the branchial region .
basipterygium element that is composed of bone tissue .
replacement bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates anteriorly with the anterior ceratohyal .
caudal part of the abducens nucleus that mediates motor function .
postcranial axial cartilage and weberian ossicle that is located dorsal to the scaphium .
part of the anterior commissure which is located immediately ventral to the supracommissural nucleus of area ventralis telencephali .
anal fin distal radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
musculature that is part of the dorsal fin .
rostral part of the abducens nucleus that mediates motor function .
dermal bone that forms the ventro - medial part of the palate and the antero - ventral and ventral wall of the orbit .
dorsal branchial arch bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial cartilage or bone and medially with pharyngobranchial cartilage or bone .
a free ,  modified neural spine of a preural or a ural vertebra that is placed between the last developed neural spine of a preural centrum and the dorsal axis  ( = anterior margin of first uroneural )  of the caudal skeleton  .
dermal canal - bearing bone placed at the dorso - posterior region of the skull roof ,  lying on the posterior region of the pterotic and parietals ,  or the pterotic and epioccipital ,  or on the pterotic ,  epioccipital and occipital bones .
a pair of ha are connect one to each aa1 .
dermal bone that is part of the opercular series .
specialized neuronal receptor cells of the lateral line and acoustico - vestibular systems .
dermal bone that is part of the dorsal or upper border or antero - dorsal border of the orbit .
replacement bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates with the hyomandibula and the quadrate .
tooth that forms on ceratobranchial 5 cartilage or bone .
endochondral bone ,  membrane bone ,  and weberian ossicle that is an element of third vertebra .
process that is the dorsally directed ,  vertical process of the entopterygoid .
a multilayer of deep cells of fairly uniform thickness that forms during early epiboly  ( at dome stage ;  upon conversion of the blastodisc to the blastoderm )  ;  during gastrulation the del  ( deep cell layer )  gives rise to the epiblast and hypoblast .
the portion of the ysl that lies deep to the blastoderm during epiboly .
a section of a pharyngeal arch artery that delivers blood to the gills .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the median fin fold .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
caudal vertebra that is one of the last caudal vertebrae anterior to the ural vertebrae that with its neural and haemal spines supports the procurrent caudal fin rays or lepidotrichia .
paired ,  ventromedially directed processes on the posterior ends of the centra ,  ligamentously joined to the hemal postzygapophyses of the immediately posterior vertebra .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
neuromast that is part of the infraorbital lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the opercular lateral line .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
median fin skeleton supporting the caudal fin .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
endochondral bone that is the anterodorsally oriented process of the third neural arch .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
dorsal fin distal radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
neuromast that is part of the middle lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the posterior lateral line .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
dorsal fin proximal radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present ventral to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of the somite giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
a neuromast that is part of the occipital lateral line .
a neuromast that is part of the supraorbital lateral line .
lateral process ,  spine - like or crest - like ,  at the lateral wall of the haemal arch of the parhypural that serves for insertion of the hypochordal longitudinal muscle .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
somite - derived body wall muscle present dorsal to the horizontal myoseptum .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
medial ventral region of the somite that will form vertebral cartilages .
the paired vessels that run along the lateral walls of the hindbrain and drain into the anterior cardinal veins .
connect the outflow of the aortic arches to the dorsal aorta .
the caudal fin is the most posterior median fin .
basidorsals are bilaterally paired cartilages on the dorsolateral side of the notochord which are replaced by ossified neural arches or dorsal arcocentra .
precursor to mesencephalic artery
this anteriormost portion of the intestine has the most digestive enzymes and the greatest epithelial surface area .
annotation with this anatomy term indicates that a structure was not specified by the author .
an otic sensory epithelium that will develop into the mature macula .
a protuberance in front of the gential pore and behind the vent .
median fin skeleton located on the dorsal surface of the organism .
the dorsal marginal region of the ysl where maternal dorsal determinants localize .
the nem cell cluster lies in a superficial position of the dorsal blastoderm margin encompassing evl cells and one or two layers of underlying deep cells .
tooth row that is the ventralmost row of teeth on ceratobranchial 5 bone .
tooth row that is the mediodorsal row of teeth on ceratobranchial 5 bone ,  located between the dorsal tooth row and ventral tooth row .
tooth row that is the dorsalmost row of teeth on ceratobranchial 5 bone .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the anteriormost tooth in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 3v and anterior to tooth 5v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 1v and anterior to tooth 3v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 2v and anterior to tooth 4v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the anteriormost tooth in the mediodorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 1md and anterior to tooth 3md in the mediodorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the anteriormost tooth in the dorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the dorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the mediodorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 2md and anterior to tooth 4md in the mediodorsal tooth row .
a migrating group of cells originating from the posterior lateral line placode .
scute that is a bony plate that forms in dorsal midline of body margin between the skull and dorsal fin .
median fin that is located posterior to the anus .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 1 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 2 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 5 .
endochondral bone and weberian ossicle that is an element of the fourth vertebra that curves ventrally around the anterior head of the swim bladder .
cartilaginous larval structure dorsal to the four anterior - most vertebrae ,  which forms the connection between neural arches and supraneurals in the weberian apparatus .
a layer of collagen fibrils present in the imature integument in an acellular subepidermal space .
anatomical cluster that consists of the anteriormost vertebrae and associated structures that connect the swim bladder to the inner ear .
vertebra that is part of the weberian apparatus .
supraneural bone located dorsal to vertebra 2 .
supraneural bone that is located dorsal to vertebrae 3 and 4 .
islands of eosinic cells found on the lateroventral surface of the kidney .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with more than one pharyngeal arch in the pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
copula that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with pharyngeal arches 3 - 5 .
copula that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with branchial arches 4 and 5  ( pharyngeal arches 6 - 7 )  .
basibranchial bone that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with branchial arch 1  ( pharyngeal arch 3 )  .
basibranchial bone that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with branchial arch 2  ( pharyngeal arch 4 )  .
basibranchial bone that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with branchial arch 3  ( pharyngeal arch 5 )  .
basibranchial bone that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with branchial arch 4  ( pharyngeal arch 6 )  .
hypobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates with a median skeletal element medially and with a ceratobranchial 1 element laterally .
hypobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates with a median skeletal element medially and with a ceratobranchial 4 element laterally .
hypobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates with a median skeletal element medially and with a ceratobranchial 3 element laterally .
hypobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates with a median skeletal element medially and with a ceratobranchial 2 element laterally .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 1 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial bone that is the most posterior ,  bilaterally paired ventral pharyngeal arch bone .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 4 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 3 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 2 cartilage or bone .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 1 cartilage or bone and medially with pharyngobranchial cartilage or bone .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and located at the articulation of epibranchial 4 cartilage or bone and the posterior tip of ceratobranchial 4 cartilage or bone .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 4 cartilage or bone and medially with pharyngobranchial cartilage or bone .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 2 cartilage or bone and medially with pharyngobranchial cartilage or bone .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 3 cartilage or bone and medially with pharyngobranchial cartilage or bone .
pharyngobranchial bone ,  located medial to the epibranchials and posteriorly adjacent to pharyngobranchial 1 element .
most posterior pharyngobranchial cartilage ,  located medial to the epibranchials .
pharyngobranchial bone ,  located medial to the epibranchials and posteriorly adjacent to pharyngobranchial 2 element .
neural arch that is the second after the neurocranium .
the medial portion of the spinal cord floor plate ,  located adjacent to the notochord .
stage i follicles  ( less than 140 microns )  are primary growth stage .
stage ii follicles  ( 140 - 340 microns )  are cortical alveolus stage .
stage iii  ( 340 - 690 microns )  are vitellogenesis .
fin or limb undergoing the process of regeneration .
tendon bone located on the median side of the lower jaw ,  dorsal to meckel's cartilage and medial to the angular .
endochondral bone that is the median element of the ventral hyoid arch ,  generally lying between the paired ventral hypohyals .
the anterior compartment of the swim bladder is thought to have acoustic resonance properties that play a key role in audition .
the posterior compartment of the swim bladder plays a key role in buoyancy control .
branchiostegal ray that is the anterior - most ray in the adult .
branchiostegal ray that is the third anterior - most ray in the adult .
branchiostegal ray that is the second anterior - most ray in the adult .
the posterior lateral line ganglion develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate the posterior lateral line system .
dorsolateral placode that gives rise to the anterior lateral line .
a tract originating in the epiphysis and fasiculating with the tract of the postoptic commissure .
sublingual that is the single element resulting from the fusion of the sublingual dorsal ossification and sublingual ventral ossification .
supradorsals are small paired nodules of cartilage positioned at the distal ends of neural arches and the proximal end of neural spines  ( arratia et al . ,  2001 )  .
telencephalic nucleus containing the cell bodies of neurons whose axons form the anterior commissure .
the nucleus containing the cell bodies of neurons whose axons form the postoptic commissure .
a zone of delayed differentiation at the midbrainhindbrain boundary .
an unpaired left - sided accessory organ which plays a role in establishing lateral brain left right asymmetry .
basiventrals are bilaterally paired cartilages lateral to the notochord which are replaced by ossified parapophyses or hemal arches .
anatomical cluster that consists of supraneural 2 bone and supraneural 3 bone and their extensions ,  and which is part of the weberian apparatus .
hemal spines are extensions of hemal arches in the ventral skeletogenous septum of the caudal region .
cells that initially are located adjacent to the spinal cord and notochord along that migrate from their initial medial position radially through the myotome to the lateral surface of the somites .
epibranchials 1 - 3 in adults are compound elements formed by the fusion of epibranchial cartilages and the so - called uncinate processes .
a epithelial - mesenchymal boundary that is part of a regenerating fin / limb .
a epithelium that is part of a regenerating fin / limb .
the anteror lateral line ganglia develops from cranial ectodermal placodes and contain sensory neurons that innervate the anterior lateral line system .
parapophysis that is the lateral projections from the first centrum in cyprinids ,  absent in catostomids ,  and absent in characiphysans  ( fink and fink ,  1996 )  .
parapophysis that is lateral projection from the second centrum ,  absent in siluriformes  ( fink and fink ,  1996 )  .
neural arch 3 is expanded and fused to supraneural 3 as part of a neural complex roofing and protecting the neural canal .
neural arch 4 is expanded and fused to supraneural 3 as part of the neural complex .
the parapophysis  +  rib ,  fused to the centrum ,  extends laterally then angles anteroventrally .
posterior to the weberian apparatus ,  otophysan supraneurals form as median ,  unpaired ,  rod -  or platelike elements ,  as in other actinopterygians .
dermal bone that first appears as paired ossifications in the membrane  ( dermis )  dorsolateral to the ethmoid cartilage and anterolateral to the lateral ethmoids ,  later having the appearance of one butterfly - shaped element .
small rounded to egg - shaped cartilage bone that sits in an anterolateral depression on the prevomer .
sesamoid bone located in the premaxillary - ethmoid ligament ,  between the mesethmoid and the premaxilla .
infraorbital that is the second bone of the infraorbital series .
infraorbital that is the third bone of the infraorbital series .
infraorbital that is the fourth bone of the infraorbital series .
endochondral bone that borders that medial edge of the posttemporal fossa .
pelvic fin distal radial 2 element that is composed of bone tissue .
pelvic fin distal radial 3 element that is composed of bone tissue .
pelvic fin distal radial 1 element that is composed of bone tissue .
lepidotrichium which is part of the dorsal fin .
a range of seven to nine rod - like internal median skeletal support structures of the dorsal fin ,  comprised of both bone and cartilage and found between vertebrae 11 and 18 .
a range of twelve to fourteen rod - like internal median skeletal support structures of the anal fin ,  comprised of both bone and cartilage and found between vertebrae 14 and 21 .
lepidotrichium which is part of the anal fin .
a duct connecting the esophagus to the posterior chamber of the swim bladder .
sclerotic bone that is located anterior to the eye .
sclerotic bone that is located posterior to the eye .
the constriction between the anterior and posterior chambers of the swim bladder .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the pelvic fin .
a plate - like chondrogenic condensation within the pectoral fin ,  which subdivides into individual radials by decomposition of extracellular matrix in the inter - radial mesenchyme  ( grandel and schulte - merker ,  1998 )  .
cartilage which is part of the axial skeleton .
the anterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  situated between the eye and the ear ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the anterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
the anterior lateral line consists of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  located superficially on the skin or just under the skin in fluid - filled canals on the head of all fishes and most amphibians .
the posterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  situated behind the ear ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the posterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
neuromast that is part of the anterior lateral line .
cells  ( completely cleaved )  ,  located underneath the superficial blastomeres and internal to the marginal blastomeres .
anatomical cluster consisting of the paired sublingual dorsal ossification and sublingual ventral ossification .
sublingual that is the dorsal element paired with the sublingual ventral ossification .
sublingual that is the ventral element paired with the sublingual dorsal ossification .
nerve fibers originating from the dorsal anterior lateral line ganglion .
nerve fibers originating from the ventral anterior lateral line ganglion .
nerve fibers originating from the middle lateral line ganglion .
the middle lateral line ganglion develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate the middle lateral line .
cells  ( completely cleaved )  ,  located at the surface of the blastodisc ,  above the deep blastomeres .
bilaterally paired medial bar of cartilage formed at midorbit through medial chondrification from triangles of cartilage that later form the junction of the taeniae marginales anterior ,  taeniae marginales posterior and the epiphyseal bar .
cranial cartilage which is a paired anterodorsal projection of the posterior end of the parachordal cartilage .
cartilage bar  ( bilaterally paired )  that grows anteroventrally from the epiphyseal bar to join the anterolatera1 edge of the ethmoid plate .
cartilage formed via medial fusion between bilaterally paired trabecula crani .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates dorsally with the hyosymplectic cartilage or the articulation of the hyomandibula and symplectic .
cartilage bar  ( bilaterally paired )  that is first visible as an anterior extension of the auditory capsule .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that forms the largest skeletal element of the ventral branchial arches .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 2 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 3 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 4 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 1 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is the most posterior ,  bilaterally paired ventral pharyngeal arch cartilage .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates medially with a median skeletal element and laterally with a ceratobranchial cartilage or bone .
hypobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 4 cartilage or bone .
hypobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 1 cartilage or bone .
hypobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 2 cartilage or bone .
hypobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 3 cartilage or bone .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial cartilage or bone .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 1 cartilage or bone .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 3 cartilage or bone .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 2 cartilage or bone .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 4 cartilage or bone .
sublingual cartilage that is the dorsal element paired with the sublingual ventral cartilage .
paired cartilages that project medially from the medial tips of epibranchials .
pharyngobranchial cartilage ,  located medial to the epibranchials and posteriorly adjacent to pharyngobranchial 2 element .
pharyngobranchial cartilage ,  located medial to the epibranchials and posteriorly adjacent to pharyngobranchial 1 element .
pectoral fin cartilage that is part of the embryonic primary pectoral girdle from which the mesocoracoid bone will ossify endochondrally .
small cartilage that forms at the posterior edge of the basipterygium .
bilaterally paired small ,  rodlike cartilages on the ventral surface of the abdomen  ( present at 7 .9 mm )  .
small cartilage that forms at the posterior and medial edge of the basipterygium .
small cartilage with a long posterior process and a shorter lateral one that forms at the posterior edge of the basipterygium ,  between radial cartilages 1 and 2 .
small cartilage that forms at the posterior and lateral edge of the basipterygium .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is the median cartilage of the ventral hyoid arch ,  generally lying between the paired ventral hypohyals .
sublingual cartilage that is the ventral element paired with the sublingual dorsal cartilage .
neural spine that is associated with the fourth vertebra .
scute that is a bony plate that forms in the midline of ventral body margin between pectoral girdle and anal fin .
lepidotrichium which is part of the caudal fin .
lepidotrichium which is part of the pectoral fin ,  forming the pectoral fin skeleton and articulating with the pectoral radials .
lepidotrichium which is part of the pelvic fin .
dermal bone that is rod - like ,  formed and usually contained in a fin membrane ,  and jointed to or adjacent to distal radials .
process of the premaxilla that extends posteriorly and overlays the mesethmoid .
in cypriniforms the anterior portion of the palatine has a dorsomedial process which abuts against the mesethmoid .
ural vertebra that is the second vertebra posterior to preural centrum 1 .
a vertebral centrum that is located immediately posterior to ural centrum 1 .
urostyle that is the result of fusion of preural centrum 1 with the first ural centrum  ( of polyural terminology )  .
caudal fin lepidotrichium that form part of the anterior dorsal and ventral series of lepidotrichia of the caudal fin that may be associated with a neural spine or an epural or an uroneural  ( dorsal series )  and with a haemal spine of a preural vertebra  ( ventral series )  .
caudal fin lepidotrichium that is adjacent to a branched ray .
pectoral fin radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
pectoral fin proximal radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
pectoral fin distal radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
the propterygium is the lateralmost or anteriormost basal cartilage that originates from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
endochondral bone ,  membrane bone ,  and weberian ossicle that is located dorsal to the scaphium .
surface structure that is the dorsal portion of the caudal fin .
surface structure that is the ventral portion of the caudal fin .
process that is the upper portion of the maxilla that rests on the posterior surface of the lateral portion of the premaxilla .
lateral bony projection proximal to lateral ethmoid - palatine joint ,  and located anterior to orbital region and posterior to olfactory region .
scute that is a median bony plate forming anterior to procurrent caudal fin rays .
process that is the paired process of the parasphenoid that articulates with the suspensorium .
joint that articulates the autopalatine and lateral ethmoid and bones .
bony projection that is part of the pharyngobranchial 2 bone .
an endochondral bone that is the dorsally - oriented bony extension of the quadrate ,  extending from the anterior portion of the bone .
process that is the posterior extension of the quadrate and located dorsal to the quadrate ventral process .
multi - tissue structure that is a fluid - filled canal in the integument and usually dermal bones ,  and contains one or more neuromast organs .
dorsal fin middle radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
anal fin middle radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
process of the sphenotic .the process may project antero - laterally or laterally or ventro - laterally and it has different development in different fish groups .
superficial and lateral bony projection anterior to orbital region .
sensory canal on trunk which is posterior to the pectoral girdle and often reaching to or onto the caudal fin .
sensory canal between and in close proximity to the trunk sensory canal and anteriorly with the otic and preoperculo - mandibular sensory canals .
anatomical cluster that consists of a bulla formed by the exoccipital and basioccipital bones ,  and surrounds the lagena .
multi - tissue structure composed of enameloid and dentine surrounding a pulp cavity ,  and found either attached to dermal bone or freely in the skin .
odontode that is attached to dermal bone .
odontode that is attached to the skin and without association to dermal bone .
tooth that is attached to the premaxilla .
sensory canal between and in close proximity posteriorly with the post - otic and preoperculo - mandibular sensory canals ,  and anteriorly with the supraorbital and infraorbital sensory canals .
sensory canal that crosses over the dorsal midline and in close proximity to the contralateral post - otic sensory canals .
tooth that is attached to the ectopterygoid bone .
tooth that is attached to the entopterygoid bone .
most anterior pharyngobranchial cartilage ,  located medial to the epibranchials .
most anterior pharyngobranchial bone ,  located medial to the epibranchials .
most posterior pharyngobranchial bone ,  located medial to the epibranchials .
perichordal bone that surrounds the anterior tip of the notochord .
dermal bone of the pharyngeal arches usually bearing teeth .
pharyngeal tooth plate that lies dorsal to the basihyal cartilage or bone .
tooth that is attached to the basihyal tooth plate .
pharyngeal tooth plate that lies ventral to pharyngobranchial 2 bone .
tooth that is attached to the pharyngobranchial 2 tooth plate .
pharyngeal tooth plate that lies ventral to pharyngobranchial 3 bone .
tooth that is part of the pharyngobranchial 3 tooth plate .
pharyngeal tooth plate that lies ventral to pharyngobranchial 4 ,  and located anterior to upper pharyngeal 5 tooth plate .
tooth that is attached to the upper pharyngeal 4 tooth plate .
pharyngeal toothplate that lies ventral to pharyngobranchial 4 ,  and located posterior to upper pharyngeal 4 tooth plate .
tooth that is attached to the upper pharyngeal 5 tooth plate .
pharyngeal tooth plate that lies ventral to pharyngobranchials 3 and 4 .
tooth that is attached to the upper pharyngeal tooth plate .
tooth that is part of the basibranchial tooth plate .
pharyngeal tooth plate that lies dorsal to basibranchials 1 - 3 .
pharyngeal tooth plate that lies dorsal to basibranchial 4 bone .
tooth that is attached to the basibranchial 4 tooth plate .
pharyngeal tooth plate that lies dorsal to basibranchial 2 bone .
tooth that is attached to the basibranchial 2 tooth plate .
neural arch on the urostyle .
anal fin radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
infraorbital that is the sixth bone of the infraorbital series .
bony projection that extends from the mesethmoid anteriorly .
joint that articulates the mesethmoid and premaxilla .
joint that articulates the mesethmoid and nasal .
joint that articulates the mesethmoid and frontal .
joint that articulates the mesethmoid and lateral ethmoid .
joint that articulates the mesethmoid and vomer .
bony projection that is mesially - directed and off the anteromedial corner of each mesethmoid cornu .
ligament that is attached to supracleithrum and basioccipital .
membrane bone that is fused to supracleithrum and is jointed to basioccipital and exoccipital .
lateral ethmoid - ectopterygoid ligament is a ligament that connects the lateral ethmoid to the ectopterygoid .
the bony shelf above orbit is an anatomical cluster formed by the dorsolateral portions of the lateral ethmoid ,  frontal and sphenotic bones that forms the dorsal margin of the orbit .
interopercular - mandibular ligament is a ligament that connects the interopercle to an element of the lower jaw ,  typically the retroarticular .
cartilage that is separate from and anterior to the pterygoquadrate cartilage .
pterygoquadrate cartilage  -  cartilage that is separate from and posterior to the palatine cartilage .
anterior cartilage of palatine  -  cartilage that caps the anterior end of the autopalatine bone .
posterior cartilage of palatine  -  cartilage that caps the posterior end of the autopalatine bone .
dermal bone that is located in the middle of the upper jaw ,  independently formed by fusion of tooth bases attached to soft tissue in the middle portion of the upper lip .
muscle located in the lateral region of the cheek ,  linking the lateral surface of opercle with the posterolateral margin of the suspensorium  ( usually the preopercle )  .
ligament that links the tip of the postcleithral process of the cleithrum with either the vertebral column  ( at the vertebral parapophysis or rib of the sixth vertebra )  or with the soft tissue around the postcleithral region .
pharyngeal arch cartilage ,  elongate and usually bifurcated posteriorly ,  located anteriorly on the upper branchial arches ,  attached to the anterior tips of the first infrapharyngobranchials .
pharyngeal arch cartilage present on the dorsal surface of the middle portion of the upper branchial arches ,  dorsal to the point of contact between the second and third infrapharyngobranchials .
endochondral bone ,  which may be ossified or not in adults ,  located immediately anteriorly to the pterygiophore series of the anal fin .
endochondral bone located posterior to the last anal fin pterygiophore .
endochondral bone located posterior to the last dorsal fin pterygiophore .
dermal bone that is located anterior to the caudal fin procurrent rays .
basibranchial bone that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with branchial arch 5  ( pharyngeal arch 7 )  .
infraorbital that is the seventh bone of the infraorbital series .
infraorbital that is the eighth bone of the infraorbital series .
infraorbital that is the ninth bone of the infraorbital series .
infraorbital that is the tenth bone of the infraorbital series .
infraorbital that is the eleventh bone of the infraorbital series .
infraorbital that is the twelfth bone of the infraorbital series .
infraorbital that is the last bone of the infraorbital series ,  carrying the infraorbital canal ,  and sometimes also the supraorbital ,  temporal ,  and / or preopercular canals .
anatomical cluster that is the series of dermal bones surrounding the orbit and associated with the infraorbital sensory canal .
joint that articulates the opercle and interopercle .
joint that articulates the frontal and pterotic .
caudal principal ray that is the dorsalmost caudal principal ray of the caudal fin .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 1 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 2 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 3 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 4 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 5 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 6 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 7 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 8 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 9 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 10 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 11 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 12 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 13 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 14 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 15 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 16 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 17 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 18 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 4 .
bony projection that is the posterolaterally oriented projection on the ventral region of the mesethmoid .
process that is the posteriorly oriented ,  paired projection of the basipterygium .
foramen that is located in the scapula .
foramen that is located in the coracoid .
fontanel that is located between the contralateral frontals and anterior to the epiphyseal bar .
fontanel that is located posterior to the epiphyseal bar ,  and typically located between the contralateral frontals and parietals  ( if present )  and bordered posteriorly by the supraoccipital .
foramen through which branches of cranial nerves v  ( trigeminal )  and vii  ( facial )  exit .
foramen through which cranial nerve viii  ( auditory )  exits .
anatomical space within a bone in which teeth develop .
replacement tooth trench that is located in the premaxilla .
replacement tooth trench that is located in the dentary .
bony projection located on the anteroventral region of the mesethmoid which articulates with the premaxilla .
foramen through which the superficial ophthalmic nerve passes .
joint that articulates the dentary and anguloarticular .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the sixth centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the fifth centrum .
the pre - narial cartilage is a cartilage that is located anterior to the anterior naris .
fossa where the exoccipital forms the medial portion and the epioccipital forms the lateral margin .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium 1 is the leading or marginal ray of the fin and articulates with the scapula .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the second most anterior pectoral ray that it is usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the third most anterior pectoral ray that it is usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the fourth most anterior pectoral ray that it is usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the fifth most anterior pectoral ray that it is usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the sixth most anterior pectoral ray that it is usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the seventh most anterior pectoral ray that it is usually branched and segmented .
bilaterally paired dorsal hyoid arch muscle that retracts the maxillary barbel .
process that is part of the supraoccipital .
joint that articulates autopalatine and vomer bones .
pectoral - fin lepidotrichium 1 with mostly co - ossified and unsegmented hemitrichia that form a stiff and usually thick shaft and enlarged basal processes that moveably articulate with the pectoral girdle .
dermal bone that is located near the lateral margin of the pelvic fin ,  and lateral to pelvic - fin lepidotrichium 1 .
dorsal - fin lepidotrichium 1 with co - ossified and unsegmented hemitrichia that form a stiff shaft and enlarged base that moveably articulates with first  ( anteriormost )  dorsal - fin pterygiophore .
dorsal - fin lepidotrichium 2 with co - ossified and unsegmented hemitrichia that form a stiff shaft and enlarged base that moveably articulates with second dorsal - fin pterygiophore .
bony projection that is part of the pharyngobranchial 3 .
bony projection that is part of the pharyngobranchial 4 .
joint that articulates orbitosphenoid and prootic bones .
foramen in the anterior ceratohyal for passage of the hyoidean artery .
epibranchial uncinate process that is part of epibranchial 2 bone .
epibranchial uncinate process that is part of epibranchial 1 bone .
intermuscular bone that articulates with the vertebral centrum .
intracranial space formed by confluence of supraorbital ,  infraorbital ,  preopercular and temporal sensory canals .
modified epicentral intermuscular bone that connects the back of the skull with the pectoral girdle .
joint that articulates quadrate and hyomandibula bones .
joint that articulates quadrate and metapterygoid bones .
foramen for the passage of the olfactory nerve or cranial nerve 1 .
endochondral bone that is located posterior to the dentary ,  medial to the angular and antero - dorsal to the retroarticular forming the lower jaw .
an anterior extension of the swimbladder that passes through a foramen in the exoccipital ;  part of the otophysic connection between swimbladder and inner ear .
fossa that is a concavity on the dorsolateral surface of the skull roof found at least partially on the epiotic  ( epioccipital )  .
foramen through which cranial nerve vii  ( facial )  exits .
foramen through which cranial nerve v  ( trigeminal )  exits .
sensory canal anterior to and in close proximity to the otic and infraorbital sensory canals .
sensory canal lateral or ventral to and in close proximity to the otic and supraorbital sensory canals at their union .
sensory canal lateral or ventral to and in close proximity to the otic and post - otic sensory canals at their union .
sensory canal lateral or ventral to and in close proximity with the otic and post - otic sensory canals at their union ,  and anteroventrally with the mandibular sensory canal .
sensory canal anterior and ventral to and in close proximity with the preoperculo - mandibular sensory canal .
dermal bone that is a bony expansion in the integument anterior to or flanking the dorsal fin that is part of and at the distal end of a supraneural or dorsal fin proximal radial .
nuchal plate that is unpaired and part of the supraneural and in contact ,  or not ,  with the supraoccipital crest anteriorly and middle nuchal plate posteriorly .
nuchal plate that is unpaired and part of dorsal fin proximal radial 1 and usually in contact with the anterior nuchal plate and paired posterior nuchal plates .
dorsal fin proximal radial 1 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 2 element that is composed of bone tissue .
paired nuchal plate that is part of dorsal fin proximal radial 2 and usually in contact with the middle nuchal plate .
portion of tissue that is part of the caudal fin .
epibranchial uncinate process that is part of epibranchial 3 bone .
epibranchial uncinate process that is part of epibranchial 4 bone .
scale that is associated with the lateral line sensory canal .
process that is part of the urohyal ;  it is the posterolaterally directed process located on the ventrolateral margin of urohyal .
process that is part of the urohyal ;  it is the posterodorsally directed and median process located on the dorsal margin of the urohyal .
ligament that connects the premaxilla to the maxilla .
ligament that connects the maxilla with the lower jaw .
caudal procurrent ray that forms part of the anterior dorsal series of lepidotrichia of the caudal fin and may be associated with a neural spine or a epural or a uroneural .
caudal procurrent ray that forms part of the anterior ventral series of lepidotrichia of the caudal fin that may be associated with a neural spine or a epural or an uroneural  ( dorsal series )  and with a hemal spine of a preural vertebra  ( ventral series )  .
joint that articulates the pterosphenoid and orbitosphenoid .
joint that articulates the parasphenoid and basioccipital .
tooth row that is on the premaxilla .
anatomical point that is the apex of a projection or anything long and tapered ;  can be bony or cartilage
joint that articulates the interhyal and epihyal bones ,  or interhyal and ceratohyal cartilages .
joint that articulates the epihyal and ceratohyal bones .
joint that articulates the ceratohyal and dorsal hypohyal bones .
joint that articulates the ceratohyal and ventral hypohyal bones .
joint that articulates the dorsal hypohyal and ventral hypohyal bones .
joint that articulates the contralateral ventral hypohyal bones or the contralateral ceratobranchial cartilages .
joint that articulates the dorsal hypohyal and urohyal bones .
joint that articulates the ventral hypohyal and urohyal bones .
joint that articulates the epihyal and branchiostegal ray bones .
joint that articulates the ceratohyal and branchiostegal ray bones .
postcleithrum that anteriorly articulates with the supracleithrum and / or the cleithrum of the pectoral girdle ;  most dorsal element in a series of postcleithra .
postcleithrum that articulates dorsally with postcleithrum 1 ,  ventrally with postcleithrum 3 ,  and anteriorly with cleithrum .
postcleithrum that articulates dorsally with postcleithrum 2 and ,  sometimes ,  anteriorly with cleithrum .
process on the dorso - posterior margin of the hyomandibula cartilage or bone that articulates with a depression on the antero - dorsal margin of the opercle .
gill ray is a slender ,  usually rod - like cartilage within a gill filament and ligamentously tied to its associated pharyngeal arch bone or cartilage .
an artery that passes along the ventral portions of the hyoid arch ;  supplies oxygenated blood to the pseudobranch .
a pharyngobranchial bone that articulates with the neurocranium dorsally and epibranchial 1 and pharyngobranchial 2 ventrally ;  lies dorsal to other elements of the dorsal portions of the branchial arches .
pharyngeal tooth plate that lies ventral to pharyngobranchial 1 bone .
joint that articulates the epibranchial 4 cartilage or bone and upper pharyngeal toothplate .
joint that articulates the epibranchial 3 cartilage or bone and pharyngobranchial 3 cartilage or bone .
joint that articulates the epibranchial 3 cartilage or bone and pharyngobranchial 4 cartilage or bone .
joint that articulates the left and right hypobranchial 3 cartilages or bones .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with branchial arch 1  ( pharyngeal arch 3 )  .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with branchial arch 4  ( pharyngeal arch 6 )  .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with branchial arch 5  ( pharyngeal arch 7 )  .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is ventral ,  median ,  and at or posterior to the juncture of the bilaterally paired ceratobranchial 5 cartilage or bone .
postcranial axial cartilage located dorsal to vertebra 2 .
postcranial axial cartilage located dorsal to vertebrae 3 and 4 .
anatomical cluster that consists of the weberian ossicles .
lateral line system on trunk .
lateral line system on head and pectoral girdle .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with branchial arch 2  ( pharyngeal arch 4 )  .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with branchial arch 3  ( pharyngeal arch 5 )  .
neural arch that is the anteriormost neural arch .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the second centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the first centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the third centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the fourth centrum .
neural arch that is located posterior to the neurocranium and anterior to neural arch 1 .
neural spine that is associated with the first vertebra .
neural spine that is associated with the second vertebra .
neural spine that is associated with the third vertebra .
supraneural bone located dorsal to vertebra 1 .
postcranial axial cartilage located dorsal to vertebra 1 .
skeletal element that is bilaterally paired and articulates dorsally with the hyosymplectic cartilage or the articulation of the hyomandibula and symplectic .
skeletal element that is bilaterally paired and articulates medially with a median skeletal element and laterally with a ceratobranchial element .
skeletal element that is ventral ,  bilaterally paired and articulates with a median skeletal element medially and with a ceratobranchial 1 element laterally .
skeletal element that is ventral ,  bilaterally paired and articulates with a median skeletal element medially and with a ceratobranchial 2 element laterally .
skeletal element that is ventral ,  bilaterally paired and articulates with a median skeletal element medially and with a ceratobranchial 3 element laterally .
skeletal element that is ventral ,  bilaterally paired and articulates with a median skeletal element medially and with a ceratobranchial 4 element laterally .
skeletal element that is bilaterally paired and forms part of the ventral branchial arches .
skeletal element that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial element .
skeletal element of the branchial arches located medial to the epibranchials .
most anterior pharyngobranchial element ,  located medial to the epibranchials .
pharyngobranchial element ,  located medial to the epibranchials and posteriorly adjacent to pharyngobranchial 1 element .
pharyngobranchial element ,  located medial to the epibranchials and posteriorly adjacent to pharyngobranchial 2 element .
most posterior pharyngobranchial element ,  located medial to the epibranchials .
endochondral element that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with a single pharyngeal arch in the pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
skeletal element that is median and associated with branchial arch 1 .
skeletal element that is median and associated with branchial arch 2 .
skeletal element that is median and associated with branchial arch 3 .
skeletal element that is median and associated with branchial arch 4 .
skeletal element that is median and associated with branchial arch 5 .
anatomical structure that is formed as a hiatus in the muscles covering the anterior chamber of the swim bladder in the area of ribs 5 and 6 .
surface structure that is a fleshy membrane covering part of the eye .
joint between the left and right frontal bone .
canal that houses the dorsal aorta .
foramina that allow passage of occipital arteries .
foramen for passage of nerve supplying otic lateral line .
fossa or chamber on posterior portion of orbital region of neurocranium that serves as attachment site for posterior extrinsic eye muscles .
fossa or chamber on anterior portion of orbital region of neurocranium that serves as attachment site for anterior extrinsic eye musculature .
fossa of opercle that articulates with hyomandibular condyle for opercle .
process of the epioccipital that extends posteriorly ,  is laminar in form and is usually attached to weberian apparatus .
dermal bone that is located lateral to vomer off midline of palate .
scute that is an elongated plate associated with a ligament running between posterior nuchal plate and rib on vertebra 6 .
dermal bone that is ring - shaped or cylindrical and surrounds a sensory canal .
sensory canal that is a side branch between a sensory canal proximally and a pore at its distal end .
dermal bone that is located on midline of snout in skin above mesethmoid and lateral ethmoid bones .
lip that is expanded to form a broad ,  rounded cup around the mouth .
barbel that is attached to the anterior rim of the posterior nostril .
barbel that is associated with the anterior nostril .
barbel that is attached to the distal end of the maxilla and that originates on the side of the mouth .
joint that articulates the left and right basipterygium cartilage or bone .
joint between the centra ,  and sometimes the neural arches or parapophyses of vertebra 4 and vertebra 5 .
joint that articulates the orbitosphenoid cartilage or bone and lateral ethmoid cartilage or bone .
joint that articulates the autopalatine cartilage or bone and maxilla .
ligament that connects the metapterygoid to the autopalatine .
lateral ethmoid - autopalatine ligament is a ligament that connects the lateral ethmoid to the autopalatine .
mesethmoid - premaxillary ligament is a ligament that connects the mesethmoid to the premaxilla .
mesethmoid - maxillary ligament is a ligament that connects the mesethmoid to the maxilla .
joint that articulates the hyomandibular cartilage or bone and otic region cartilage or sphenotic bone ,  and often pterotic bone and prootic bone .
process that is part of the anal fin lepidotrichium .
process that is part of the caudal fin lepidotrichium .
joint that articulates the left and right premaxillary bones .
surface structure that is a portion of skin that projects or hangs from the body .
tooth row that is on the dentary .
pharyngeal cartilage that is part of and at the proximal end of epibranchial 1 bone ,  and that usually articulates with a pharyngobranchial element .
pharyngeal cartilage that is part of and at the proximal end of epibranchial 2 bone ,  and that usually articulates with a pharyngobranchial element .
pharynbeal cartilage that is part of and at the distal end of ceratobranchial 3 bone ,  and that usually articulates with epibranchial 3 element .
pharyngeal cartilage that is part of and at the proximal end of ceratobranchial 4 bone ,  and that usually articulates with basibranchial 4 element .
pharyngeal cartilage that is part of and at the distal end of ceratobranchial 4 bone ,  and that usually articulates with epibranchial 4 element .
pharyngeal cartilage that is part of and at the distal end of ceratobranchial 5 bone .
pharyngeal cartilage that is part of and at the distal end of hypobranchial 1 bone ,  and that usually articulates with ceratobranchial 1 element .
pharyngeal cartilage that is part of and at the distal end of hypobranchial 2 bone ,  and that usually articulates with ceratobranchial 2 element .
pharyngeal cartilage that is part of and at the distal end of epibranchial bone 3 uncinate process .
pharyngeal cartilage that is part of and at the distal end of epibranchial bone 4 uncinate process .
mental barbel that originates on the chin ,  in a posterolateral position relative to the inner mental barbel .
mental barbel that originates on the chin ,  in an anteromedial position relative to the outer mental barbel .
parapophysis that is the lateral projection from the fourth centrum .
ligament that connects one rib to another .
anatomical cluster composed of one or more bones and tissue that separates the orbits .
surface structure that is a portion of the integument thickened relative to surrounding area .
tooth row that is on the maxilla .
joint that articulates the hyomandibula bone and metapterygoid bone .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 5 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 6 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 7 .
centrum that is part of vertebra 1 .
centrum that is part of vertebra 2 .
centrum that is part of vertebra 3 .
centrum that is part of vertebra 4 .
centrum that is part of vertebra 5 .
centrum that is part of vertebra 6 .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is a spherical mass of cartilage located between the mandibular symphysis and ventral hyoid arch .
anatomical cluster that is an outgrowth of the soft tissue around the dorsolateral corner of a branchial arch that is internally supported by a core of rigid cartilage - like tissue .
membrane bone extending between a transverse process of the second proximal dorsal - fin radial and the pleural rib of the sixth vertebra .
anal fin lepidotrichium that is distally branched .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that is distally branched and segmented .
anatomical cluster that consists of adjacent gill rakers constituting a row and is part of a ceratobranchial or epibranchial element of the branchial arches .
surface structure that is a small ,  fleshy protuberance .
compound dermal and endochondral bone that results from the fusion of the paired dermal parietal bones and the median endochondral supraoccipital .
dermal bone that results from the fusion of the dermal posttemporal and the dermal supracleithrum .
process arising from the posterior or postero - dorsal margin of the cleithrum dorsally adjacent to the insertion of the pectoral fin .
process that is tooth - like or thorn - like and arising from the posteriorly - facing margin of the abducted pectoral spine .
process that is tooth -  or thorn - like and arising from the anteriorly - facing margin of the abducted pectoral spine .
process that is retrorse ,  thorn - like and arising from the anteriorly - facing margin of the abducted pectoral spine .
process that is tooth or thorn - like and arising from the posteriorly - facing margin of the abducted dorsal - fin spine 2 .
process that is tooth -  or thorn - like and arising from the anteriorly - facing margin of the abducted dorsal - fin spine 2 .
dermal bone that is ventral to the preopercle and bears a portion of the preopercular sensory canal .
pore that is located ventral to the posterior cleithral process and medial to the pectoral fin .
supraneural dorsal to neural spine 4 .
neural lamina is a median ,  vertical ridge or bony septum between neural spine 3 and neural spine 4 on the dorsal side of the weberian vertebra .
pharyngeal cartilage that caps the medial margin of the palatine at the autopalatine - lateral ethmoid joint .
nerve that is a branch of cranial nerve vii that passes through or around the suspensorium to innervate muscles and sensory organs on or near pharyngeal arch 2 .
fontanel within the frontal bone near the frontal - sphenotic joint .
foramen located on the dentary for passage of the mandibular nerve .
process that is the dorsally directed portion of ceratobranchial 5 bone .
process that is the dorsally directed portion of ceratobranchial 5 cartilage .
dermal bone of upper pharyngeal arches associated with pharyngobranchial bones or cartilages ,  usually bearing teeth .
pharyngeal tooth plate that lies ventral to pharyngobranchial 4 .
process that is the anterior and medially directed portion of ceratobranchial 5 bone part of ceratobranchial 5 bone .
process that is the anterior and medially directed portion of ceratobranchial 5 cartilage .
bone that is a fusion of the pterotic ,  posttemporal ,  and supracleithrum bones .
dermal bone bearing teeth located between the distal end of the premaxilla and the middle of the maxilla .
process that is the lateral projection of the parasphenoid arising and articulating with the more dorsal portions of the neurocranium ,  usually at the level of the prootic .
dermal bone of the dorsal surface of the olfactory region .
endochondral bone found between the preethmoid and maxilla .
barbel that originates on the chin .
pectoral fin proximal radial 1 element that is composed of bone tissue .
pectoral fin proximal radial 2 element that is composed of bone tissue .
pectoral fin proximal radial 3 element that is composed of bone tissue .
pectoral fin proximal radial 4 element that is composed of bone tissue .
process on the ventral surface of the horizontal limb of the coracoid ,  close to and parallel to the coracoid - cleithrum joint .
foramen in the bone or cartilage comprising the anterior wall of the orbit ,  and through which passes at least the deep ophthalmic branch of cranial nerve v  ( trigeminal )  .
joint that articulates the lateral ethmoid and frontal .
joint that articulates the prootic and pterosphenoid .
joint that articulates the prootic and exoccipital .
joint that articulates the basioccipital and exoccipital .
fossa located on the neurocranium that is formed from portions of the sphenotic ,  frontal and pterotic bones .
joint between the right and left coracoid bones of the pectoral girdle .
parapophysis that is the lateral projection from the sixth centrum .
parapophysis that is the lateral projection from the fifth centrum .
process that arises and projects posterolaterally from parapophysis 4 .
process that arises and projects anterolaterally from parapophysis 4 .
epithelial cell that produces a chemical that triggers antipredator behavior .
chemical substance that functions as an alarm signal .
fine ridge on surface of scale ,  often parallel to the circumference of scale .
shallow area that exists on the prootic .
dermal bone that is located on or subjacent to the surface anywhere on the body and that is not part of the general complement of scales ,  dermal bone of the dermatocranium ,  postcranial axial skeleton or paired fin skeleton .
joint between the centra ,  and sometimes the neural arches or parapophyses .
joint between the centra ,  and sometimes the neural arches or parapophyses of vertebra 6 and vertebra 7 .
anatomical space that is the external opening of a gill slit connecting the pharyngeal cavity to the exterior .
centrum that is the fusion of centra 2 - 4 .
vertebra that is positioned between the vertebra immediately anterior to the first dorsal - fin pterygiophore to the anteriormost vertebra .
caudal fin lepidotrichium that is distally branched .
anatomical cluster that consists of more than one type of nuchal plate in an individual .
uroneural that is the anteriormost element of the uroneural series .
a vertebral centrum that is immediately posterior to preural vertebra 1 .
opening in the neurocranium to allow communication between the swimbladder and the inner ear .
anatomical cluster including hypural 3 and more dorsal hypurals that supports the dorsal series of principal caudal lepidotrichia or rays .
anatomical cluster including hypurals 1 and 2 that supports part of the ventral principal caudal lepidotrichia or rays and that separates from the dorsal hypural set through the hypural diastema .
process that is cartilaginous and arises from the distal margin or tip of posterior process of basipterygium and projects posteriorly .
process that is bony and arises from anteromedial corner of basipterygium and projects anteriorly or anteromedially .
process that is cartilaginous and arises from the distal tip of internal anterior process of basipterygium .
process that is bony and arises from anterior margin of basipterygium between internal anterior process of basipterygium and external anterior process of basipterygium .
process that is cartilaginous and arises from the distal tip of middle anterior process of basipterygium .
process that is bony and arises from anterolateral corner of basipterygium and projects anteriorly or anteromedially .
process that is cartilaginous and arises from the distal tip of external anterior process of basipterygium .
process that is bony and arises from lateral margin of basipterygium lateral to pelvic fin lepidotrichium 1 and projects laterally or anterolaterally .
bone that is attached or adjacent to lateral margin of basipterygium and anterior to pelvic fin lepidotrichium 1 .
perichondrally ossified bone that results from the fusion of two or more hypurals and support a variable number of principal caudal lepidotrichia .
larval stage in some teleosts before metomorphosis .
process that is a ventral projection from the supraoccipital that extends between the exoccipitals to the dorsal margin of the foramen magnum .
fulcrum that is large ,  laterally expanded ,  paired or unpaired ,  scale - like ,  and that precedes the base of a fin .
fulcrum that is a small ,  paired dermal structure associated with the marginal ,  leading rays of paired and / or unpaired fins .
postero - dorsal process of preural vertebra 1 or postero - dorsal process of the compound terminal centrum .
a vertebral centrum that is posterior to preural vertebra 1 and consequently the most posterior vertebral centra .
anatomical cluster consisting of only a bony element or a combination of a bony element and one or more scales ,  or only modified scales ,  which lies in a fin fold at the base of the uppermost ray .
pectoral axillary process is an elongate structure formed by one or more additional postcleithra or modified scales or a combination of both ,  that is firmly attached to a skin fold above the articular condyle of the uppermost pectoral fin ray or lepidotrichium 1 .
a small bone articulating distally with the haemal arch or a short haemal spine .
dermal bone located on the ventral surface of the skull and positioned between the two rami of the lower jaw .
cartilage associated with hypurals .
median chondrified cartilage bound to premaxillary ascending process by a rostro - premaxilla ligament .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is the anteriormost pterygiophore of the dorsal fin .
a third opening of the posttemporal fossa posteriorly located relative to the fossa .
anatomical cluster that consists of more than one bony plate in an individual .
anatomical cluster that consists of more than one sensory canal pore .
anatomical cluster that consists of more than one lateral line scale .
anatomical cluster that consists of the branchiostegal rays within an individual .
anatomical cluster that consists of the epibranchial elements within an individual .
anatomical cluster that consists of the ceratobranchial elements within an individual .
anatomical structure located in the hindbrain that receives primary electroreceptor input .
anatomical structure that is a subdivision of the cerebellum ;  it is the location of some lateral line nerve synapses .
anatomical structure that consists of two neuron types: pacemaker cells and relay cells .
papilla that is part of the mouth .
multi - tissue structure that is a transient outgrowth of tissue on skin brooding fish that acts as an attachment site for embryos .
organ that functions in egg deposition .
erosion channel that radiates out from the growth center  ( focus )  of the scale across and through the circuli .
scale that forms part of the posterior border of the caudal - fin organ .
surface structure that is a small protuberance on the surface of the body .
organ that consists of a pouch located on the ventral caudal - fin lobe ,  opening posteriorly ,  and composed of glandular tissue .
anatomical cluster that consists of thickened caudal - fin rays modified into a pumping mechanism associated with the caudal - fin organ .
intermuscular bone that is located in the dorsal and ventral forward flexures of the myoseptum .
multi - tissue structure that is a cartilaginous or collagenous bar supporting the caudal appendage .
multi - tissue structure that is region of the body posterior to the last anal - fin ray .
anatomical structure that consists of a sheet of connective tissue attached to the vertebral column and dividing the epaxial and hypaxial musculature .
surface structure that is a midsaggital strap of flattened ectodermal tissue extending along the posterodorsal midline .
ligament that is in the eye and is located at the angle between the cornea and the iris .
cns white matter ,  an axonal tract between ventral diencephalon and ventral telencephalon .
portion of tissue that forms from the swim bladder epithelium at the anterior end of the swim bladder .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 8 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 9 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 10 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 11 .
anatomical space which is located beneath the operculum and external to the gills .
sliver of bone that invest part of or all the posterior aspect of each antorbital plane .
basal fulcrum that precedes a caudal fin lobe .
a vertebral centrum that is located immediately posterior to ural centrum 2  ( polyural terminology )  .
a vertebral centrum that is located immediately posterior to ural centrum 3  ( polyural terminology )  and may fuse to ural centrum 3 early in ontogeny .
vertebra that is incomplete or rudimentary and may bear a rudimentary neural arch and sometimes a rudimentary spine or the neural arch and spine are completely absent .
ural vertebra that is located directly posterior to preural centrum 1 .
anatomical cluster including all segmented - and - branched rays plus one unbranched but segmented ray located at the leading margin in each lobe of the caudal fin  ( hubbs and lagler ,  1947 )  and that associates with endoskeletal elements such as hypurals and hemal spines of preural centra 1 and 2  ( arratia ,  2008 )  .
an anatomical cluster of short rays ,  shorter than the principal ones ,  which form the anterior dorsal and ventral series of lepidotrichia of the caudal fin that may be associated with neural spines ,  epurals and uroneurals  ( dorsal series )  and haemal spines of preural vertebrae  ( ventral series )   ( arratia ,  2008 )  .
an elongate lateral process ventrally placed to the proximal region of the pleurostyle .
modified neural arch ,  probably of ural centrum 4 ,  formed by a bony base that may extend along the dorso - lateral surfaces of ural centra and preural centra 1 or 2 and by a well - developed antero - dorsal membranous projection that extends lateral to the base of epural ( s )  and anterior toward the neural arches and / or spines of preural centra 1 or 2  ( arratia and schultze ,  1992 )  .
urostyle that is the result of fusion of preural centrum 1 with ural centra 1 and 2 .
hindbrain nucleus which consists of cell bodies whose axons exit the hindbrain via cranial nerve viii and innervate hair cells of the lateral line and inner ear .
telencephalic nucleus which has migrated away from the ependyma and consists of the central ,  lateral nuclei and the dorsal and ventral entopeduncular nuclei .
peripheral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon which is located immediately lateral to the dorsal nucleus of the ventral telencephalon .
portion of tissue that consists of afferent axons from the inferior olive and synapsing with purkinje cells within the molecular layer of the valvula cerebelli and corpus cerebelli .
motor nucleus of vagal nerve that is located within the dorsolateral portion of rhomobomere 8 .
portion of tissue that grows in from the dorsolateral wall of the otic vesicle ,  forming a dorsolateral partition between the developing anterior and posterior semicircular canals .
portion of tissue that is a thickening and reshaping of the epidermal basal stratum cells beneath which fibroblasts accumulate to form the scale primordium .
muscle which is part of the head .
cns white matter that crosses the midline within the hindbrain .
head muscle that originates on the anterior region of the cleithrum and inserts on the urohyal .
diencephalic nucleus which is located between the dorsal hypothalamus and the caudal tuberal nucleus and does not contain tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells .
peripheral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon that has migrated to the periphery of the brain .
podocyte that is part of the kidney  ( mesonephros )  .
portion of cranial nerve ii where large fasicles of axons from the optic fiber layer come together prior to leaving the eye .
diencephalic nucleus which is located in the caudal tuberculum .
podocyte that is part of the pronephros .
lateral line canal that that crosses the supratemporal region posterior to the openings of the endolymphatic ducts and connects the lateral canals of each side .
organism subdivision that is the side of the body possessing eyes .
organism subdivision that is the side of the body lacking eyes .
joint that articulates the premaxilla and maxilla .
pharyngeal arch cartilage located between uncinate process of epibranchial 1 and pharyngobranchial 2 .
scale that possesses cteni  ( discrete spines )  .
ctenoid scale with two or three alternating rows of cteni marginally and truncated cteni submarginally .
neuromast of the supraorbital sensory canal in the nasal bone .
fin that is an unpaired fin located in the sagittal plane of the organism .
pectoral fin distal radial 1 element that is composed of bone tissue .
pectoral fin distal radial 2 element that is composed of bone tissue .
pectoral fin distal radial 3 element that is composed of bone tissue .
joint that articulates the preopercle and opercle .
surface structure that is a visible mark on the body resulting from pigmentation .
scale that is smooth - edged ,  round or oval and composed of acellular dermal bone lacking small spines on the posterior exposed edge .
clear ocular fluid in the anterior segment of the eye .
multi - tissue structure that composes the opaque fibrous outer layer of the eye .
portion of organism substance that is a gelatinous extracellular matrix structure that fills the vitreous cavity of the eye .
dermal bone that is typically associated with a fin .
basal fulcrum that is positioned at the dorsal or anterodorsal margin of the caudal fin .
basal fulcrum that is positioned at the anteroventral margin of the caudal fin .
dermal bone that is an unpaired ,  scale - like structure .
the mesencephalic veins  ( msv )  enter the mid cerebral veins  ( mcev )  at the dorsal midline .
a vascular loop attached to the efferent part of the mandibular arch that forms at 3 .5 dpf .
the branch of the afferent branchial artery that continues posteriodorsally .
the anterioventral proceeding branch of the afferent branchial artery .
the vessel between the anterior cerebral vein and the mid cerebral vein .
arteries that irrigate the forebrain and midbrain isogai et al .
extend upward from the pcs ,  branch to provide an arterial feed to the hindbrain ,  then drain back down into the phbc isogai et al .
the opercular artery arises from the hyoid stump on the first aortic arch ,  then follows the lateral margin of the operculum  ( gill covering )  ventrally to reconnect into the proximal part of the first aortic arch .
trunk vessel that connects to the primitive hindbrain channel and the basilar artery at the caudal end of the medulla oblongata .
main route for venous drainage of the anterior and mid cerebral veins as well as portions of the primordial hindbrain channel .
vein that drains the dorsal longitudinal vessel and the caudal portions of the venous capillary network of the medulla oblongata .
hematopoietic tissue derived from the cephalic mesoderm .
vessel that connects to the primitive hindbrain channel and the basilar artery at the caudal end of the medulla oblongata .
vein that connects to the hyaloid vein that drains the eye .
vessels run longitudinally along the horizontal myoseptum .
a continuation of the anterior mesenteric artery ,  which branches out from the dorsal aorta just caudal to the pronephric glomus .
the artery that carries blood to the eye .
vessel that branches from cranial division of the internal carotid artery ,  extending laterally around the rostral end of the head .
after the primitive prosencephalic artery forms it becomes disconnected from the cranial division of the internal carotid artery and instead it connects to the anterior mesencephalic central artery and the communicating vessels of the palatocerebral artery .
the pla branches ventrally from the crdi .
connect the palatocerebral artery with the prosencephalic artery .
arteries that irrigate rostral regions of the midbrain .
drains the pla loop proceeds straight caudally along the cranial midline just above the pharynx ,  just below the diencephalon .
vein that drains the median palatocerebral vein into the optic vein .
composed of scattered layers of interrupted elastic lamina .
composed of 7 - 10 layers of helically arranged smooth muscle cells surrounded by a fine network of collagen ,  reticular ,  and elastic fibrils .
composed of subendothelium with longitudinally oriented collagen ,  reticular fibrils ,  elastic fibers ,  and smooth muscle cells bound by a thin endothelial layer .
cardiac conduction system ,  characterized by slow impulse propagation and prolonged refractory periods .
portion of the cardiac conduction system ,  with rapid impulse propagation .
project rostrally and dorsally from the amcta to to irrigate the midportion of the midbrain isogai et al .
project dorsally from bca to irrigate the caudal part of midbrain isogai et al .
unpaired artery departing from dorsal aorta ,  typically supplying the small intestine
these arteies branch dorsally from both sides of the posterior communicating artery looping up to join with the opposite mta as well as with both middle cerebral veins at the dorsal midline of the head .
the nasal arteries start at the internal carotid artey and travel rostrally ,  passing along the right and left walls of the nasal sac at the most rostral end of the head .
unpaired artery departing from dorsal aorta that typically supplies the large intestine
an elaborate set of vessels that branche off caudally from the anterior mesenteric artery just after the dorsal aorta .
positioned in the intraray mesenchym between the hemirays of the lepidotrichia ,  .
lie flanking and just lateral to the fin ray ,  in the interray mesenchyme .
vessels that travel between artery and veins or vein and vein in a single ray .
vessels that travel between veins in adjacent rays .
neuromast that is part of the dorsal lateral line .
primordium that forms the first neuromasts of the posterior lateral line .
second lateral line primordium .these primordia moves at 0 .2 somites / hour and deposite neromasts that are polarized in a dorso - ventral direction .
a migrating group of cells originating from an anterior lateral line placode .
a migrating group of cells originating from the middle lateral line placode .
a surface structure that will eventually grow to form a barbel .
intestinal epithelium which lines the lumen of the intestinal bulb .
epithelium that surrounds a primary tooth .
skeletal tissue that is hypermineralized and aprismatic and deposited by a combination of ameloblasts and odontoblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
a branch of the 8th cranial nerve that innervates the cristae ampullaris .
part of regeneration epithelium at the tip of the fin / limb  [ zfa , modified ]  .
layer of the wound epidermis that surrounds the blastema in the fin or limb [ zfa , modified ]  .
iridescent iridophore containing gold reflecting platelets .
iridescent iridophore containing silver reflecting platelets .
bile duct that collects from the intrahepatic ducts and feeds into the common bile duct .
portion of the liver which develops on the fish's ventral side .
an interneuron in the spinal cord .
an interneuron of the spinal cord .
a bifurcate interneuron .it is a commissural neuron with both ascending and descending axons in the ventrolateral cord contralateral to its cell body .
cns interneurons located in the midbrain .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 7 ,  with 2 ventral neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
cranial vasculature where the posterior cerebral veins and the trans - choroid plexus branch form a circuit around the 4th ventricle choroid plexus .
median fin radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
median fin proximal radial element that is composed of bone tissue .
a bifurcate interneuron where the axon projects ventrally ,  crossing the spinal cord ventral to the mauthner axons before bifurcating and extending dorsally .
a interneuron of the spinal cord with an ipsilateral axon that extends ventral to the mauthner axon then turns dorsally and caudally and sometimes has a minor ascending branch .
a spinal interneuron with a dorsal dendrite that extends caudally .
kolmer - agduhr neurons are ciliated gabaergic neurons that contact the central canal of the spinal cord and have ipsilateral ascending axons .
fibrous joint connecting the parietal bones .
is a fibroblast that differentiates from the de - differentiated cells of the blastema .
interneurons of the spinal cord that arise from the v1 proliferation domain .
a portion of tissue formed between the base of the intestinal villi that is part of the intestinal epithelium where intestinal stem cells are located .
capillary that has endothelial cells that provide an uninterrupted lining ,  and only allow small molecules ,  like water and ions to diffuse through tight junctions which leave gaps of unjoined membrane which are called intercellular clefts .
capillary that has pores in the endothelial cells  ( 60 - 80 nm in diameter )  that are spanned by a diaphragm of radially oriented fibrils and allow small molecules and limited amounts of protein to diffuse
synovial joint that articulates the hyomandibula and the opercle .
fossa on the pterotic where the hyomandibula articulates .
muscle that moves parts of the body in a superior direction to an erect position .
joint that articulates the posterior edge of the preopercle horizontal limb with the symplectic .
space enclosed by the trabeculae cranii .
a muscle that moves body parts into an inferior direction or lowered position .
immature reproductive tissue that has not undergone final maturation into either testis or ovary .
a thin layer of smooth muscle immediately beneath the base of the villi which permits the intestinal mucosa to dynamically move and fold .
foramen in the hyomandibula that allows passage of the anterior lateral line nerve and the facial nerve  ( cranial nerve vii )  .
joint that articulates the anterior edge of the preopercle vertical limb and the hyomandibula .
smooth muscle of the enteric muscle system in which the cells are aligned perpendicular to the lumen of the gut .
portion of the renal tubule which is just posterior to the distal early tubule .
simple squamous epithelium that lines the capsule of the pronephric glomerulus .
fin fold of the pectoral fin bud ,  resulting from mesenchyme migration into the apical fold .
the functional webs of the paired fins .
ionocyte located in the gills
ionocyte located in the integument during embryonic and larval stages .
integument ionocyte rich in na , k - atpase .
integument ionocyte rich in vacuolar - type h +  atpase and carbonic anhydrase
posterior protrusion of the third ventricle .
cns white matter ,  axonal tract interconnecting catecholaminergic cell groups in the posterior tuberculum and hypothalamus .
portion of the pancreatic duct ,  external to the pancreas body that connects the pancreas with the hepatopancreatic ampulla .
dorsal fin distal radial 1 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 2 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 3 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 4 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 5 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 6 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 7 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 8 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 3 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 4 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 5 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 6 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 7 element that is composed of bone tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 8 element that is composed of bone tissue .
the dorsal part of the ear .
the ventral portion of the ear .
duct that crosses the midline connecting the sacculi .
foramen in the inner ear .
early - forming telencephalic neural cluster .neurons of the dorso - rostral cluster  ( drc )  extend axons to form the supra - optic tract  ( sot )  and the anterior commissure  ( ac )  .
early - forming neural cluster located in the rostral diencephalon .
early - forming neural cluster of the ventral midbrain .
early - developing neuronal cluster of the epiphysis .
hemal prezygapophyses are paired ,  anteromedially directed processes arising from the bases of hemal arches ,  ligamentously joined to the hemal postzygapophyses of the preceding vertebra .
part of the forebrain that is ventral to the ventral thalamus and dorsal to the preoptic area .
part of cranial nerve x .
non neural ectoderm that surrounds the presumptive neural plate and gives rise to neurogenic placodes .
is a hyoid muscle that inserts at the most anterior basibranchial and also at the posterior ends of the ceratohyals and functions in jaw closure .
is a hyoid muscle that attaches to the dorsomedial faces of the hyosymplectics .
rod - like internal median skeletal support elememts of the anal fin ,  which articulate with the distal radial elements .
radial elements are the internal skeletal supports of the median and paired fins .
pelvic fin radial elements are internal skeletal supports of the pelvic fin .
endochondral element that is paired and supports the pelvic fin .
rod - like internal median skeletal support elements of the anal fin ,  which articulate with the lepidotrichia distally .
rod - like internal median skeletal support elements of the dorsal fin ,  which articulate with the lepidotrichia distally .
rod - like internal median skeletal support elements of the dorsal fin ,  which articulate with the distal radial elements .
pectoral fin radial elements are the internal skeletal supports of the pectoral fin which develop from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc ,  supports the pectoral lepidotrichia or fin rays and connects the lepidotrichia with the primary pectoral girdle .
pectoral fin radial element which develops from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc ,  supports a few pectoral lepidotrichia or fin rays and connects the lepidotrichia and distal radial elements with the primary pectoral girdle  ( scapula and coracoid )  .
pectoral fin radial element that sometimes ossifies ,  develops from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc ,  and is located at the proximal region of a lepidotrichium ,  between its hemitrichia .
dorsal fin radial element that is the rod - like internal median skeletal support element of the dorsal fin located between the dorsal fin proximal radial element and dorsal fin distal radial element .
anal fin radial element that is the rod - like internal median skeletal support element of the anal fin located between the anal fin proximal radial element and anal fin distal radial element .
anal fin radial elements are internal skeletal supports of the anal fin .
dorsal fin radial elements are internal skeletal supports of the dorsal fin .
pectoral fin proximal radial element that is the most anterior or dorsal pectoral fin radial element .
pectoral fin proximal radial element that is the second most anterior or dorsal pectoral fin radial element .
pectoral fin proximal radial element that is the third most anterior or dorsal pectoral fin radial element .
pectoral fin proximal radial element that is the fourth most anterior or dorsal pectoral fin radial element .
radial element that is part of a median fin .
anal fin proximal radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pelvic fin radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
basipterygium element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
anal fin distal radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pelvic fin distal radial 2 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pelvic fin distal radial 3 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pelvic fin distal radial 1 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pectoral fin radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pectoral fin proximal radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pectoral fin distal radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin middle radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
anal fin middle radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
anal fin radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 1 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 2 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pectoral fin proximal radial 1 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pectoral fin proximal radial 2 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pectoral fin proximal radial 3 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pectoral fin proximal radial 4 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pectoral fin distal radial 1 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pectoral fin distal radial 2 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
pectoral fin distal radial 3 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
median fin radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
median fin proximal radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 1 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 2 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 3 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 4 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 5 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 6 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 7 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin distal radial 8 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 3 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 4 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 5 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 6 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 7 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
dorsal fin proximal radial 8 element that is composed of cartilage tissue .
paired ,  cup - shaped cartilage that are dorsal to the septomaxillae and anterior to the oblique cartilage .
dorsal process that extends toward the nasal bone .
foramen for the r . alveolaris of nerve vii and the alveolar artery .
point of insertion of the adductor mandibulae musculature .
process that extends anteriorly from the planum triangulare and invests the medial face of the pars facialis of the maxilla .
paired ,  vertical ,  and relatively straight plates that form the anterior limit of the nasal capsule .
in a triradiate pterygoid ,  the process that extends anteriorly towards the maxilla .
process that extends medially from the ventromedial corner of the palatoquadrate cartilage and articulates or fuses to the anterior wall of the otic capsule via the basitrabecular process .
ventral opening of the neurocranium .
anatomical structure which forms from an enlargement of the anterior portion of each gonad in all male bufonid larvae and consists of ovarian tissues .
the part of the skull that encloses the brain and surrounds the inner ear .
narrow process of the skeletal support that projects forward .
lateral cartilaginous border of the fenestra endochoanalis .
lateral wall of chondrocranial braincase between lamina orbitonasalis and pila metoptica .
accessory cavity located ventral to the cavum principale and cavum medius .
small accessory cavity located between the cavum principale and cavum inferius .
the largest part of the nasal cavity ,  containing the olfactory epithelium .
anterior - lateral projections from the corpus of the hyoid apparatus .
thin ,  horizontal ridge that extends medially from the corpus of the septomaxilla ;  it lays on the lamina inferior .
paired ,  oblique plates of cartilage located ventral to the alary cartilages .
ventral crest of the paries nasi .
short and blunt process that extends posteriorly from the posteromedial margin of the postnasal wall ,  on the anterodorsal corner of the orbit above the medial orbitonasal foramen .
also known as fibrous connective tissue .
flange that extends ventrally from about the middle portion of the margo mandibularis .
large anterior outgrowth of the septomaxilla that is directed into the space between the alary cartilage and the lamina inferior .
opening on the ventral aspect of the nasal capsule .
opening on the anterolateral aspect of the nasal capsule .
opening on the lateral side of the nasal capsule .
small opening at the anterior tip of the nasal capsule ,  on the floor of the cavum inferius .
elongated opening located on the lateral side of the nasal capsule .
large opening of the nasal floor anterior to the fenestra endochoanalis .
independent ,  horizontal bar of cartilage located on the anterior part of the fenestra ovalis in front of the pars interna plectri .
dorsal opening of the neurocranium .
complex formed by two units ,  the hyoid and laryngeal apparatuses ,  which are both derived from the larval hyobranchial skeleton .
elongate cartilage that extends anteroventrally from the solum nasi to abut the ventral portion of the posterior aspect of the alary process of the premaxilla .
larval lower jaw lies anterior to meckels cartilage .
dorsal plate of the squamosal .
lateral expansion of the crista intermedia that serves as the floor of the cavum medium .
free ,  dorsal margin of the lamina inferior .
posterior face of septum nasi .
lateral expansion of the crista intermedia that serves as the roof of the cavum medium .
ventrally directed margin that connects the anterior and posterior rami of the pterygoid .
dorsal margin of the maxilla between the frontal and zygomatico - maxillary processes .
margin that connects the anterior and medial rami of the pterygoid .
anterior margin of the squamosal that takes part in the formation of the orbit .
margin that connects the posterior and medial rami of the pterygoid .
a compound bone consisting of maxilla and palatine ,  can also contain a prefrontal and / or lacrimal ;  present in adult gymnophiona .
opening on the postnasal wall for the medial branch  ( = ramus medialis nasi )  of the ophthalmicus nerve .
in a triradiate pterygoid ,  the process that extends medially towards the otic capsule .
anterior projection of the septum nasi that protrudes through the anterior nasal wall .
a compound bone consisting of premaxilla ,  nasal and sometimes septomaxilla in adult members of caeciliidae and typhlonectidae .
semi - circular cartilaginous sheet that lies lateral to the side of the septum nasi .
foramen that forms a passage for one of the branches of the trigeminal nerve into the nasal region .
ossified posterior articular portion of meckel's cartilage .
a bone that forms both the floor of the braincase and the posterior part of the skull .
osseous expansion of the posterior and medial rami of the pterygoid .
ramus  ( process )  that extends medially toward the otic capsule .
fused prootic and exoccipital bones .
cartilaginous bridge that extends posteriorly to the anterolateral corner of the posterior nasal wall .
process that extends anteriorly from the orbitotemporal region .
paired processes extending lateraly from the posterior body of the parasphenoid that ,  when present ,  support the otic capsules ventrally .
paired ,  elongate ,  ventrolaterally - orieted cartilaginous structures that extend to the premaxilla - maxilla articulation .
posterior end of meckel's cartilage that forms the articular head of the mandibular arch .
tooth - bearing part of the maxilla .
tooth - bearing part of the premaxilla .
plate - like structure that lies in the fenestra ovalis .
lingual ledge on the inner surface of the maxilla .
lingual ledge on the inner surface of the premaxilla .
consists of enlarged cistern against which the operculum and footplate of the columella rest in the oval window .
a strut of cartilage  extending dorsally from the basal plate and with other similar cartilages forming the sides of the brain case .
a strut of cartilage  extending dorsally from the basal plate and with other similar cartilages forming the sides of the brain case .
vertical plate of cartilage that is fused posterodorsally to the oblique cartilage and anteriorly to the lamina inferior .
cartilaginous ,  distal expansion of the lamina orbitonasalis that invests the pars facialis of the maxilla medially .
complex sound - conducting anatomical structure .
process that extends posteriorly from the planum triangulare and invests the maxilla laterally and the anterior ramus of the pterygoid medially .
in a triradiate pterygoid ,  the process that extends posterolaterally towards the jaw articulation .
paired ,  anteriorly concave structures that form the posterior limit of nasal capsule .
point of insertion of the masticatory musculature .
cartilaginous or ligamentous connection between the pars externa plectri and the crista parotica .
posterior part of the corpus of the septomaxilla ;  the posterior surface of the processus infrafenestralis is in contact with the oblique cartilage .
dorsolateral process of the of the medial ramus of the pterygoid .
posterior ,  toothless portion of the maxilla by which it usually comes in contact with the quadratojugal .
posterior end of the pars palatina of the maxilla that is in contact with the anterior ramus of the pterygoid .
posterodorsal extension of the maxilla by which it establishes contact with the squamosal .
compound bone of adult gymnophiona ,  consisting of dentary ,  coronoid and mentomeckelian .
palatal bones of intramembranous origin that lie anterior to the otic capsules ,  lateral to the orbits ,  and medial to the maxillae .
process that extends anteriorly from the anterolateral margin of the palatoquadrate and articulates or synchondrotically fuses to the posterior end of the posterior maxillary process .
is a recess on the surface of the premaxilla near to the base of the pars facialis .
is a space on the interior surface of the pars facialis of the maxilla
bony process that is part of the articular and is the point of insertion of the m . interhuoideus posterior .
is a process of the nasal bone directed anteriorly towards the rostrum .
the anterior connective tissue partition between walls of otic capsule around which the membranous semicircular canals pass .
the lateral connective tissue partition between walls of otic capsule around which the membranous semicircular canals pass .
the posterior connective tissue partition between walls of otic capsule around which the membranous semicircular canals pass .
elevation of the dorsal surface of the solum nasi medial to the fenestra endochoanalis that provides support for the eminentia olfactoria .
unpaired ,  horizontal plate that forms the floor of the nasal capsule .
endochondral bone that forms the anterior portion of the braincase and forms from one ossification center on each side of the orbital cartilage .
groove located between the pars dentalis and the bases of the maxillary teeth .
groove located between the pars dentalis and the bases of the premaxillary teeth .
a groove on the palatoquadrate that is occupied by the meckel's cartilage .
paired ,  elongate cartilages that extend anteroventrally to abut the dorsomedial margin of the posterior face of the alary process of the premaxilla .
the suprangular or surangular is a jaw bone found in most land vertebrates ,  except mammals .
median ,  unpaired bone that can form the dorsal margin of the foramen magnum .
endochondral ossification of the dorsomedial portion of the braincase .
cartilaginous connection between the orbital cartilage and otic capsules .
roof of the nasal capsule ,  confluent with lamina orbitonasalis posteriorly and united to septum nasi .
central ,  funnel - shaped ,  ossified portion of the tympanic annulus fused to the squamosal bone .
longest of the three squamosal rami ;  it invests the dorsolateral margin of the palatoquadrate .
ramus  ( process )  that projects anteriorly from the dorsal body of the squamosal and forms part of the posterior margin of the orbit .
skeletal structure that separates the inferior and superior perilymphatic foramina .
rod - shaped process that extends caudally from the inferior edge of the planum terminale .
basal part of the septomaxilla .
anterior ,  rounded portion of the corpus of the septomaxilla .
sharp ridge that extends medially from the basal part of the processus infrafenestralis ;  it separates the diverticulum proncipale from the diverticulum medium .
synchondrotic or synostotic connection between the footplate of the pars media plectri and the ventral margin of the fenestra ovalis .
process that extends anterolaterally toward the maxilla - premaxilla articulation .
anterio portion of the maxilla that may contact the nasal and take part in the formation of a groove for the nasolacrimal duct .
most anterior part of the maxilla ,  which is in contact with the premaxilla .
depression lacated on the inner surface of the maxilla between the palatine process and the pars palatina .
portion of the quadratojugal that makes contact dorsally with the distal portion of the squamosal .
anterior part of the quadratojugal that is in contact with the processus posterior of the maxilla .
dorsal process of the lamella alaris located at the anterior end of the margo orbitalis ;  a narrow ligament that runs from the frontoparietal is attached to it .
posterior process of the lamella alaris .
tooth - bearing process of the vomer .
process that extends laterally from the anterior process ;  its bifurcation from the postchoanal process occurs at the level of the dentigerous process .
process that extends laterally from the anterior process ;  its bifurcation from the prechoanal process occurs at the level of the dentigerous process .
margin between the prechoanal and postchoanal process .
ridge on the dorsal surface of the vomer that runs from the anterior to the postchoanal processes of the vomer ;  it takes part in the fixation of the bone to the lateral margin of the solum nasi .
posterior projection of the median part of the parsphenoid ,  which may extend over the posterior margins of the subotic alae .
azygous or paired bone that occurs on the ventral surface of the hyoid plate .
area of fusion of the ceratohyals .
is the space along the anterior edge of the hyoid plate between the hyale and through which passes the hyoglossus muscle as it passes dorsally into the tongue .
processes that flank the hyales laterally and extend anterolaterally from the anterolateral margin of the hyoid plate .
paired processes that extend posterolaterally from the posterolateral margin of the hyoid plate .
cartilaginous ,  paired processes that extend posterolaterally from the posterior margin of the hyoid plate .
paired processes that extend posteroventrally from the anterolateral margins of the cricoid ring .
median process located on the posterior end of the cricoid cartilage .
proximal section of the hyale .
depression that houses the hypoglossus nerve and is located between the anterolateral process and the proximal part of the hyale .
foramen that houses the hypoglossus nerve and is located between the anterolateral process and the proximal part of the hyale .
strip of cartilage that forms the lateral margin of the foramen nervi hypoglossi .
anterior end of the arytenoid cartilage .
posterior  ( cardiac )  end of the arytenoid cartilage .
paired stalks located dorsolateral to the vertebral centrum that provide support to the lateral margins of the neural arch laminae .
anterior ,  single or paired concave facets for articulation with the condyle ( s )  of the urostyle .
indentation on the anterior margin of the pedicel .
space formed by the anterior and posterior intervertebral notches .
indentation on the posterior margin of the pedicel .
paired processes that represent the rib attachments to the vertebra plus the ribs .
holochordal vertebral centra that are concave anteriorly and convex posteriorly ;  they bear a condyle on the posterior end for the articulation with the posterior adjacent vertebral centrum ,  forming a ball - and - socket joint that allows extensive motion in most directions .
ectochordal or stegochordal vertebral centra that are convex anteriorly and concave posteriorly ;  they bear a condyle on the anterior end for the articulation with the posterior adjacent vertebral centrum ,  forming a ball - and - socket joint that allows extensive motion in most directions .
vertebral centrum that originates from ossification of the dorsal portion of the perichordal tube ;  the resulting element tends to be depressed in cross section .
vertebral centrum that originates from ossification of the entire perichordal tube ;  the resulting element is cylindrical in cross section and may have an open  ( notochord retained )  or solid center .
vertebral centrum that bears saddle - shaped articular surfaces at both ends ,  having a convexity in the right - left axis and a concavity in the dorsoventral axis .
vertebral centrum with flat ends .
ectochordal ,  biconcave or terminally flat vertebral centrum .
spool - shaped vertebral centrum with an open center in which the notochord lies .
spool - shaped vertebral centrum with a solid center .
vertebral centrum that is depressed dorsoventrally and solid .
paired plates that form the haemal arch .
longitudinal process found in all cervical vertebrae ,  except the atlas ,  for the attachment of dorsal head musculature .
opening on the lateral side of the vertebra for the passage of blood vessels .
ridge - shaped structure present on the dorsomedial surface of the neural arch lamina ;  this structure is produced at the point of junction of the contralateral sides of each neural arch .
ridge on the ventral aspect of the humeral shaft .
anterior ,  paired convex facets for articulation with the cotyle ( s )  of the urostyle .
anterior ,  single or paired concave facets for articulation with the sacral condyle ( s )  .
in anurans ,  pair of bony plates that connect the posteromedial margins of the sacral diapophyses with the lateral margins of the anterior portion of the urostyle .
longitudinal crest on the dorsal side of the urostyle formed by the caudal neural arches .
paired ,  cartilaginous elements located in the dorsolateral shoulder region .
prominent structure  ( anteromedial head )  that forms the anterior section of the ventral margin of the scapula .
concave structure  ( posteromedial head )  that forms the posterior head of the ventral margin of the scapula .
small hooked process on the dorsal aspect of the humeral shaft ;  it does not extend on to the glenoid head .
all those parts of the pectoral girdle ventral and medial to the glenoid fossa .
proximal portion of the prezonal element of the pectoral girdle .
paired ,  flat cartilaginous arches that compose the central portion of the zonal area ,  unites the clavicle and coracoid of each half of the pectoral girdle ,  and form the medial margins of the pectoral fenestrae .
a pair of cartilaginous expansions  ( one from each epicoracoid cartilage )  that project anteriorly .
the central ,  most concave portion of the acetabulum ,  which remains open .
longitudinal crest on the dorsal side of the shaft of the ilium .
anterior rod that articulates with the sacrum .
posterior body of the ilium that forms the anterior half of the acetabulum .
opening on the glenoid fossa .
a pair of cartilaginous expansions  ( one from each epicoracoid cartilage )  that project posteriorly .
opening on the scapulocoracoid bone through which passes the n . supracoracoideus and the corresponding artery and vein .
ovoid space on the pectoral girdle limited anteriorly by the procoracoid ,  medially by the epicoracoid ,  and posteriorly by the coracoid .
notch that separates the cartilaginous regions of the procoracoid and coracoid .
ovoid roughened pit ,  which is situated a little below and behind the center of the head ,  and serves as a site of attachment for ligaments .
semi - elliptical ball located at the lower end of the humerus ,  adjacent to the humeral ball .
furrow between the humeral head and the ulnar condyle .
depresion on the distal end of the humerus ,  just anterior to the humeral head ,  in which the end of the radius fits when the forelimb is flexed .
in a fused radio - ulna ,  the proximal portion of the compound bone  ( where the sulcus longitudinalis is barely evident or absent )  is a cylindrical pillar .
subdivision of the cleithrum that extends along the anterior edge of the suprascapula .
stegochordal slightly biconcave or flat terminally vertebral centrum .
vertebral column in which the first seven vertebrae have holochordal centra and the intervertebral cartilages are posteriorly subdivided in the procoelous manner .
overlapping neural arches that obscure the spinal cord dorsally .
neural arches that do not overlap ,  thus exposing the spinal cord dorsally .
dorsal ,  dermal plate of bone that overlies the presacral vertebrae .
strip of cartilage that separates the coracoid from the scapula .
space between the atlantal cotyles .
convex articular facet of the vertebral centrum for the articulation with the adjacent centrum .
concave articular facet of the vertebral centrum for the articulation with the adjacent centrum .
in a zygapophysis that has ridges and sulci ,  the lateral canal between the carina distalis and the carina medialis .
in a zygapophysis that has ridges and sulci ,  the medial canal between the carina medialis and the carina proximalis .
in a zygapophysis that has ridges and sulci ,  the proximal ridge .
in a zygapophysis that has ridges and sulci ,  the medial ridge .
in a zygapophysis that has ridges and sulci ,  the distal ridge .
paired ,  posteriorly directed process at the posterior margin of each neural arch lamina .
paired ,  additional vertebral articulations located medial to the intervertebral space ,  adjacent to the vertebral centrum .
medial groove in the longitudinal ridge of the urostyle formed by the incomplete dorsal fusion of the caudal neural arches .
lateral end of the clavicle ,  which usually lies in close proximity to the pars acromialis of the scapula ,  and occassionally may fuse to it .
canal on the posterior aspect of the clavicle that accomodates the anterior margin of the procoracoid cartilage .
lateral end of the coracoid ,  which forms the medial portion of the glenoid fossa .
medial end of the coracoid ,  which is synchondrotically fused to the epicoracoid cartilage .
anterior margin of the coracoid ,  which forms the posterior edge of the pectoral fenestra .
posterior margin of the coracoid .
anterior margin of the scapula .
inferior margin of the pars acromialis of the scapula ,  which articulates with the clavicule .
posterior margin of the scapula .
superior margin of the scapula ,  which articulates with the suprascapula .
superior portion of the scapula ,  which is thinner than the rest of the shaft .
notch or indentation between the pars glenoidalis and pars acromialis of the scapula .
leading  ( anterior )  portion of the scapula ,  which is thinner than the rest of the shaft .
longitudinal ridge on the medial  ( inner )  face of the scapula .
anterior margin of the anterior ramus of the cleithrum .
posterior margin of the posterior ramus of the cleithrum .
lateral margin of the suprascapula ,  which articulates with the scapula .
medial margin of the suprascapula ,  which lies dorsal to the vertebral column .
small process of the lamina recurvata that extends laterally toward the scapular - suprascapular articulation .
portion of the anterior ramus of the cleithrum that invest the anterior margin of the suprascapula ,  extending onto its dorsal surface .
notch or indentation between the anterior and posterior rami of the cleithrum .
portion of the posterior ramus of the cleithrum that invests the posterior margin of the suprascapula ,  extending onto its dorsal surface .
ridge on the lateral aspect of the humeral shaft located just anterior to the radial  ( lateral )  epicondyle .
ridge on the medial aspect of the humeral shaft that extends from the level of the middle portion of the shaft to ulnar  ( medial )  epicondyle .
small ridge on the lateral aspect of the radial shaft ,  located at the level of the collum antibrachii .
lateral portion of the proximal  ( upper )  articular surface of the radius that consists of an eminence with a rounded apex .
small eminence on the distal articular head of the radius .
small eminence on the distal articular head of the ulna .
in a fused radio - ulna ,  longitudinal furrow that demarcates the area of fusion of both elements .
oval carpal element that is located on the anteromedial side of the radiale and the anterolateral side of the ulnare .
small elements present in all digits of the manus ,  when present in a taxon .
opening for the passage of the perforans carpi artery from the ventral to the dorsal side .
composite element formed by the fusion of the ischium and pubis .
dorsal extremity of the ilial shaft ,  which remains cartilaginous .
shelf - like expansion of the ilial corpus that forms the anterior border of the acetabulum .
shelf - like expansion of the ischium that forms the posterior border of the acetabulum .
dorsal portion of the ilial corpus ,  located above the acetabulum .
small ,  dorsolaterally projecting knob located just anterior to the supra - acetabular expansion and about the level of the anterior border of the acetabulum .
ventral portion of the ilial corpus ,  located anteroventral to the acetabulum .
small depression dorsal to the proximal portion of the collum ilei and ventral to the ilial protuberance .
cyllindrical pillar that originates anterior to the acetabulum and extends to the ilial shaft .
elongate ,  cylindrical structure on the ventral side of the shaft of the ilium that extends through its entire length .
crest on the posterior side of the ischium ,  which may also extend to the posteroventral aspect of pubis .
small ,  rounded process on the anterodorsal margin of the ischium ,  just posterior to the area of articulation with the ilium .
small ,  rounded process on the anteroventral margin of the preacetabular expansion of the ilial corpus .
small protuberance on the ischium ,  located close to its posteroventral margin .
small protuberance on the ischium ,  located at the level of the superior margin of the acetabulum and close to its posterior margin .
small indentation on the posterior margin of the ischium ,  ventral to the intumescentia bilateralis superior .
large protuberance on the dorsal aspect of the ischium that extends from the ischio - ilium articulation to the spina pelvis posterior .
area of convergence of the ilial shafts .
area dorsal to the pelvic girdle symphysis ,  between the dorsal portions of the ilial corpora ,  where lies the posterior terminus of the urostyle .
small prepubic element formed by a plate of cartilage  ( which may calcify in the adult )  that is synchondrotically united with the pubis .
paired cartilaginous rods that lie within the copulatory organ  ( or so - called tail )  and are attached to the posteroventral part of the pelvic girdle .
y - shaped cartilage lying in the middle line ,  anterior to the pubo - ischium with which it articulates .
low crest that arises just behind the acetabular head and extends distally for about one - third the length of the femoral shaft .
canal on the posteroventral surface of the femoral head ,  which articulates with the ischial process on the rim of the acetabulum .
ovoid roughened pit situated on the dorsal and anteroventral surface of the acetabular head wherein the ligaments attaching the bone to the acetabulum are inserted .
paired ridges on the ventral surface of the femoral shaft that run toward the femoral trochanter ;  the posterior crest is less developed .
ridge that arises from the dorso - masial side of the extensor surface of the tibia .
swelling on the extensor surface of the distal head of the tibiofibula .
proximal head of the tibiofibula that articulates with the distal head of the femur .
small canal on the proximal head of to the tibiofibula ,  lateral to the apophysis distalis ,  for the insertion of the cruris brevis muscle .
small crest on the extensor surface of the proximal head of the tibiofibula  ( tibial side )  .
in a fused tibiofibula ,  longitudinal furrow in the distal portion of the compound bone that demarcates the area of fusion of both elements .
in a fused tibiofibula ,  longitudinal furrow in the proximal portion of the compound bone that demarcates the area of fusion of both elements .
foramen for the tibial artery and vein and the deep peroneal nerve ;  it pierces through the midpoint of the shaft of the tibiofibula .
separation of the tibiale and fibulare along their longitudinal axia .
swelling on the extensor surface of the proximal compound head of the tibiale and fibulare .
swelling on the extensor surface of the distal compound head of the tibiale and fibulare .
oval tarsal element that is located on the anteromedial side of the tibiale .
one to three or four elements located ventral and medial to the metatarsal of digit i .
small elements present in all digits of the pes ,  when present in a taxon .
small opening between the centrale and fibulare that allows the perforans tarsi artery to pass from the ventral to the dorsal side of the ankle .
dorso - lateral portion of the pectoral girdle .
all those parts of the pectoral girdle in the central region of the zonal area .
all those parts of the pectoral girdle that lie anterior to the zonal area .
all those parts of the pectoral girdle that lies posterior to the zonal area .
pectoral girdle in which the epicoracoid cartilages are elaborated into posteriorly directed epicoracoid horns .
pectoral girdle that lacks epicoracoid horns .
modified arciferal pectoral girdle in which the fusion of the epicoracoid cartilages in the interclavicle region is extended posteriorly .
modified firmisternal pectoral girdle in which the epicoracoid cartilages are partly free and overlapping ;  however ,  the epicoracoids are fused to one another and the sternum postermodially .
three pairs of cartilaginous elements posterior to the sternum that lie in the myosepta of the ventral trunk musculature .
paired processes located on the anterior end of the cricoid cartilage .
laminar subdivision of the cleithrum that extends along the ventral  ( lateral )  midbody of the suprascapula .
small ,  broadly triangular bar of bone lying across the ventral side of the pharynx at the junction of the m . genio - hyoideus and the m . rectus cervicis superficialis .
paired ,  horn - like processes of basibranchial i that protrude in an antero - dorso - lateral direction ,  being more or less embedded in the tongue musculature .
paired ,  horn - like processes of basibranchial i that protrude in an antero - dorso - lateral direction ,  being more or less embedded in the tongue musculature .
paired bars that articulate with hypobranchial ii .
paired bar that articulates with basibranchial i .
paired bar that articulates with ,  or is fused to ,  hypobranchial i .
paired bar that articulates anteriorly with basibranchial i and posteriorly with ceratobranchials ii -  - iv .
paired ,  anterior element that articulates medially with basibranchial i and posterolaterally with the paired hypohyals .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
amalgamation of distal carpals 1 and 2 .
dermal bone of anuran lower jaw investing lingual and ventral surfaces of meckel's cartilage ;  forming coronoid process and articulating with palatoquadrate posteriorly .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the limb integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the tail integument .
the largest part of the nasal cavity ,  containing the olfactory epithelium .
larval upper jaws articulate with trabecular horns .
amalgamation of distal tarsals 1 and 2 .
mechanoreceptive organ of the lateral line ,  smaller than neuromasts ,  they are located on the surface of the epidermis .
cartilaginous larval skull .
originates from the superior process of the ilium and inserts on the aponeuronis of the m . cruralis .
originates on the ventro - lateral aspect of the ala ossis ilei and the ventral surface of the iliacus externus .
originates on the ventral pelvic rim ,  the pubic region ,  and the ventral surface of the adductor longus .
multi - cellular organism that has male and female sexes .
originates by two tendons: one on the postero - ventral aspect of the pelvic rim ,  the other ,  a dorsal tendon from the postero - dorsal pelvic rim under the ventral edge of m . semimembranosus .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of the male sex ,  and then later of the female sex .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of the female sex ,  and then later of the male sex .
distal - most centrale when two are present .
originates on the ventro - lateral border of the ischium and inserts on the ventro - medial surface of the femur at the base of caput femoris .
originates from the dorso - lateral margin of the ischium and inserts on the medial surface of the femur .
a dermal fold surrounding the body reflecting body segmentation .
rectangular cartilage or bone between the distal basal commune and the proximal intermedium .
cartilage that bridges palatoquadrate to ethmoid region .
originates by a broad tendon from the postero - ventral surface of the pelvic rim and inserts by two tendons .
originates from the pelvic rim just ventral to the anus and merges with m . gracilis major .
originates on the ventro - lateral surface of the ischium below the anus and inserts on the ventro - medial aspect of the femur and the head of the tibiofibula by a stout tendon ,  which is formed by the ventral origin of the plantaris longus .
quadrangular cartilage or bone lying between the preaxial radiale and the postaxial ulnare in the proximal level of the mesopodium .
originates from the ventral border of the ala ossis ilei just posterior to the origin of m . glutaeus maximus .
originates on the dorso - lateral border of the distal urostyle and inserts on the dorsal surface of the crista femoris .
the proximal - most rectangular cartilage or bone when two centralelia are present .
originates from the postero - ventral surface of the ala ossis ilei and from the insertion tendon of m . ileo - fibularis .
muscle originates on the ventral border of the ala ossis ilei to insert on the dorso - medial surface of the femur .
originates on the ventral and lateral surfaces of the ala ossis ilei and inserts on the postero - dorsal face of the caput femoris .
originates along the connective tissue covering the dorsal surface of the lung and inserts on the dorsal surface of the femur .
originates on the entire medial surface of the shaft of the tibiofibula .
originates on the ventro - lateral surface of the medial condyle of the femur .
originates by a slender tendon from the ventral surface of the medial condyle of the femur and passes over the knee to insert as a fleshy belly on the ventro - lateral surface of the tibiofibula .
originates from the dorso - lateral surface of the tibiofibula and inserts on the proximo - medial surface of the tibiale dorsal to the medial head of m . tibialis anticus longus .
a process of the otic capsule that will bridge to the palatoquadrate basal process .
small hair or nipple like projection on the integument .
process that projects from anterior margin of commissure as site of attachment for quadratoethmoid ligament .
originates on the medial border of the ligamentum calcanei and inserts along the ventral surface of the tibiale .
originates on the medial half of the ligamentum calcanei and inserts along the dorsal surface of the aponeurosis plantaris and extends to the level of the base of the prehallux .
cranial nerve iii innervated ;  dorsal in the rectus group .
cranial nerve iii innervated ;  ventral in the rectus group .
sensory nerve of the anterior lateral line component .
sensory nerve of the anterior lateral line component .
cranial nerve iii innervated ;  medial in the rectus group .
sensory nerve of the posterior lateral line component .
cranial nerve iii innverated ;  ventral in the obliquus group .
cartilage that bridges palatoquadrate muscular process to dorsal orbitonasal plate .
cranial nerve v innervated ;  ventral to the eye .
sensory nerve of the posterior lateral line component .
compose lateral rim of frontoparietal fenestra ,  ventrally confluent with orbital cartilages ,  posteriorly confluent with tectum synoticum .
cartilaginous connection that partitions frontoparietal fenestra into anterior and posterior regions .
forms lateral walls of braincase ,  confluent posteriorly with otic capsules via taenia tecti marginalis and anteriorly with lamina orbitonasalis via sphenethmoid commissure .
cartilaginous connection between the taenia tecti transversalis to the tectum synoticum ,  and subdividing the parietal fenestra into left and right fenestrae .
originates from the anterior surface of the hip joint capsule between the iliacus internus and the pectineus .
ventral plate anterior to and confluent with ethmoid plate .
anterior extensions .
posterior chondrocranium forming ventral and lateral margins of foramen magnum ,  medial to otic capsules .
toothlike processes found on the mandible of some anurans ;  can be formed by dentary or dentary  +  mentomeckelian bones ;  odontoids lack enamel and dentine present in true teeth .
plate of cartilage occluding fenestra ovalis .
investing bone in non - teleosts associated with nasolacrimal duct and lying between pars facialis of maxilla and prefrontal and sometimes nasal .
is a integumentary structure located on the ventral surface of the hand and / or foot .
a recurrent variant of salamanders ;  a rhomboidal cartilage lying immediately postaxial from the centrale or centrale 1 .
a small lateral diverticulum of the nasal cavity found in anuran larvae .
a part of the inferior cavity of the olfactory organ ,  found in anurans .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
a rounded  cartilage lying in the postaxial margin of the mesopodium ,  adjacent to the distal end of the fibulare .
either of two arteries which carry blood to the head .
an artery which supplies blood to the muscles of the tongue and floor of the mouth via four major branches .
an artery which supplies the upper jaw and cranium .
an anatomical cluster that is part of the cranium and structurally supports the eye .
either of a pair of cartilaginous rods that support the intromittent organ of male ascaphus ,  and are attached to the posteroventral part of the pelvic girdle .
eversible phalloid portion of the cloaca that is inserted in the female's vent during copulation .
a tail like posterior extension of the cloaca supported by a pair of nobelian rods
multi - cellular organism that does not produce gametes .
anatomical space that is part of a cell .
cell which has as its part a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and which has apical - basal cell polarity .
cell that is an individual member of a species .
anatomical point that is the apex of a projection or anything long and tapered ;  can be bony or cartilage .
pigmented ,  smaller blastomere of the animal  ( upper )  hemisphere of the cleaving embryo .
unpigmented ,  larger blastomere of the vegetal  ( lower )  hemisphere of the cleaving embryo .
cell type that is first to migrate inwards at the blastopore during gastrulation .
polymorphic cell type that forms cartilage .
a connective tissue cell that secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
primitive cell type that is involved in the reproduction of the organism beginning with the sexual differentiation of the gonads at nf stage 52 .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
a germ cell that is a primordial oocyte in a female and that develops into secondary oogonia by mitotic division .
a germ cell that is a primordial spermatocyte in a male and that develops into secondary spermatogonia by mitotic division .
a type of germ cell that results from the mitotic division of a primary oogonium .
a type of germ cell that results from the mitotic division of a primary spermatogonium .
a large distinctive organelle aggregate comprised of mitochondria found in developing oocytes of many species .
a cell of the b cell ,  t cell ,  or natural killer cell lineage .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive and surface immunoglobulin - positive .
a lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
an immature t cell located in the thymus .
embryonic  ( precursor )  cell of the myogenic lineage that develops from the mesoderm .
the myoblast that forms the muscles of the anterior abdominal walls .
cell that is the basic unit of nervous tissue ,  each consisting of a body ,  an axon ,  and dendrites ,  and the purpose of which is to receive ,  conduct ,  and transmit impulses in the nervous system .
cell type that contains a deposition of coloring matter .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
cell type that is a component of the glomus .
a relatively undifferentiated cell that retains the ability to divide and proliferate throughout life to provide progenitor cells that can differentiate into specialized cells .
a stem cell from which all cells of the lymphoid and myeloid lineages develop ,  including blood cells and cells of the immune system .
diploid cell produced by the fusion of sperm cell nucleus and egg cell .
the first appearance of the antomical space that will become the blastocoel .
skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the branchial arches ;  the last five of the set of seven pharyngeal arches ;  the numbering system can be confusing ;  generally branchial arch #1 is the first branchial arch ,  or the third pharyngeal arch ,  but some authors do not follow this convention .
part of the fin consisting of a supporting core of mesenchyme and extracellular matrix .
part of the fin consisting of flattened epidermal cells elevated into a keel - like structure .
the site of bicarbonate resorption in the adult kidney .
the smallest of the blood vessels ,  parts of the microcirculation ,  of the liver .
it arises on the lateral epicondyle of the humerus by two heads: the lateral one arises by a thin tendon in common with the m .extensor carpi ulnaris with fibers proximally fused .
marginal zone that is a key embryonic tissue region of the early gastrula stage embryo and that houses the spemann - mangold organizer .
part of the external carotid which delivers blood to the mm rectus cervicis and interhyoideus posterior .
part of the internal carotid which supplies blood to the ear and branches to two additional arteries .
part of lateral pretrosal artery which supplies blood to the roof of the mouth .
artery which supplies blood to the thymus and parotoid region .
this artery has many branches which supply blood to various organs in the viscus .
major branch which supplies blood to the spleen and dorsal wall of the stomach .
major branch which supplies blood to pancreas and duodenum .
major branch supplying blood via many smaller branches to the liver ,  duodenum ,  ventral wall of the stomach ,  and gall bladder .
one of three arteries which are part of the renal artery supplying blood to the anterior ,  middle ,  and posterior parts of the oviduct .
one of three major veins which enter the sinus venosus .
either of a pair of veins which enter on either side of the sinus venosus .
either of the veins which collect blood from the trunk and skin and drain into the subclavian vein .
anterior part of the lateral vein .
a vein formed by the combination of veins in the pelvic region which collects blood from the liver ,  stomach ,  intestines ,  and gall bladder .
either of a pair of veins which receives many small vesicles from the kidney and collects blood from the oviducal vein .
vein which collects blood from the oviduct .
originates by two heads ,  one from the dorso - distal border of the aponeurosis covering the knee and the other from two tendinous branches along the medial border of the knee joint .
either of the short tubes which bifurcate posteriorly from the trachea and lead into the lungs .
part of the ovary consisting of a thin sheath of connective tissue enclosing the ovarian follicles .
a thin membrane which attaches the testes to the kidneys and supports the efferent ductules from the testes to the kidneys .
region of the neurohypophysis which secretes neurohypophyseal hormones ,  regulating water loss and salt balance .
region of the adenohypophysis which secretes melanophore - stimulating hormone ,  affecting the integumentary chromatophores .
a cell of the embryo in the early stage following the blastula ,  characterized by morphogenetic cell movements ,  cell differentiation ,  and the formation of the three germ layers .
an undifferentiated cell produced by early cleavages of the fertilized egg  ( zygote )  .
a cell of the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell of the inner of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell of the middle germ layer of the embryo .
a strut of cartilage  extending dorsally from the basal plate and with other similar cartilages forming the sides of the brain case .
a dermal bone that forms anterior to the premaxillae between the maxillae and articulates with the nasals posteriorly .
bilaterally unpaired ventral element with which articulates with lateral paired elements .
anterior most migratory stream of cranial neural crest .
unpaired medial element that articulates with the anterior basibrachial i  ( if present )  .
sperm travel through these 4 or 5 fine ducts which pass through the mesorchium from the testis to the sexual kidney .
population of cranial neural crest that give rise to hyoid arch elements .
a small ,  ridge - like projection from the antero - ventral wall of the cloacal chamber .
a structure that surrounds the cloacal opening ,  consisting of a mass of coarse tubules .
a gland that contains toxic secretions within the lumen .
muscular vestibule between the pharynx and lungs ,  lying between the posterior cornua of the hyoid .
a series of semicircular cartilages on the side of the laryngo - tracheal chamber .
involved in the movement of the arytenoid cartilages .
involved in the movement of the arytenoid cartilages .
involved in the movement of the arytenoid cartilages .
is an endochondral structure located on the ventral to the junction between ,  in the hand ,  the metacarpal and most proximal phalanx of the digit and between phalanges ,  and in the foot between the metatarsal and most proximal phalanx of the digit and between phalanges .
a transient rod - like structure ventral to the notochord in salamander embryos .
a type of mucus and / or fluid secreting cell in larvae .
innervates m . rectus superior  ( m . dorsal rectus )  .
possibly chemoreceptor cells in anuran larvae .
innervates m . rectus medialis ,  m . rectus inferior ,  m . obliquus inferior .
type of cell that appears in epidermis during metamorphosis and is rich in mitochondria .
a mucous surface cell type known in tadpoles of xenopus .
protective membranes that surround amphibian embryos .
type of mucous - producing cell that appears in early larval stages and persists after metamorphosis .
a type of cell that develops in embryos and functions in embryonic movements .
one of the principal muscles used in swallowing .
one of the principal muscles used in swallowing .
first branch gives rise to two ramules that border the naris and innervate the surrounding tissue .
first branch gives rise to two ramules that border the naris and innervate the surrounding tissue .
retracts the hyoid and ,  therefore ,  the tongue .
deep ,  visceral muscle associated with tongue movement .
deep ,  visceral muscle associated with tongue movement .
distal part of the opthalmicus profundus gives rise to 2 ramules: palatinus and cutaneous .
involved in the movement of the head .
ramules that descends towards the buccal roof and give rise to several short branches that anastomose with palatine ramus of the facial nerve .
involved in the movement of the head .
many branches of the maxillary ramus that terminate in the integument of the maxillary region .
portion of the trigeminal nerve where the maxillary and mandibular rami run together prior to bifurcating .
descends and branches to the buccal roof where it anastomoses with the palatine ramus of the facial nerve .
muscle which originates on the posterior surface of the frontoparietal and the anterior part of the dorsal fascia .
endochondral element distal to terminal phalanx of hind digit .
is the proximal - most prepollical element .
is the distal - most prepollical element .
type of deciduous dentition found in foetuses and altricial juveniles of some caecilians .
muscle which arises from the dorsal m . levator scapulae and extends between the operculum and suprascapula .
muscle which originates on the prootic and the otic ramus of the squamosal and inserts on the anterior border of the suprascapula .
in the adult anuran ,  this innervates the muscles levator mandibulare internus and longus .
muscle which originates from the transverse process of presacral vertebrae iv and insert on the dorso - medial surface of the suprascapula .
muscle which originates from the transverse process of presacral vertebrae iv and inserts on the dorso - medial surface of the suprascapula beneath the insertion m . rhomboideus posterior .
muscle which originates from the transverse process of presacral vertebrae iii and inserts on the central and medial surface of the suprascapula .
muscle which originates as a posterior and anterior head .
responsible for the closing of the jaw .
muscle which originates from the ventral surface of the dorsal fascia and inserts on the deltoid crest of the humerus .
responsible for the closing of the jaw .
muscle which originates on the lateral surface of the suprascapulae and inserts on the deltoid crest of the humerus .
muscle which is responsible for the closing of the jaw .
responsible for the closing of the jaw .
muscle which originates from the ventro - medial surface of the suprascapula and inserts on the ventral surface of the scapula .
responsible for the closing of the jaw .
muscle which is responsible for the closing of the jaw .
muscle which originates on the anterior border of the distal part of the sternal horn and inserts antero - medially on the postero - dorsal surface of the epicoracoid cartilage .
the posttrematic branch of the facial nerve ,  both motor and sensory in function .
sensory branch of facial nerve from palatal region .
responsible for the closing of the jaw .
muscle which originates from the omosternum and epicoracoid cartilage and inserts on the proximal radioulna .
branchiomotor branch of the glossopharyngeus nerve innervating the m . subarcuales rectus i .
round ,  flat bone or cartilage that lies in the fenestra ovalis and articulates with the columella .
muscle which originates as a long belly from the dorsal coracoid near the sternum and inserts on the shaft of the humerus .
muscle which originates on the dorsal surface of the coracoid and scapula and inserts on the deltoid crest of the humerus .
muscle which originates from the medial condyle of the humerus and inserts on the carpus .
formed by fibers from the anterior semicircular canal and sacculus .
composed of two rami: a short ventral ramus innervating the cochlea  ( lagena and papille basilar )  ,  and a long dorsal ramus innervating the posterior semicircular canal .
originates from the medial epicondyle of the humerus and inserts on the palmar aponeurosis .
originates on the ulnar aspect of the radioulna and inserts on the palmar aponeurosis .
originates on the medial epicondyle of the humerus and inserts on the radial aspect of the radioulna .
an afferent branch of the vagus nerve .
originates along distal third of the ulna and inserts on the ulnare .
originates as a superior and inferior head .
originates on the lateral epicondyle of the humerus and inserts on the lower ridge of the radioulna .
originates on the lateral surface of the urostyle and inserts on the neural arch of the sacrum or on the sacral diapophysis .
originates on the lateral surface of the urostyle and passes ventral to the sacral diapophysis to insert on the anterior and medial surfaces of the ilial shaft .
originates on the anterior and lateral aspect of the ilial shaft and inserts on the transverse processes of presacral vertebrae iv - vii .
major branch of the vagus supplying parasympathetic innervation to viscera .
motor nervous branch of the vagus innervating m . subarcualis rectus i .
branch of the vagus nerve that separates from the vagus well postcranially ,  then continues anteriorly to innervate the larynx .
dorsal branch of adlln that innervates supraorbital line of neuromasts .
originates from the posterior tip of the urostyle and inserts on the cloacal musculature and the overlying skin .
ventral ramus of the adlln that innervates the infraorbital line of neuromasts .
a branch of the vagus nerve innervating heart ,  stomach ,  and lung muscle .
runs together with motor fibers of the hyomandibular trunk of vii .
originates on the postero - dorsal edge of the postzygopophyses and insert on the dorsal surface of the neural arch of the posterior ,  adjacent vertebra .
this ramule innervates the jugal line of neuromasts and is the dorsal branch of the ramus mandibularis externus .
originates on the posterior margin of the suprascapula and the epaxial fascia and inserts ventrally on the lateral fascia of the m . rectus abdominus and the ilial shaft .
a muscular sheet in which the fibers run in right angles to those of the m . oblique externus ,  slanting downward anteriorly .
a component of the rectus abdominal muscle that is some taxa .
a component of the rectus abdominal muscle that is some taxa  ( see comment )  forms a disctinct and separate muscle .
hypaxial muscle in which contraction elevates the ypsiloid cartilage ;  originates from the anterior edge of the lateral process of the ypsiloid cartilage and insert on the anteriorly adjacent inscription .
medial branch of the ramus mandibularis externus .
ventral branch of the ramus mandibularis externus .
small ramus of the mlln that innervates neuromasts located at the posterior margin of the otic capsule .
contraction depresses the ypsiloid cartilage ;  arises from the anterodorsal edge of the pubis deep to the m . rectus abdominis profundus and spreads anteriorly in a fan shape to insert on the lateral edges of the shaft and the posterior edges of the lateral processes of the ypsiloid cartilage  .
ramulus that innervates the suprabranchial line of neuromasts .
ramulus innervating the suprabranchial line of neuromasts .
ventral division of the trunk of the plln ,  this prominent ramus extends over the lateral trunk and caudal musculature innervating the lateral line of neuromasts .
this ramus leaves the postotic ganglionic complex together with the third branchial ramus of x .
originates on the internal border of the distal carpal 5 - 4 - 3 and inserts on the distal end of phalynx i .
peritoneum that surrounds the liver .
peritoneum that surrounds the stomach and intestines .
a projection on the suboccular arch ,  ventral to the muscular process ,  that serves as the articulation point for the lateral process of the ceratohyal of the hyobranchial skeleton .
fusion of the occipital segment or occipital ring and otic capsule  ( francis ,  1934 )  .
metameric segment forming the back of the skull .
a muscle slip arising from the ventral surface of the mandible by means of the ligament near the site of mandibular articulation .
a muscle slip arising from the lingual surface of the mandible on each side of the m . submentalis .
a muscle slip arising from the lingual surface of the mandible on the anterior portion of the bone .
portion of organism substance located within a cell .
the formation of bone or of a bony substanc ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
chondrogenic element that is composed of cartilage that is not replaced .
dermal bone that forms the postero - dorsal part of the opercular series .
endochondral bone that is median and is the anterior - most bone of the ventral hyoid arch .
cell of the notochord ,  often vacuolated or resembles a chondrocyte .
cell that has the potential to form a skeletal cell type  ( e .g . ,  cells in periosteum ,  cells in marrow )  and produce extracellular matrix  ( often mineralized )  and skeletal tissue  ( often mineralized )  .
skeletal tissue that is mineralized .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is median and is the anterior - most cartilage of the ventral hyoid arch .
epithelial cell that is large ,  vacuolated ,  and part of the notochord .
extracellular matrix that is mineralized .
a layer consisting mainly of proteins  ( especially collagen )  and glycosaminoglycans  ( mostly as proteoglycans )  that forms a sheet underlying or overlying cells such as endothelial and epithelial cells .
combination of protein fibers ,  ground substance and tissue fluid ;  typically has embedded cells .
small membrane bone homologous with a cartilage bone in more basal fishes  ( patterson ,  1977 )  .
odontogenic papilla that is located in the integument .
odontogenic papilla located along the jaws or pharyngeal skeleton .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to develop into an ameloblast .
skeletogenic cell that is derived from the notochordal mesoderm and produces notochordal tissue  ( and cartilage tissue in some taxa )  .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to form an odontoblast ,  deposits predentine ,  and arises from a neural crest cell .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to develop into a cementoblast .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to develop into a chondroblast ;  and arises from neural crest ,  meseosdermal and notochordal and connective tissue cells .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to transform into an osteoblast ,  and develops from neural crest or mesodermal cells .
multi - layer ganoid scale composed of ganoine and cellular bone .
thick ,  rhomboid - shaped integumentary skeletal element composed of multiple tissues including ganoine and bone .
connective tissue that is matrix - poor with large number of vacuolated cells .
multi - tissue structure composed of ganoine ,  dentine ,  elasmodine and cellular bone .
proteinaceous extracellular matrix that is avascular and consists primarily of glycosaminoglycans .
multi - tissue integumentary element composed dentine ,  elasmodine ,  and hypermineralized tissue .
multi - tissue structure composed of ganoine ,  dentine and bone ;  not known in extant taxa .
skeletal tissue that is mineralized ,  has large chondrocyte - like cells ,  sparse extracellular matrix ,  and minimal perichondrium ;  develops from non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
fold or elevation of the epidermis rich in keratin proteins ;  possibly calcified but does not contain skeletal elements .
multi - tissue integumentary element composed of enamel or enameloid ,  dentine and lamellar bone ,  and characterized by pore - canal system .
cartilage tissue that is part of the exoskeleton ,  deposited adjacent to bone after bone formation .
cartilage tissue that is mineralized .
skeletal subdivision that is part of the extra - oral dermal skeletal system that develops and remains invested within the integument ,  primarily the dermis .
odontoblast that non - terminally differentiated ,  located in the odontogenic papilla and dentine tissue ,  and transforms from a odontoblast cell .
odontoblast that is terminally differentiated and derived from an odontogenic papilla and associated with dentine .
odontoid tissue that typically contains tubules and is acellular .
odontogenic tissue that is hypermineralized acellular ,  noncollagenous ,  covered by an epidermis and often deposited in multiple layers .
hypermineralized tissue lacking collagen  ( except sharpey's fibres )  ,  developing in close proximity to the basal cells of the overlying epithelium .
dentine tissue that lacks dentine tubules and that is penetrated by blood capillaries .
odontogenic tissue that consists of multiple layers of collagen fibers organized in orthogonal or twisted arrangements .
hyaline cartilage tissue that is not mineralized .
hyaline cartilage tissue that is mineralized .
bone tissue mineralized with hydroxyapatite .
osteoblast that is terminally differentiated ,  located adjacent to acellular or cellular bone tissue within periosteum ,  and is capable of mineralizing the matrix .
osteoblast that is non - terminally differentiated and located in cellular bone tissue or under the periosteum in acellular bone .
mineralized bone tissue that always includes non - terminally differentiated osteoblasts and osteocytes .
avascular gag - rich matrix that is not mineralized .
avascular gag - rich matrix that is mineralized .
mineralized bone tissue that has terminally differentiated osteoblasts but lacks osteocytes .
skeletal tissue that is avascular tubular mineralized matrix ,  primarily made of dentine that is deposited by odontoblasts that are excluded from the matrix ;  develops from pre - dentine tissue .
sesamoid that develops within a tendon ,  distal to an articulation or joint .
ossification that does not require the replacement of pre - existing tissues ,  most often a cartilaginous model .
replacement element that forms as a replacement of a ligament .
ossification that requires the replacement of a pre - existing tissue prior to bone tissue formation .
direct ossification that occurs within mesenchyme with the formation of an osteogenic condensation not associated with a perichondrium .
direct ossification in which transformation of the pre - existing tissue occurs without dedifferentiation of cells or reinitiation of cell division ;  direct transformation of a non - bone tissue into a bone tissue .
replacement ossification wherein bone tissue replaces cartilage .
intramembranous ossification on the surface of a cartilage element as the perichondrium becomes a periosteum ,  without replacement of cartilage .
chondrogenic element that is composed of cartilage during development and has the potential to become replaced by another tissue .
sesamoid that develops within a ligament ,  distal to an articulation or joint .
dermal bone of pectoral girdle that is dorsal to and articulates with the cleithrum .
fin that is an unpaired fin located in the sagittal plane of the organism .
median fin that is located posterior to the anus .
the caudal fin is the most posterior median fin .
median fin skeleton that is located posterior to the anus .
median fin skeleton supporting the caudal fin .
median fin skeleton located on the dorsal surface of the organism .
postcranial axial skeleton that is unpaired and located on the sagittal plane of the organism .
skeletal subdivision of dermal bones that may include the anterolateral plate  ( al )  ,  the spinal process  ( sp )  ,  and anteroventral plate  ( av )  and other dermal bones that are part of the pectoral girdle .
dermal bone that is rod - like ,  formed and usually contained in a fin membrane ,  and jointed to or adjacent to distal radials .
lepidotrichium that is part of the pelvic fin skeleton .
lepidotrichium that is part of the caudal fin skeleton .
lepidotrichium that is part of the pectoral fin skeleton .
lepidotrichium that is part of the anal fin skeleton .
lepidotrichium that is part of the dorsal fin skeleton .
paired fin that is a bilaterally paired anterior outgrowth located high on the side of the animal ,  not far behind the orbit ,  with the posterior extremity corresponding with the expected posterior end of the branchial region .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone or cartilage tissue .
anatomical cluster that is an osteological unit consisting of the astragalus and calcaneum .
flange on the dorsal part of the humerus ,  associated with extensor musculature of the forelimb  ( manus .
anatomical surface that is part of a skeletal element and articulates with another skeletal element .
bony projection  ( peduncle )  that is located on the posterior portion of the ilium ,  posterior to the acetabulum .
second most proximal phalanx in manual or pedal digits .
posterior projection of the interclavicle that extends betwen and sometimes beyond the clavicles .
facet of scapulocoracoid with which the pectoral fin radial ( s )  articulates .
claws on the pes .
phalanx of the 7th pedal digit .
distinct notch ventral to the glenoid .
a bony process at the distal margin of the acetabulum formed by the ischium and / or the ischial peduncle of the ilium .
region of the ilium posterior and dorsal to the acetabulum .
the posterior of the two coracoid elements found in basal tetrapods .
dorsal fin located posterior to the anterior dorsal fin .
distinct posterior most of the two 'double heads' of the blade of the ilium .
a posteriorly directed bony projection from the ilium that is the attachment site of the iliofibularis muscle  ( see sumida ,  1997 )  .
lateral expansion of the parasphenoid .
soft tissue sheath covering the hemipenis .
facet to accommodate the radius on the distal end of the humerus .
hinge in the skull skeleton to allow for kinetic movement of different parts .
anatomical projection in the distal region of the femur .
soft tissue notch / opening lying on a spiracle .
anatomical projection in the posterior / distal region of the femur .
rib located anterior to the sacral region .
rib located in the trunk  ( ribcage )  area  ( i .e .
extratemporal bone: skull bone in the posterior half of the cranium ,  bordering the squamosal and opercular .
anteriorly projecting processes allowing de facto contact between consecutive vertebrae  ( some soft tissues are also present )  via articular facets .
the distinctive arrangement of four to ten spikes on the tails of stegosaurid dinosaurs .
the medial surface of the iliac blade .
the region of the pubis posterior to the acetabulum .
broad ,  convex expansion of the coracoid bone below the level of the glenoid .
a type of pectoral fin in which the endoskeletal elements have a main axis that runs through the center of the fin .
depression on the ventreal side of the femoral head .
medial facing projection or surface on the anterior  (  cranial )  region of the cleithrum that is often textured or denticled .
an anatomical projection ventral to the glenoid fossa on the scapulocoracoid that abuts on the cliethrum  ( if present )  .
the transverse pelvic ridge is a short crest directly anterior to ,  and not extending posterior to ,  the prominent supra - acetabular buttress  from pawley and warren 2006 .
joint that articulates left and right clavicles .
caudal fin lepidotrichium located ventral to the notochord .
a distinct bony ridge on ventralsurface of the humeral shaft that corresponds to the attachment site of the pectoralis muscle .
a centrale found in the pes .
flange present of the distal region of the humerus ,  associated with extensor musculature of forelimb .
surface of a long bone that possess the flexor muscle attachment sites .
projection on the lateral side of proximal part of the ulna [ phenoscape:ni ]  .
the medial most digits of the pes .
medial facing projection or surface on the anterior  (  cranial )  region of the cleithrum that is often textured or denticled .
an anatomical projection venteral to the glenoid fossa on the scapulocoracoid that abuts on the cliethrum .
an enlargement of the distal region of the calcaneum that corresponds to the attachment site for the foot extensor muscles .
process on ilium located anteriorly to acetabulum .
fossa on the medial surface on the scapula above the glenoid .
osteological unit consisting of the astragalus and calcaneum .
narrow bone that lies ventral to the level of insertion of the pectoral fin and is sutured to the posterior edges of both the clavicle and cleithrum .
a dorsal fin located anterior to posterior dorsal fin .
fossa located on the medial surface of the scapula above the glenoid
flattened process of the dorsl surface of the astragalus which contacts the tibia anteriorly .
foramen that perforates supraglenoid buttress .
a bony projection dorsal to the glenoid articulation on the scapulocoracoid .
a prominent ridge in basal tetrapods on the ventral side of the femur that includes the fourth trochater ,  internal trochanter and the adductor crest  ( based on coates ,  1996 )  .
a bony crest on venteral side of femur that is the attachment site for the adductor muscles .
raised surface at the posterior portion of the acetabulum  ( see nesbitt ,  2011 )  .
muscle that is associated with tail flexion .
expanded and flattened ventral region of clavicle bone .
expanded dorsal region of the cleithrum .
longitudnal bony ridge on tibia ,  attachment site of the major extensor muscle of the hind limb .
a boney projection on the internal diaphysis of the femur anterior or medial to the intertrochanteric fossa ,  below the femoral head .
a bony process that corresponds to the attachment site for the forelimb supinator muscles in tetrapods ,  distal to the deltopectoral crest and anterior to the radial condyle .
a marked depression on the medial side of the scapula blade ,  often opposite the glenoid region .
a bony protuberance dorsal to the acetabulum on the ilium ,  confluent with the supraacetabular crest  ( when present )  .
anatomical process located in the proximal region of the coracoid in avian theropods ,  that is hook - shaped .
the palmar aponeurosis is a fibrotendinous complex that functions as the tendinous extension of the palmaris longus ,  when present ,  and as a strong stabilizing structure for the palmar skin of the hand .
anatomical projection on the ilium ,  anchoring caudal muscles .
fossa located on the brevis shelf .
contact surface between the calcaneum and the astragalus located on the astragalus .
contact surface between the calcaneum and the astragalus located on the calcaneum .
the astragalo - calcaneal canal forms a foramen between the articulated astragalus and calcaneum when the canal is ossified  ( nesbitt ,  2011 )  .
morphological struture denoting the exent of an attachment site for a soft tissue on a skeletal element .
anatomical projection that is an expansion on the proximal region of the humerus .
a sesamoid found in the found in the ligamentum calcanei of a wide variety of frogs .
a cup shaped articular surface on a bone .
a notch or opening in the ventral part of the acetabular rim .
tuberosity on the posterior surface of the lateral femoral condyle
an internally and externally symmetrical tail  ( caudal )  fin
type of tail  ( caudal )  fin in which the vertebral column turns upwards into the upper lobe which is longer than the lower .
type of tail fin in which the vertebrae generally turn upward at the hind end of the column ,  but which is externally symmetrical .
type of tail fin where the lower lobe is the longer and is supported by the vertebral column .
formen present on the ectepicondyle of the humerus .
tail fin in which the the caudal part of the notochord tapers posterodorsally .
caudal fin lepidotrichium located upon or above the notochord .
posteriorly projecting bony tubercle that is located proximal to the lateral condyle of the femur .
a small plate of cartilage synchondrotically united with the pubis .
the vertical plate of bone or cartilage attached to the median line of the sternum .
fin spine that is part of a median fin .
a spine that is part of some fin .
an opening in the dermal armour of basal gnathostomes that encloses the pectoral fins .
a notch for the articulation of the clavicle on other girdle elements .
posteriordorsal process of the ilium .
a bony projection on the lateral side of the tibia ,  allowing contact between the later and the fibula .
zone of bone organ located on the flat ventral side of the distal region of the furcula ,  serving as attachment region for pectoral muscles .
centrale in the postaxial region of the mesopodium .
centrale in the preaxial side of the mesopodium .
the scapula's contribution to the glenoid fossa .
a constricted region of the ilium which is dorsal to the acetabulular region .
bony projection that is part of the dorsal surface of the ischim ,  where it articulates with the ilium .
bony projection that is part of the dorsal surface of the pubis where it meets the ilium .
articular surface on calcaneum for the fibula .
articular surface on the astragalus for the fibula .
region consisitng of the ethmoid and sphenoid bones .
eminence on the proximo - dorsal surface of the ungual ,  for attachment of flexor muscles .
the medial most digit of the manus skeleton .
process on infraspinous  ( region below the spine )  of scapula .
the deep fossa between the femoral condyles in which the cruciate ligaments are attached .
spine ventrally located on the body and not part of the pectoral ,  pelvic or anal fins .
expansion of the distal region of the ischium .
the most lateral of the paired series of extrascapular bones and is the bone where the intersection of the otic ,  postotic and extrascapular or supratemporal canals occur .
a bony process on the dorsal side of the proximal region of the humerus which corresponds to the insertion site of the latissimus dorsi muscle .
muscle that represents one branch of the larger triceps brachii ,  origination site near the glenoid fossa on the scapula .
dermal armour plate that is situated behind the head and constitute the dorsal most portion of the dermal shoulder girdle .
the medial of the the paired series of extrascapular bones which carries the extrascapular or supratemporal canal .
pits located on the proximodorsal part of metacarpals denoting the attachemnt sites for ligaments .
opening and / or passageway for nerve ( s )  in bone .
a distinct region on a skeletal element that demarcates the attachment area of a muscle or tendon .
process located on the ventral shaft of the ischium that denotes the attachment site of the pubio - ischio - femoralis externus .
the flanking digit of the manus .
the flanking digit of the pes .
spine located anterior to the pectoral fin
spine located anterior to the pelvic fin and posterior to the pectoral fin .
a triangular ,  anteroventrally facing area developed between the preaxial margin of the humerus and the proximal limb of the ventral humeral ridge .
elongate process forming the anteriormost part of the pubis .
an skeletal element of the upper pectoral girdle overlapped by the opercular and posttemporal bones .
slender bone connected to the carpus in pterosaurs .
anteroposterior expansion of the distal region of the pubis .
bony projection on the anterior portion of the ilium ,  anterior to the acetabulum that articulates with the pubis .
contact zone between the pubis and the ischium .
a broad expnase of bone incorperating both the pubis and the ischium .
a muscle that originates from the puboischaidic plate and inserts on the tibia .
originates in on the pubic cartillage and inserts on the tibia ,  acts to adduct the hindlimb .
the dorsal extension of the scapulocoracoid above the level of the glenoid region in basal gnathostomes .
anatomical projections that are  elongate processes in the mid and posterior regions of the sternum .
anatomical projection  ( crest )  located dorsaly to the acetabulum .
bony rim that is part of the supraacetabular region .
the route through which structures pass between the base of the neck and the posterior scapular region .
series of fused cervical vertebrae or vertebral elements .
axial subdivision that includes a series of fused cervical vertebrae or vertebral elements .
facet for the articulation of the tibia on the astragalus  ( talus )  .
anatomical projection on the anterolateral region of the proximal end of the femur .
eminence or swelling on anatomical surface .
a ridge or similar projection rising above the surface of an anatomical structure .
a part in the body of an organism that corresponds to an opposite symmetrical part .
a transverse flattened or cylindrical plate in the posterior body wall opposite the anterior ends of the pelvic fins ,  in front of the vent and at the posterior end of the body cavity ,  that supports a few anterior pelvic radials and a basal cartilage ,  the basipterygium .
a caudal fin with three lobes .
endochondral element that is part of the suspensorium sometimes ossifying distally as the quadrate bone and linking the basal section of the braincase to the lower jaw .
is a endochondral element that is part of the mesopodial skeleton and is contained within the prepollex which in some taxa appears as a pre - axial digit - like projection anterior to the first digit of the hand .
is a endochondral element that is part of the mesopodial skeleton and is contained within the prehallux which in some taxa appears as a pre - axial digit - like projection anterior to the first digit of the foot .
foramen found on the humerus of tetrapodomorphs beyond the entepicondyle and ectepicondyle foramen .
sesamoid bone in the tarsal region .
a collection of attached ridges on the ventrl surface of the femur consisting of the internal and fourth trochanters plus the adductor blade and crest .
the median series of bones supporting the pectoral fin of sarcopterygian fish .
a scute parte of the basal surface of the fin in sarcopterygian fish
the space between the bones of the tibia and the fibula .
process on the humerus of basal tetrapods ,  anterior to the entepicondyle and associated with subscapularis muscle  ( based on coates 1996 ) 
process on the humerus of basal tetrapods ,  anterior to the entepicondyle  ( see coates 1996 ) 
process on the humerus of basal tetrapods ,  anterior to the entepicondyle  ( see coates 1996 ) 
the area encompassing the radial and ulnar condyles of the humerus .
a bony dorsal extension of the clavicle .
the moon shaped fusion of distal carpals 1 and 2 found in some theropod dinosaurs ,  permitting greater wrist mobility .
the region of the astragalus /  talus that carries the articular surface for the navicular .
the rough eminence which is on the anterior inner aspect of the neck of the radius and into which the tendon of the biceps is inserted .
his roughened area of bone sits distomedially at the base of the coronoid process .
a fossa on the distal humerus proximal to the entepicondyle .
increase the number of phalanges per digit beyond their ancestral digital \ nformulas .
an articular process on anterior surface of neural arch of vertebrae which fits into zygantrum .
anatomical project part of the blade of the ilium that projects posteriorly .
the anteriormost of the two possible elements found in the tetrapod centrum  ( when the centrum is not a single element )  .
the posteriormost of the two possible elements found in the tetrapod centrum  ( when the centrum is not a single element )  .
the intercentrum unit of the atlas vertebra .
ridge or keel at the proximal end of the humerus .
process that is part of the mandible that is in close proximity to the incisor teeth .
ciliary restraint system in the inner ear that uses sallets instead of the tectorial membrane .
facet on the ulna for articulation with the ulnar condyle of the humerus .
facet on the radius for articulation with the radial condyle of the humerus .
the internal part of the rim denoting the coracoid foramen .
radial bone found in between the proximal and distal radial bones .
a projection on the postaxial region of the ulnare .
a projection on the postaxial region of the femur .
a projection on the postaxial region of the fibula .
facets for the articulation of the epipodial  ( zeugopodial )  elements .
line of junction between two parts immovably connected .
facet on the femur for the fibula .
facet on the femur for the tibia .
a collection of muscle and tendinous tissue .
distinct layer that indicate the growth of an organism .
groove along the distal margin of the humerus ,  ventral to the radial and ulnar condyle .
foramen located on the scapulocoracoid ,  located just behind the cleithral anteroventral process ( the articulation with the cleithrum )  .
modified from garvey et al .
muscle found primarily in basal sarcopterygians that runs between teh scapulocoracoid and the humerus .
a ramus of the celithrum that descend along the girdle .
an anatomical surface that is part of a bone
a bone surface that is not smooth and periosteal .
a smooth periosteal bone surface .
a process ,  extending dorsally from the clavicular plate ,  that attaches to the cleithrum .
 . . .a v - shaped pair of ridges ,  each carrying three or four smallpores modified from ahlberg et al .
bone ,  often with tooth attachments ,  on the lingual side of the anterior of the lower jaw .
the ossification of the meckel's cartilage .
 a fossa that is a depression in the proximal end of the maxilla involved in articulation with the palatine .
a process on the palatine that projects outward and upward and articulates with a depression  ( maxillary saddle )  in the proximal end of the maxilla .
paired ,  thin dermal bones at the rear of the caudal fin skeleton ,  derived from scales .
a continuous flap of skin with scales implanted in pockets or invaginations .
the space in the pupil ,  which is not occupied by the lens .
a series of scales in alignment with each other along some axis of the body .
process that is posteriorly oriented and medially located on the basipterygium .
anatomical cluster that consists of the epipleurals .
a rudder - like lobe formed from extensions of dorsal and anal fin rays .
cartilage element associated with the pelvic fin in aulopiform fishes .
dermal bone formed by the fusion of dermethmoids and rostral bones .
in the clasper skeleton ,  a flat semicylindrical cartilage that is partially fused to the lateral edge of the axial cartilage ,  and forms the lateral wall of the clasper groove .
the large cartilage of the dorsal fin ,  on which the radials articulate distally .
the large cartilage of the anal fin ,  on which the radials articulate distally .
dermal bone that is part of the scapular complex in placoderm fishes . "
dermal bone that is part of the scapular complex in placoderms .
dermal bone that is part of the scapular complex in placoderms ."
dermal bone that is part of the scapular complex in placoderms ."
dermal bone that is part of the scapular complex in placoderms . "
dermal bone that is part of the scapular complex in placoderms . "
dermal bone that is part of the scapular complex in placoderms . "
dermal articulation between skull and shoulder girdle localized to paired dermal neck - joint between anterior dorsolateral plate  ( adl )  and paranuchal  ( pnu )  plates in placoderms ."
membrane that connects the lepidotrichia or ceratotrichia of a fin .
the large cartilage of the posterior dorsal fin ,  on which the radials articulate distally .
the large cartilage of the anterior dorsal fin ,  on which the radials articulate distally .
cartilage element on the neurocranium of sawsharks and batoids ,  separate cartilages attached to the sides of the nasal capsules that support the sides or front of the head .
endochondral element that is median and located in the dorsal skeletogenous septum between the cranium and the dorsal fin .
fin ray that is composed of bone tissue .
a small smooth area on a bone or other firm structure .
the x bone is a detached neural spine anterior to the neural spine of preural centrum 2 .
the y bone is a detached neural spine anterior to the haemal spines of preural centrum 2 .
anal fin pterygiophore that is the anteriormost of the series .
anal fin spine that is the anteriormost element of the series .
anal fin spine that is located posteriorly adjacent to the first anal fin spine .
a small to large enameloid - covered ,  dentine - cored spine located on the anterior margins of one or both of the dorsal fins ,  found on bullhead sharks  ( heterodontiformes )  ,  many dogfish sharks ,  fossil  ( but not living )  batoids ,  chimaeroids ,  but lost entirely or buried in the fin bases of other shark - like fishes .
scale that is posteriorly adjacent to the pectoral girdle .
pectoral fin lepidtrichium that is small ,  unbranched and unsegmented .
a paired dermal bone in gasterosteiformes connected with the coracoid and extending posteriorly .
caudal vertebra that is the anteriormost element of the series .
zone of bone organ that is the ventral extension of the posttemporal .
zone of bone organ that is part of a lepidotrich and connected to other segments by collagen fibers .
lepidotrichial segment that is part of the proximal region of a caudal fin ray .
endochondral element that separates the olfactory region from the orbit ,  extends medially to meet its fellow medially below the frontal bones and is bordered by the mesethmoid anteriorly .
lepidotrichial segment that is part of the distal region of a caudal fin ray .
 an adhesive disk modified from the pelvic fins in ,  for example ,  clingfishes  ( gobiesocidae )  ,  gobies  ( gobiidae )  and snailfishes  ( liparidae )  .
distinctive first dorsal fin taking the form of a modified oval sucker - like organ with slat - like structures that open and close to create suction and take a firm hold against the skin of larger marine animals .
soft ray that is part of the dorsal fin .
soft ray that is part of the pelvic fin .
 region surrounding the glenoid fossa on the scapulocoracoid .
region of dorsal fin that is composed of spinous rays  ( vs soft rays )  .
a fossa on the posterior median part of the neural arch of a vertebra  ( as of a snake )  that accommodates the zygosphene of the next vertebra .
anatomical region lying to the anterior or dorsal side of the metapterygial axis .
the intercentrum unit of the axis vertebra .
ridge that is part of the ilium .
tectorial restraint system is a type of ciliary restraint system for hair cells in the inner ear .
bony protuberance on the external surface of the occipital bone .
elements of the sacrum joining true sacral vertebrae to pelvis .
cloacal glands that secrete into the dorsal roof of the cloacal tube and or the anterior cloacal chamber .
foramen for the passage of the glossopharyngeal nerve ix .
 the region of the upper jaw on or near the midline .
region of the braincase which bears the facets for the hyomandibula in fishes .
tooth of the upper jaw that is adjacent to the upper jaw symphysis .
the region of an anatomical structure  ( such as a tooth or jaw bone )  facing the tongue .
the region of an anatomical structure ,  such as a tooth or jaw bone ,  facing the lips .
the region of an anatomical structure ,  such as a tooth or jaw bone ,  oriented posteriorly and facing the lips .
the region of an anatomical structure ,  such as a tooth or jaw bone ,  facing the midline of the jaw .
foramen for the passage of the internal carotid artery .
foramen for the profundus or ophthalmic nerve  [ phenoscape:ad ] 
subdivision of organism that is the basal region of the pectoral fin .
membrane organ that is usually supported by branchiostegal rays and forms the ventral and posterior wall of the gill cavity .
cartilage element that lies between processes of the cleithrum and pelvic girdle in gobioid fishes .
accessory nasal sacs are found in a variety of teleosts  ( webb ,  1993 )  and likely assist in ventilating the olfactory epithelium by transmitting pressure ﬂuctuations associated with gill irrigation from theoral cavity to the nasal  ( or sensory )  sac  ( jakubowski , 1975 ;  webb ,  1993 ;  belanger et al . ,  2003 )  .
sharpey's fibres  ( bone fibres ,  or perforating fibres )  are a matrix of connective tissue consisting of bundles of strong collagenous fibres connecting periosteum to bone .
a ventrally projecting spur on the posteriormost ventral procurrent caudal ray overlapping ventrally the preceding ray in various percomorphs  ( johnson ,  1975 )  .
unpaired bone that covers the base of the first pectoral ray .
region in the middle of the shaft of a long bone  ( e .g .
a paired fin bud that develops into a pectoral fin .
a paired fin bud that develops into a pelvic fin .
a finger - like out - pocketing of the intestine where it meets the end of the stomach  ( pylorus )  .
fin spine that precedes the dorsal fin ,  oriented anteriorly towards the head of the fish .
branch of supraorbital sensory canal that extends to the parietal .
tooth row consisting of replacement teeth .
tooth row on the premaxilla that is lingually located relative to other tooth rows .
the fleshy throat region of a fish which extends forward from the ventral part of the chest and narrows anteriorly ,  and externally separating the two gill chambers ;  that narrowed portion of the breast which lies between the gill chambers and separates them .
sclerotic cartilage that is located posterior to the eye .
sclerotic cartilage that is located anterior to the eye .
neural spine that is associated with the fifth vertebra .
neural spine that is associated with the sixth vertebra .
neural spine that is associated with the seventh vertebra .
anatomical cluster that is located in the oral cavity and consists of modifications to the skin on the roof of the mouth into three primary skin folds .
the posteriormost scale in a scale series .
parapophysis that is the lateral projection from the third centrum .
postcranial axial skeletal element and weberian ossicle that is located dorsal to the scaphium .
pelvic fin lepidotrichium that is distally branched and segmented .
anal fin lepidotrichium that is not distally branched .
a light - emitting organ which appears as luminous spots on various marine animals ,  including fish and cephalopods .
consists of a set of tubuli occupying the space between the external dermal bones above the dorsal and anterior wal of the nasal capsule below .
more or less concentric lines of discontinuity in the cosmine of dipnoi ,  probably due to cyclic resorption and redeposition during growth occurring on the bases of individual scales and also as large structures between headshield plates .
radial found above the vertebral column .
dermal bone of the lower jaw .
dermal bones  ( postparietals ,  supratemporals ,  intertemporals ,  extrascapulars )  posterior to the intracranial joint .
fossa for epaxial musculature inserting on the braincase .
the braincase of most plesiomorphic sarcopterygians is divided by the intracranial point into ethmosphenoid and otic - occipital portions each covered by dermal bones .
the dorsal portion of the endocranium that covers the orbital region .
structures that communicate with the main olfactory chamber and may be located posterior ,  ventral ,  or dorsal to it .
ligament between the palatine and maxilla .
ligament that connects the ventromedial end of the lacrimal to the anguloarticular  ( or ‘mandible’ )  .
a series of plate like bones found ventrally to the jaw .
dorsal gill - arch muscle connecting right and left epibranchial 2s .
body plates on the lateral sides of the body that occur as single bilateral rows and their number is highly heritable .
odontoid tissue forming a cap on teeth found in teeth of actinopterygian fishes .
postcranial axial skeletal element located dorsal to vertebra 1 .
postcranial axial skeletal element located dorsal to vertebra 2 .
postcranial axial skeletal element located dorsal to vertebrae 3 and 4 .
supraneural element dorsal to neural spine 4 .
supraneural element dorsal to neural spine 5 .
supraneural element dorsal to neural spine 6 .
supraneural element dorsal to neural spine 7 .
supraneural element dorsal to neural spine 8 .
supraneural element dorsal to neural spine 9 .
scale that is adjacent to the pelvic fin and aligned with the origin of the pelvic fin .
vertebral bone lacking hemal spines  ( weitzman ,  1962 )  ,  refers generally to the anterior vertebral region bounding the abdominal cavity .
vertebral elements lacking hemal spines  ( weitzman ,  1962 )  ,  refers generally to the anterior vertebral region bounding the abdominal cavity .
vertebral cartilage elements lacking hemal spines  ( weitzman ,  1962 )  ,  refers generally to the anterior vertebral region bounding the abdominal cavity .
mesenchyme that is part of a forelimb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a hindlimb bud .
mesechyme that is part of a pectoral fin bud .
mesechyme that is part of a pelvic fin bud .
a wing bud that develops into a wing
mesenchyme that is part of a forelimb wing bud .
calcareous tooth with a hyptertrophied base .
series of scales in which each scale envelopes or overlaps an adjacent scale .
a cycloid scale bearing a serrated margin ;  superficially similar to ctenoid scales but having spines as outgrowths of the scale as oppose to true ctenii .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the seventh centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the eighth centrum .
hindlimb that is used to propel an animal through water .
ossicle that surrounds the sensory canals of the snout when passing from the ethmoidal commissure to the infraorbital series and have first been noticed by nybelin  [ 14 ]  in elops .
sensory canal that traverses the rostral bone .
the sixth scale in the lateral line series .
premaxillary tooth that is the second tooth in a premaxillary tooth series ,  and positioned adjacent to the symphyseal tooth .
premaxillary tooth that is the third tooth in a premaxillary tooth series ,  and positioned adjacent to the second tooth .
dentary tooth that is the second tooth in a dentary tooth series ,  and positioned adjacent to the symphyseal tooth .
dentary tooth that is the third tooth in a dentary tooth series ,  and positioned adjacent to the symphyseal tooth .
single hypural element formed from the fusion of hypural 1 and 2 .
foramen that has the exoccipital as the anterior and dorsal rim .
the ethmo - palatine cartilage  ( epc )  is a distinct body situated between the posterior surface of the upper arm of the premaxilla and the anterior margin of the palatine .
process that is part of the pectoral fin lepidotrichium .
process that is part of the pelvic fin lepidotrichium .
extension of the exoccipital that extends over the posttemporal fossa .
tooth row on the premaxilla that is labially located relative to other tooth rows .
cartilage element adjacent to neural spine of preural centrum .
cartilage element adjacent to haemal spine of preural centrum .
soft ray that is part of the adipose fin .
a backwards extension of the third circumorbital bone  ( part of the lateral head / cheek skeleton ,  below the eye socket )  across the cheek to the preoperculum ,  to which it is connected in most species  [ wikipedia ] 
the posterior and innermost of the three principal basal cartilages in the fins of fishes .
elastoidin fin ray that is thickened ,  generally unbranched and found in the fins of chondrichthyes .
a rod - like entity that functions in support of fin folds and fins
fin ray that is composed of elastoidin ,  unmineralized ,  and unsegmented .
fin ray found in dipnoans that are composed of a superficial region of acellular fibrous bone ,  and a deep ,  mostly unmineralized ,  zone  ( géraudie and meunier 1982 ) 
lepidotrichium that is part of a paired fin .
uroneurals that form the uppermost three uroneural series that overlap ,  and lie at an angle to ,  longer anterior ones .
scale that is part of row along the midline between the dorsal fin and the back of the skull .
median fin skeleton supporting the adipose fin .
tubular ossifications around extension of nasal lateral line canal in fishes ;  typically one or two .
soft ray that is part of the anal fin .
soft ray that is part of the pectoral fin .
lepidotrichium that is part of a median fin .
fin spine that is part of a paired fin .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that is not distally branched .
pelvic fin lepidotrichium that is not distally branched .
anatomical cluster that consists of the hypobranchial elements within an individual .
anatomical cluster that consists of the pharyngobranchial elements within an individual .
anatomical cluster that consists of the basibranchial elements within an individual .
pharyngeal arch bone immediately posterior to the ascending process ,  the medial surface of which articulates with the anterior end of the maxillary .
pharyngeal arch bone located between uncinate process of epibranchial 1 and pharyngobranchial 2 .
process of the premaxilla that extends upward ,  and often lies against the medial surface of the maxillary .
pelvic fin distal radial element that is composed of cartilage tissue
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 2 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 3 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 4 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 2 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 3 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 4 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 2 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 3 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 4 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 6 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 7 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 8 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 6 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 7 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 8 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of alular digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual major digit  ( aves )  plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual minor digit  ( aves )  plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of a single digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 2 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 3 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 4 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 2 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 3 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 4 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 2 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 3 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 4 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 6 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 7 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 8 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 6 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 7 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 8 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of alular digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual major digit  ( aves )  plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual minor digit  ( aves )  plus the associated metapodial element .
the three main divisions of the whole organism formed from groups of segments .
head segment derived from the second embryonic segment  ( between the labral and antennal segments )  .
any segment that is part of some head .
a segment that is anterior to the gnathal segments .
procephalic segment anterior to the antennal segment .
segment anterior to the intercalary segment .
the head segments that develop posterior to the embryonic / larval mouth .
most posterior of the gnathal segments .
the main middle section of the insect body comprising three thoracic rings: the pro -  ,  the meso -  and the metathoraces which are more or less well fused and cask - like sometimes having on the upper lateral part one of two pairs of wings ,  while on the ventrolateral part each thoracic ring bears a pair of legs .
any segment  ( uberon:6000003 )  that is part of some thorax  ( uberon:6000015 )  .
the first  ( most anterior )  segment of the thorax .
the second  ( middle )  segment of the thorax .
the third  ( most posterior )  segment of the thorax .
the most posterior of the three tagma  ( uberon:6000002 )  .
metameric subdivision of the abdomen .
paired appendage of the eggshell ,  located on the anterior - dorsal side of the egg ,  just posterior to the operculum .
the region of the ectoderm anterior to the cephalic furrow .
the mesoderm of segments t1 - a9 .
any tagma  ( uberon:6000002 )  that is part of some embryo  ( uberon:6000052 )  .
any segment that is part of some embryo .
any segment that is part of some embryonic head .
any procephalic segment  ( uberon:6000007 )  that is part of some embryonic head  ( uberon:6000155 )  .
any antennal segment  ( uberon:6000009 )  that is part of some embryonic head  ( uberon:6000155 )  .
any gnathal segment  ( uberon:6000011 )  that is part of some embryonic head  ( uberon:6000155 )  .
any labial segment  ( uberon:6000014 )  that is part of some embryonic head  ( uberon:6000155 )  .
any thorax  ( uberon:6000015 )  that is part of some embryo  ( uberon:6000052 )  .
any segment  ( uberon:6000003 )  that is part of some embryonic thorax  ( uberon:6000166 )  .
prothoracic segment of the embryo .
mesothoracic segment of the embryo .
metathoracic segment of the embryo .
abdomen of the embryo .
metameric subdivision of the embryonic abdomen .
any abdominal segment 8  ( uberon:6000029 )  that is part of some embryonic abdomen  ( uberon:6000171 )  .
any abdominal segment 9  ( uberon:6000030 )  that is part of some embryonic abdomen  ( uberon:6000171 )  .
the sum of all the structures in the embryo that will develop into the embryonic / larval nervous system .
the sum of all the structures in the embryo that will develop into the embryonic / larval central nervous system .
brain of the embryo .
an equivalence group of the neurectoderm where all cells can ,  although only one will ,  become a neural progenitor cell .
embryonic structure that will proliferate during larval development into a larval imaginal disc .
population of contiguous ,  morphologically distinct cells that will form an imaginal disc .
primordium that will form the labial disc .
primordium from which the eye - antennal disc develops .
primordium from which the genital disc develops .
primordium from which the male genital disc derives .
primordium from which the female genital disc derives .
tubular system of the embryo / larva through which hemolymph flows .
hematopoietic organ of the larva ,  located along the dorsal vessel ,  behind the brain .
a closely associated cluster of three neuroendocrine glands located anterior to the aorta and dorsal to the esophagus .
any tagma  ( uberon:6000002 )  that is part of some larva  ( uberon:6001727 )  .
any segment that is part of some larva .
any head that is part of some larva .
any ocular segment  ( uberon:6000005 )  that is part of some larval head  ( uberon:6001730 )  .
any segment that is part of some larval head .
any procephalic segment  ( uberon:6000007 )  that is part of some larval head  ( uberon:6001730 )  .
any labral segment  ( uberon:6000008 )  that is part of some larval head  ( uberon:6001730 )  .
any antennal segment  ( uberon:6000009 )  that is part of some larval head  ( uberon:6001730 )  .
any gnathal segment  ( uberon:6000011 )  that is part of some larval head  ( uberon:6001730 )  .
any labial segment  ( uberon:6000014 )  that is part of some larval head  ( uberon:6001730 )  .
any thorax  ( uberon:6000015 )  that is part of some larva  ( uberon:6001727 )  .
any segment  ( uberon:6000003 )  that is part of some larval thorax  ( uberon:6001741 )  .
any prothoracic segment  ( uberon:6000017 )  that is part of some larval thorax  ( uberon:6001741 )  .
any mesothoracic segment  ( uberon:6000018 )  that is part of some larval thorax  ( uberon:6001741 )  .
any metathoracic segment  ( uberon:6000019 )  that is part of some larval thorax  ( uberon:6001741 )  .
any abdomen  ( uberon:6000020 )  that is part of some larva  ( uberon:6001727 )  .
any segment  ( uberon:6000003 )  that is part of some larval abdomen  ( uberon:6001746 )  .
any abdominal segment 8  ( uberon:6000029 )  that is part of some larval abdomen  ( uberon:6001746 )  .
any abdominal segment 9  ( uberon:6000030 )  that is part of some larval abdomen  ( uberon:6001746 )  .
imaginal precursor that is part of the embryo / larva .
imaginal disc that ,  in the adult ,  gives rise to the proboscis ,  including the prementum ,  prestomal cavity ,  labellum ,  labellar cap and pseudotrachea  ( cohen ,  1993 )  .
imaginal disc that in the adults gives rise to the labrum ,  anterior and posterior cibarial plates ,  fish trap bristles ,  epipharyngeal sclerite and clypeus  ( cohen ,  1993 )  .
imaginal disc that ,  in the adults ,  gives rise to the eye ,  antenna ,  head capsule  ( including all bristles and external membranes )  and the maxillary palps  ( cohen ,  1993 )  .
posterior portion of the eye - antennal disc .
imaginal disc that is a precursor of dorsal thoracic structures of the adult .
dorsal imaginal disc of the mesothorax .
dorsal imaginal disc of the metathorax .
imaginal disc that is a precursor of ventral thoracic structures of the adult .
imaginal disc of the ventral prothoracic segment .
imaginal disc that gives rise to the internal and external genitalia ,  analia and adult hind gut  ( cohen ,  1993 )  .
genital disc that gives rise to the penis and external genitalia ,  sperm pump ,  ejaculatory duct ,  paragonia and vas deferens ,  anal plates and adult hindgut  ( cohen ,  1993 )  .
genital disc that gives rise to the vagina and vaginal plates ,  uterus ,  parovaria ,  spermatheca ,  seminal recepticle ,  oviducts ,  female analia and hindgut .
a progenitor of the adult external abdomen .
one of several groups of cells in the larval abdomen that gives rise to the adult external abdomen .
a group of connected sclerites of the anterior embryonic / larval digestive system  ( atrium ,  pharynx and dorsal pouch )  .
unpaired sclerite to which the median tooth  ( labrum )  posteriorly merges ,  and bears the cuticular pores of the labral sense organ .
nervous system of the embryo / larva .
central nervous system of the embryo / larva .
brain of the embryo / larva .
protocerebrum of the embryo / larva .
any sense organ that is part of some larva .
any embryonic / larval sense organ  ( uberon:6002639 )  that is part of some larval ocular segment  ( uberon:6001731 )  .
any tagma  ( uberon:6000002 )  that is part of some adult  ( uberon:6003004 )  .
segment of the adult .
head of the adult organism .
segment of the adult head .
any procephalic segment  ( uberon:6000007 )  that is part of some adult head  ( uberon:6003007 )  .
any labral segment  ( uberon:6000008 )  that is part of some adult head  ( uberon:6003007 )  .
any antennal segment  ( uberon:6000009 )  that is part of some adult head  ( uberon:6003007 )  .
thorax of the adult .
any segment  ( uberon:6000003 )  that is part of some adult thorax  ( uberon:6003018 )  .
any prothoracic segment  ( uberon:6000017 )  that is part of some adult thorax  ( uberon:6003018 )  .
any mesothoracic segment  ( uberon:6000018 )  that is part of some adult thorax  ( uberon:6003018 )  .
abdomen of the adult .
any abdominal segment  ( uberon:6000021 )  that is part of some adult abdomen  ( uberon:6003023 )  .
muscle system of the adult .
muscle attached to the inner surface of the adult body wall ,  extending between articulated or flexibly joined areas ,  that serves to move the parts of the exoskeleton .
central nervous system of the adult .
brain of the adult .
the pre - oral neuropils of the brain located above and some of it below the esophagus ,  comprising three fused ganglia  ( protocerebrum ,  deutocerebrum ,  and tritocerebrum )  in the head .
the most anterior of the segmental subdivisions of the insect cns ;  thought to represent the first pre - oral segment of the brain .
a midline crossing complex of 4 synaptic neuropil domains of the adult brain: the ellipsoid body ,  the fan - shaped body ,  the paired noduli ,  and the protocerebral bridge .
a row of darkly pigmented ,  male specific chaetae located on the prothoracic metatarsal segment of the prothoracic leg .
the posteriorly oriented trichome of a cell of the wing blade .
a region of integument whose external cuticular part is a hard ,  sclerotized plate .
the dorsal plate  ( sclerite )  of an adult abdominal segment .
an adult ventral sclerite .
highly specialised ,  slender sixth segment of the antenna covered in bristle - like outgrowths known as laterals .
the anterior part of the head between the frons and the labrum ,  which occasionally may fuse with either one to form the frontoclypeus and the clypeolabrum .
the trunk - like extension of adult head ,  forming a protrusible sucking proboscis for the ingestion of liquid food  ( pg 425 miller et al . ,  1950 ;  pg 383 ,  ferris et al . ,  1950 )  .
the upper ,  originally unpaired plate of the segmented insect body ,  which either independently or fused with a ventral plate covers the body dorsally ,  specifically that of the thorax .
the dorsal sclerites  ( tergites )  of the mesothorax .
a segment of the tarsus of the adult leg .
the first of the tarsal segments of the adult leg .
leg of the prothoracic segment .
tarsal segment of the adult prothoracic leg .
first tarsal segment of the prothoracic leg .
non - innervated projection of the cuticle around an actin - rich cellular process of an underlying epidermal cell .
structure that proliferates to produce a larval imaginal disc and which gives rise to adult tissues  ( bate and martinez arias ,  1991 )  .
deep and narrow pit formed by the invagination of a tracheal placode in a late extended germ band embryo .
primordium of a single tracheal metamere of the embryonic / larval tracheal system from its appearance as a placode during stage 11 to the completion of fusion with adjacent tracheal metameres in stage 15 / 16 .
opening of the tracheal system on the surface of the body .
a group of small ,  interconnected ganglia situated posterior to and between the two brain hemispheres and associated with the pharynx ,  esophagus and aorta .
a sensillum with a long ,  unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly chitinized .
the border or edge of the wing .
 \ "anlagen in statu nascendi \ " are domains that do not yet coincide 1:1 with a later organ .
the sum of all the structures in the embryo that will develop into the embryonic / larval tracheal system .
visual organ of the larva .
a bristle - like ,  non - innervated outgrowth of the arista .
the developing adult after pupal - adult apolysis ,  i .e .
region of the dorsal mesothoracic disc that will develop into the mesothoracic tergum .
first tarsal segment of the male prothoracic leg .
the region of the ectoderm posterior to the cephalic furrow .
a synaptic neuropil domain of the larval brain located posterior to the medial lobe of the mushroom body .
the sum of all the developing presumptive components of a specific embryonic / larval system in an embryo .
protocerebrum of the adult brain .
any appendage segment that is part of some antenna .
any appendage segment  ( uberon:6007018 )  that is part of some leg  ( uberon:6004640 )  .
sensillum which is embedded in the body wall and has a specific cuticular structure involved in the transduction of some sensory signal as a part .
sensillum with innervated external cuticular sensory structure consisting of one or more bipolar sensory neurons ,  and 3 support cells: a trichogen cell which makes the external cuticular sensory structure ,  a thecogen cell which makes the socket that holds the base of the external sensory structure and a tormogen cell which makes the cuticular matrix  ( cap )  at the tip of the innervating dendrite ( s )  .
sensillum that is internal to the animal  -  i .e .
any sensillum  ( uberon:6007152 )  that is part of some larva  ( uberon:6001727 )  .
any sensillum  ( uberon:6007152 )  that is part of some larval head  ( uberon:6001730 )  .
specialized structure of the chorion of the egg .
any sense organ  ( uberon:6005155 )  that is part of some larval head  ( uberon:6001730 )  .
a region of cuticle and its underlying epidermis .
a segmental subdivision of the integument of the whole animal .
the part of some organism that is part of some specified segment .
sense organ that is internal to the animal  -  i .e .
a region of an epithelium that folds inwards from the epithelial plane to form a furrow .
the sum of all the anlagen and primordia that will develop into a single system .
the part of the neuropil consisting largely of synapsing neuron projections .
region of synaptic neuropil whose boundaries are largely discontinuities in the density of presynaptic terminals: high density in the synaptic neuropil domain ,  lower or zero density outside this region .
a closely associated group of synaptic neuropil domains .
a row of sensilla .
the pre - oral neuropils of the adult brain located above ,  around and partially below the esophagus ,  including the optic lobes .
region of the prothoracic leg disc that will develop into the prothoracic metatarsus .
region of the antennal disc that will develop into the arista .
the distal - most point of the medial condyle of a femur .
the distal - most point of the trochlea of a humerus .
outermost point of a tail .
an anatomical line along a tail that extends from the first caudal vertebra to the last cuadal vertebra .
an anatomical line of a ear that connects the helix of the outer ear to the intertragus incisure of an ear .
an anatomical line of a hindfoot that connects the distal - most part of the longest nail to the posterior - most part of a foot .
the posterior - most point of a foot .
the distal - most point of a cutaneous appendage .
the distal - most point of a digit .
an anatomical line of a hindfoot that connects the end of the longest digit to the posterior - most part of a foot .
an anatomical line of a body that connects the tip of the nose to the posterior - most part of the sacrum .
an anatomical line of a body that connects the tip of the nose to the posterior - most part of a tail .
an anatomical line of a femur that connects the medial condyle to the greater trochanter .
the proximal - most point of the head of a femur .
the proximal - most point of the head of a humerus .
the proximal - most point of the ventral tubercle of a humerus .
the proximal - most point of the greater trochanter of a femur .
an anatomical line of a femur that connects the medial condyle to the head of a femur .
an anatomical line of a humerus that connects the trochlea to the proximal head .
the molar tooth of the lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 4 .
the premolar tooth of the lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 4 .
the premolar tooth of the lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 3 .
the molar tooth of the upper or lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 4 .
the premolar tooth of the upper or lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 3 .
the molar tooth of the upper jaw that is phylogenetically number 4 .
the premolar tooth of the upper jaw that is phylogenetically number 4 .
the premolar tooth of the upper jaw that is phylogenetically number 3 .
an anatomical line of a humerus that connects the trochlea to the ventral tubercle .
region of retina around the fovea that extends approximately for 6 mm .
this layer contains bundles of unmyelinated cone and rod photoreceptor axons terminating in the pedicles and spherules that synapse in the retinal outer plexiform layer  ( opl )  .
left part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
right part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
a zone of skin that is part of a scalp .
a forelimb that is on the right side of a pectoral complex .
a forelimb that is on the left side of a pectoral complex .
a hindlimb that is on the right side of a pelvic complex .
a hindlimb that is on the left side of a pelvic complex .
the region of the hepatic acinus closest to the portal triad .
the region of the hepatic acinus closest to the central vein of the liver lobule .
x vertebra_number n if and only if  ( i )  x is a vertebra ,  and  ( ii )  x is vertebra number n in a series of vertebras repeated along an anterior - posterior axis ,  with vertebra_number 1 being the anteriormost vertebra  ( also known as the atlas )  .
