elemental activities ,  such as catalysis or binding ,  describing the actions of a gene product at the molecular level .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
catalysis of movement along a polymeric molecule such as a microfilament or microtubule ,  coupled to the hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction: ntp  +  h2o = ndp  +  phosphate to drive the unwinding of a dna or rna helix .
mediates the transfer of a signal from the outside to the inside of a cell by means other than the introduction of the signal molecule itself into the cell .
combining with an extracellular or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell activity .
the action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of a complex or assembly within or outside a cell .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
a layer consisting mainly of proteins  ( especially collagen )  and glycosaminoglycans  ( mostly as proteoglycans )  that forms a sheet underlying or overlying cells such as endothelial and epithelial cells .
that part of a multicellular organism outside the cells proper ,  usually taken to be outside the plasma membranes ,  and occupied by fluid .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents ,  and compounds derived from amino acids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a cell .
the joining of two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
the specific activation or halting of processes within a cell so that its vital functions markedly cease ,  rather than simply deteriorating gradually over time ,  which culminates in cell death .
enables the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
catalysis of the integration of lambdoid phage dna during establishment ,  probably by forming a transient dna - protein link .
any molecular entity that serves as an electron acceptor and electron donor in an electron transport system .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the set of specific processes that generate the ability of an organism to cause disease in another .
the external part of the cell wall and / or plasma membrane .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
catalysis of the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
catalysis of energy - independent facilitated diffusion ,  mediated by passage of a solute through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel .
double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
inhibition of the reactions brought about by dioxygen  ( o2 )  or peroxides .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the geometric or structural changes within one molecule .
catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
the process whereby relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
modulates the activity of an enzyme .
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell .
plays a role in regulating transcription ;  may bind a promoter or enhancer dna sequence or interact with a dna - binding transcription factor .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of structures in the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any substance involved in the initiation ,  activation ,  perpetuation ,  repression or termination of polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell ,  a group of cells ,  or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process by which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
