the concentration of of a calcium ion when measured in endoplasmic reticulum .
the concentration of of a calcium ion when measured in golgi apparatus .
the diameter of a malpighian tubule .
the size of a malpighian tubule .
the macromolecular stability of a rna .
the length of a actin filament .
the size of a anatomical structure .
the amount of a angiotensin ii when measured in blood .
the quality of a hunger motivation behavior .
the size of a autophagosome .
the diameter of a axon .
the size of a blood vessel .
the volume when measured in multicellular organism .
the concentration of of a calcium ion .
the membrane potential of a cardiac muscle cell .
the diameter of a cell .
the ph of a cell .
the size of a cell projection .
the shape of a cell .
the size of a cell .
the volume of a cell .
the size of a cellular_component .
the acidity when measured in cell .
the frequency of a cilium movement .
the amount of a fibrinogen complex .
the direction of a cell growth .
the shape of a embryonic cell .
the size of a endosome .
the microvillus length of a follicle cell .
the rate of a heart contraction .
the amount of a hormone .
the size of a imaginal disc - derived wing .
the surface tension of a liquid configuration .
the pressure of a blood when measured in lung .
the acidity when measured in lysosomal lumen .
the permeability of a lysosomal membrane .
the macromolecular stability of a mrna .
the spatial pattern of a lipid when measured in membrane .
the electric potential of a membrane .
the membrane potential of a photoreceptor cell .
the size of a metanephros .
the length of a microvillus .
the macromolecular stability of a mrna when measured in mitochondrion .
the permeability of a mitochondrial membrane .
the membrane potential of a mitochondrial membrane .
the macromolecular stability of a rrna when measured in mitochondrion .
the size of a multivesicular body .
the speed of a muscle filament sliding .
the amount of a myofibril .
the size of a myofibril .
the synaptic plasticity of a neuron .
the amount of a neurotransmitter .
the size of a nucleus .
the amount of a nucleosome .
the amount of a water .
the size of a peroxisome .
the spatial pattern of a sterol when measured in plasma membrane .
the size of a post - lysosomal vacuole .
the membrane potential of a postsynaptic membrane .
the concentration of of a potassium ( 1 +  )  .
the size of a pronephros .
the macromolecular stability of a protein .
the macromolecular stability of a rrna .
the amount of a spindle .
the quality of a synapse .
the pressure of a blood when measured in systemic artery .
the size of a dorsal plus ventral thalamus .
the force of a heart contraction .
the speed of a skeletal muscle contraction .
the diameter of a respiratory tube .
the length of a respiratory tube .
the size of a respiratory tube .
the functionality of a translation .
the diameter of a tube .
the size of a tube .
the volume of a urine .
the permeability of a vessel .
the amount of a nutrient .
the diameter of a blood vessel .
the structure of a kidney .
the size of a lower urinary tract .
the displaced of a testis .
the phenotypic sex of a multicellular organism .
the displaced of a urethral meatus .
the amount of a external genitalia .
the concavity of a scrotum .
the size of a reproductive system .
the closure of a urethra .
the amount of a renal collecting system .
the displaced of a kidney .
the rate of a micturition .
the amount of a kidney .
the composition of a kidney .
the functionality of a nephron tubule .
the size of a renal pelvis .
the structure of a gonad .
the size of a gonad .
the concavity of a uterus .
the position of a uterus .
the amount of a menstruation .
the structure of a female gonad .
the closure of a vagina .
the amount of a uterus .
the size of a mouth .
the size of a tongue .
the displaced of a tongue .
the closure of a secondary palate .
the closure of a bony part of hard palate .
the position of a lower lip .
the closure of a soft palate .
the size of a alveolar ridge .
the length of a upper lip .
the size of a secondary palate .
the concavity of a palatine uvula .
the closure of a mouth .
the length of a frenulum of tongue .
the closure of a upper lip .
the 2 - d shape of a mouth .
the size of a gingiva .
the position of a upper lip .
the size of a alveolar process of maxilla .
the wetness of a mouth .
the height of a secondary palate .
the size of a upper lip .
the texture of a tongue .
the spatial pattern of a lower lip .
the size of a anterior fontanel .
the size of a fontanelle .
the position of a tetrapod parietal bone .
the 2 - d shape of a head .
the mass density of a vault of skull .
the position of a occipital bone .
the onset quality of a fontanelle .
the size of a jugal bone .
the size of a face .
the length of a face .
the displaced of a mandible .
the texture of a face .
the composition of a face .
the length of a epicanthal fold .
the size of a philtrum .
the convex 3 - d shape of a face .
the position of a mandible .
the sharpness of a chin .
the 2 - d shape of a face .
the curvature of a philtrum .
the symmetry of a face .
the size of a maxilla .
the length of a chin .
the size of a forehead .
the shape of a forehead .
the size of a mandible .
the height of a forehead .
the position of a ear .
the rotated of a external ear .
the amount of a sensory perception of sound .
the position of a external ear .
the size of a helix .
the position of a antihelix .
the size of a external acoustic meatus .
the amount of a vibrational conductance of sound to the inner ear .
the closure of a external acoustic meatus .
the size of a nose .
the shape of a nose .
the length of a nasal septum .
the position of a nasal bridge .
the size of a nasal cartilage .
the size of a nasal bridge .
the curvature of a nose tip .
the size of a nasal bone .
the position of a nose .
the 2 - d shape of a nose tip .
the structure of a internal naris .
the closure of a internal naris .
the curvature of a external naris .
the size of a nose tip .
the concavity of a nose tip .
the curvature of a nose .
the amount of a sensory perception of smell .
the spatial pattern of a external naris .
the strength of a muscle of neck .
the length of a neck .
the size of a neck .
the size of a cornea .
the alignment of a anatomical line between pupils .
the position of a eyeball of camera - type eye .
the shape of a palpebral fissure .
the shape of a eyelid .
the amount of a iris .
the length of a eyelash .
the amount of a eyeball of camera - type eye .
the spatial pattern of a eyebrow .
the structure of a cornea .
the amount of a eyelash .
the closure of a lacrimal drainage system .
the size of a eyeball of camera - type eye .
the size of a eyebrow .
the size of a palpebral fissure .
the closure of a eyeball of camera - type eye .
the size of a sclera .
the movement behavioral quality of a extra - ocular muscle .
the texture of a periorbital skin .
the size of a cranial nerve ii .
the photosensitivity of a camera - type eye .
the amount of a visual perception .
the spatial pattern of a eyelash .
the spatial pattern of a eyelid .
the functionality of a eyelid .
the morphology of a eyeball of camera - type eye .
the amount of a calcareous tooth .
the size of a upper central secondary incisor tooth .
the position of a dentition .
the color of a enamel .
the size of a dentition .
the amount of a upper lateral incisor tooth .
the convex 3 - d shape of a dentition .
the structure of a dentine .
the structure of a enamel .
the damage of a sensory nerve .
the degeneration of a axon .
the concavity of a sternum .
the position of a sternum .
the length of a rib .
the size of a anterior chest .
the fertility of a multicellular organism .
the shape of a uterus .
the onset quality of a development of secondary sexual characteristics .
the rate of a growth hormone secretion .
the behavioural activity of a renin - angiotensin system .
the size of a rib .
the position of a rib .
the length of a clavicle bone .
the concavity of a rib .
the position of a costochondral joint .
the curvature of a thoracic rib cage .
the curvature of a rib .
the curvature of a glenoid fossa .
the size of a costochondral joint .
the amount of a rib .
the size of a compact bone of long bone .
the length of a diaphysis .
the size of a ilium .
the shape of a long bone .
the amount of a palmar skin crease .
the water composition of a skin of body .
the color of a skin of body .
the size of a skin epidermis .
the size of a skin of body .
the structure of a ectoderm .
the spatial pattern of a skin of body .
the elasticity of a skin of body .
the hardness of a skin of body .
the color saturation of a skin of body .
the structure of a skin of body .
the photosensitivity of a skin of body .
the altered number of of a subcutaneous adipose tissue .
the composition of a lymphatic part of lymphoid system .
the position of a superficial vein .
the fragility of a skin of body .
the displaced of a lens of camera - type eye .
the structure of a cranial nerve ii .
the size of a ocular fundus .
the size of a macula lutea .
the damage of a cranial nerve ii .
the structure of a orbit of skull .
the shape of a vagina .
the size of a palmar part of manus .
the size of a manus .
the sharpness of a manual digit .
the length of a umbilical cord .
the position of a distal segment of manual digit .
the shape of a digit .
the 2 - d shape of a manual digit 1 .
the structure of a carpal region .
the size of a metacarpal bone .
the shape of a manual digit .
the size of a thenar eminence .
the occurrence of a cognition .
the onset quality of a developmental process .
the rate of a reflex .
the amount of a corpus callosum .
the amount of a reflex .
the morphology of a posterior cranial fossa .
the amount of a septum pellucidum .
the onset quality of a skeletal joint .
the length of a tendon .
the displaced of a skeletal joint .
the mobility of a skeletal joint .
the structure of a hip .
the composition of a skeletal joint .
the size of a musculature of shoulder .
the onset quality of a anterior fontanel .
the size of a carpal bone .
the size of a manual digit .
the rate of a growth .
the onset quality of a growth .
the rate of a embryo development .
the position of a abdomen .
the closure of a abdominal wall .
the shape of a rectus abdominis muscle .
the position of a umbilicus .
the displaced of a anus .
the circumference of a anterior chest .
the symmetry of a chest .
the length of a diastema between upper central incisors .
the size of a lower jaw incisor .
the structure of a larynx .
the strength of a laryngeal vocal fold .
the movement behavioral quality of a laryngeal vocal fold .
the onset quality of a parturition .
the closure of a interventricular septum .
the closure of a interatrial septum .
the position of a mitral valve .
the amount of a heart contraction .
the structure of a pulmonary valve .
the closure of a ductus arteriosus .
the sharpness of a aortic valve .
the structure of a aortic valve .
the sufficiency of a mitral valve .
the structure of a interatrial septum .
the sufficiency of a aortic valve .
the structure of a aorta .
the position of a tricuspid valve .
the composition of a coronary artery .
the structure of a mitral valve .
the sufficiency of a exocrine pancreas .
the amount of a spleen .
the shape of a cardiac ventricle .
the curvature of a longitudinal arch of pes .
the length of a skeleton of pes .
the size of a metatarsal bone .
the structure of a tarsal region .
the composition of a embryo .
the size of a nail .
the size of a nail of pedal digit .
the amount of a nail of pedal digit .
the size of a nail of manual digit .
the fragility of a nail .
the amount of a nail of manual digit .
the deviation of a pedal digit 1 .
the length of a pedal digit .
the size of a pedal digit .
the spatial pattern of a talus .
the length of a pedal digit 1 .
the morphology of a calcaneus .
the concavity of a distal phalanx of pes .
the length of a distal phalanx of pes .
the deviation of a pedal digit .
the deviation of a pedal digit 5 .
the shape of a pes .
the length of a pedal digit 2 .
the amount of a reticulocyte .
the mass of a erythroid lineage cell .
the structure of a renal artery .
the structure of a lymphocyte .
the rate of a ketone body biosynthetic process .
the occurrence of a fever generation .
the displaced of a hemopoiesis .
the length of a columella nasi .
the shape of a face .
the position of a forehead .
the quality of a liquid of a feces .
the frequency of a defecation .
the structure of a pyloric antrum .
the closure of a anus .
the structure of a anal canal .
the closure of a esophagus .
the position of a rectum .
the structure of a esophagus .
the size of a cortex of kidney .
the position of a glabella region of bone .
the size of a telencephalon .
the amount of a respiratory gaseous exchange .
the size of a brain ventricle .
the size of a cerebral cortex .
the composition of a basal ganglion .
the structure of a nail .
the composition of a telencephalon .
the onset quality of a central nervous system myelination .
the structure of a cerebellar vermis .
the composition of a pleural cavity .
the spatial pattern of a hair of head .
the spatial pattern of a strand of axillary hair .
the amount of a strand of axillary hair .
the amount of a eyebrow .
the spatial pattern of a strand of pubic hair .
the color of a eyebrow .
the color of a eyelash .
the closure of a duodenum .
the amount of a startle response .
the displaced of a neural cell .
the color brightness of a strand of hair .
the color of a strand of hair .
the degeneration of a lateral corticospinal tract .
the amount of a cerebellar vermis .
the size of a caudate nucleus .
the structure of a cerebellum .
the degeneration of a cerebral hemisphere white matter .
the size of a brainstem .
the amount of a musculoskeletal movement .
the rate of a musculoskeletal movement .
the degeneration of a motor neuron .
the size of a superior cerebellar peduncle of pons .
the structure of a midbrain cerebral aqueduct .
the composition of a dentate nucleus .
the amount of a kinesis .
the functionality of a corticospinal tract .
the degeneration of a ammon's horn .
the structure of a cerebral cortex .
the amount of a strand of hair of face .
the structure of a strand of hair .
the concavity of a eyebrow .
the amount of a strand of pubic hair .
the size of a nipple .
the amount of a nipple .
the position of a nipple .
the rotated of a alimentary part of gastrointestinal system .
the strength of a stomach muscularis externa .
the contractility of a alimentary part of gastrointestinal system .
the closure of a alimentary part of gastrointestinal system .
the size of a abdominal aorta artery .
the structure of a skeleton .
the structure of a epiphysis .
the fragility of a bone element .
the size of a foramen magnum .
the symmetry of a skull .
the size of a vault of skull .
the amount of a paranasal sinus .
the rate of a immune response .
the rate of a lymphocyte apoptotic process .
the size of a frontal sinus .
the spatial pattern of a trabecular bone tissue .
the size of a compact bone tissue .
the morphology of a cartilage element .
the structure of a trachea .
the composition of a trachea .
the amount of a bone resorption .
the shape of a metaphysis .
the size of a trochanter .
the displaced of a hip .
the length of a coccyx .
the spatial pattern of a bone mineralization .
the curvature of a metaphysis of femur .
the spatial pattern of a urinary bladder .
the amount of a lymph node germinal center .
the size of a iliac blade .
the curvature of a iliac blade .
the rate of a aldehyde oxidase activity .
the height of a intervertebral disk .
the amount of a vertebra .
the curvature of a hindlimb zeugopod .
the size of a appendage girdle complex .
the size of a radius bone .
the amount of a fibula .
the displaced of a patella .
the curvature of a metaphysis .
the size of a metaphysis .
the size of a ulna .
the mass density of a metaphysis .
the length of a long bone .
the size of a tarsal region .
the size of a skeletal joint .
the size of a fibula .
the deviation of a carpal region .
the size of a patella .
the curvature of a epiphysis .
the displaced of a head of radius .
the size of a proximal epiphysis of femur .
the size of a pubis .
the size of a ischium .
the 2 - d shape of a ilium .
the position of a acetabular part of hip bone .
the size of a acetabular fossa .
the size of a pubic symphysis .
the spatial pattern of a nipple .
the length of a nose .
the concavity of a ala of nose .
the length of a nasal bone .
the damage of a musculature .
the mass of a muscle organ .
the size of a skeletal musculature .
the composition of a artery .
the rate of a pyruvate carboxylase activity .
the duration of a g2 phase .
the position of a raphe of scrotum .
the size of a external genitalia .
the amount of a vagina .
the displaced of a reproductive system .
the rate of a glyoxalase iii activity .
the size of a abdomen .
the size of a acetabular part of hip bone .
the size of a pelvic girdle bone / zone .
the structure of a iliac blade .
the 2 - d shape of a pelvic girdle bone / zone .
the convex 3 - d shape of a bony vertebral centrum .
the mass density of a vertebral endplate .
the convex 3 - d shape of a trunk vertebra .
the size of a odontoid process of cervical vertebra 2 .
the mobility of a cervical vertebra .
the strength of a axial muscle .
the structure of a bone element .
the rate of a cholesterol esterification .
the rate of a propionyl - coa carboxylase activity .
the curvature of a proximal epiphysis of femur .
the size of a greater sciatic notch .
the strength of a first dorsal interosseous of manus .
the size of a thenar muscle .
the structure of a nerve .
the mass density of a proximal metaphysis of femur .
the structure of a central canal of spinal cord .
the size of a first dorsal interosseous of manus .
the strength of a thenar muscle .
the position of a fused sacrum .
the onset quality of a chromosome condensation .
the amount of a peripheral nervous system myelin formation .
the strength of a musculature of upper limb .
the length of a trunk .
the rate of a xanthine dehydrogenase activity .
the strength of a muscle of pectoral girdle .
the flexibility of a muscle organ .
the variability of size of a cell of skeletal muscle .
the rate of a glucose - 6 - phosphate isomerase activity .
the amount of a foam cell .
the rate of a dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase  ( nadp +  )  activity .
the rate of a alpha - 1 , 6 - mannosylglycoprotein 2 - beta - n - acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity .
the size of a musculature of pectoral girdle .
the strength of a quadriceps femoris .
the size of a hindlimb stylopod muscle .
the strength of a muscle of pelvic girdle .
the length of a mandibular ramus .
the length of a middle phalanx of pes .
the mass density of a iliac crest .
the size of a musculature of limb .
the onset quality of a death .
the displaced of a shoulder .
the concavity of a humerus .
the wholeness of a humerus .
the shape of a humerus .
the sharpness of a humerus .
the 2 - d shape of a humerus .
the position of a deltopectoral crest .
the curvature of a epiphysis of humerus .
the mass density of a epiphysis of humerus .
the size of a epiphysis of humerus .
the 2 - d shape of a epiphysis of humerus .
the spatial pattern of a epiphysis of humerus .
the size of a metaphysis of humerus .
the curvature of a metaphysis of humerus .
the sharpness of a metaphysis of humerus .
the shape of a metaphysis of humerus .
the 2 - d shape of a metaphysis of humerus .
the shape of a humerus diaphysis .
the size of a humerus diaphysis .
the size of a joint space of elbow .
the amount of a forelimb zeugopod bone .
the curvature of a forelimb zeugopod bone .
the morphology of a forelimb zeugopod bone .
the wholeness of a forelimb zeugopod bone .
the size of a radio - ulnar joint .
the amount of a radius bone .
the structure of a radius bone .
the wholeness of a radius bone .
the amount of a ulna .
the displaced of a ulna .
the wholeness of a ulna .
the concavity of a ulna .
the sharpness of a ulna .
the shape of a ulna .
the displaced of a carpal region .
the size of a head of radius .
the structure of a neck of radius .
the convex 3 - d shape of a epiphysis of radius .
the curvature of a epiphysis of radius .
the mass density of a epiphysis of radius .
the size of a epiphysis of radius .
the 2 - d shape of a epiphysis of radius .
the shape of a epiphysis of radius .
the size of a epiphyseal plate of radius .
the curvature of a metaphysis of radius .
the mass density of a metaphysis of radius .
the shape of a metaphysis of radius .
the size of a metaphysis of radius .
the curvature of a olecranon .
the mass density of a olecranon .
the length of a styloid process of ulna .
the mass density of a ulnar metaphysis .
the sharpness of a ulnar metaphysis .
the shape of a ulnar metaphysis .
the size of a ulnar metaphysis .
the amount of a skeleton of manus .
the curvature of a manual digit .
the deviation of a manual digit .
the length of a distal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the deviation of a manual digit 5 .
the curvature of a manual digit 5 phalanx .
the length of a middle phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the length of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the displaced of a proximal interphalangeal joint of little finger .
the amount of a carpal bone .
the mass density of a carpal bone .
the displaced of a carpal bone .
the amount of a radiale .
the size of a radiale .
the amount of a intermedium .
the displaced of a intermedium .
the size of a distal carpal bone 1 .
the size of a distal carpal bone 2 .
the size of a distal carpal bone 4 .
the size of a distal carpal bone 3 .
the position of a abdominal wall .
the strength of a respiratory muscle .
the composition of a aortic valve .
the composition of a mitral valve .
the closure of a pylorus .
the functionality of a sensory perception of smell .
the sensitivity of a process of a sensory perception of smell .
the structure of a pulmonary artery .
the curvature of a forehead .
the size of a internal surface of frontal bone .
the convex 3 - d shape of a erythrocyte .
the size of a internal acoustic meatus .
the symmetry of a facial skeleton .
the size of a posterior fontanelle .
the size of a facial skeleton .
the closure of a posterior nasal aperture .
the size of a islet of langerhans .
the length of a eyebrow .
the mass density of a vertebral column .
the 2 - d shape of a bony vertebral centrum .
the structure of a cervical vertebral arch joint .
the spatial pattern of a bony vertebral centrum .
the concavity of a bony vertebral centrum .
the structure of a lumbar vertebra 2 .
the size of a fused sacrum .
the curvature of a thoracic vertebra .
the displaced of a odontoid process of cervical vertebra 2 .
the structure of a lumbar division of spinal cord central canal .
the closure of a bony part of vertebral arch of first sacral vertebra .
the shape of a arch of centrum of vertebra .
the size of a pedicle of vertebra .
the strength of a frontalis muscle belly .
the size of a tarsal bone .
the length of a metatarsal bone of digit 3 .
the mass density of a tarsal bone .
the length of a metatarsal bone of digit 4 .
the size of a calcaneal tendon .
the length of a metatarsal bone of digit 5 .
the rotated of a kidney .
the rotated of a colon .
the size of a small intestine .
the rotated of a small intestine .
the strength of a intercostal muscle .
the rate of a galactose metabolic process .
the closure of a pulmonary artery .
the size of a descending thoracic aorta .
the amount of a pulmonary artery .
the composition of a thoracic aorta .
the composition of a aorta .
the size of a pulmonary artery .
the structure of a abdominal aorta .
the displaced of a knee joint .
the position of a styloid process of ulna .
the curvature of a proximal epiphysis of radius .
the structure of a distal epiphysis of radius .
the size of a diaphysis .
the length of a phalanx of pes .
the mass density of a proximal epiphysis of femur .
the size of a proximal epiphysis of fibula .
the amount of a styloid process of ulna .
the amount of a proximal epiphysis of radius .
the degeneration of a cochlea .
the composition of a cartilage of external ear .
the size of a nasal septum .
the size of a ascending aorta .
the size of a abdominal aorta .
the size of a arch of aorta .
the amount of a pulmonary valve .
the structure of a coronary artery .
the sufficiency of a tricuspid valve .
the sharpness of a pulmonary valve .
the size of a synovial joint .
the flexibility of a interphalangeal joint .
the amount of a abdomen musculature .
the structure of a intrahepatic bile duct .
the rotated of a midgut .
the composition of a pancreas .
the closure of a intestine .
the composition of a intestine .
the closure of a biliary tree .
the structure of a pancreas .
the closure of a jejunum .
the degeneration of a liver .
the closure of a extrahepatic bile duct .
the size of a intestine .
the size of a muscle of abdomen .
the closure of a intrahepatic bile duct .
the amount of a pectoralis minor .
the size of a chest .
the amount of a cartilage of nasal septum .
the position of a nose tip .
the curvature of a nasal bridge .
the amount of a nasal bridge .
the size of a internal carotid artery .
the sufficiency of a vein .
the composition of a arch of aorta .
the size of a pulmonary vein .
the amount of a lung vasculature .
the position of a nasal septum .
the size of a epiglottis .
the functionality of a b cell differentiation .
the amount of a b cell .
the functionality of a b cell activation .
the cellular motility of a neutrophil .
the amount of a t cell .
the amount of a cd4 - positive helper t cell .
the amount of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cell .
the closure of a coronal suture .
the size of a posterior cranial fossa .
the amount of a ethmoid sinus .
the composition of a falx cerebri .
the size of a tetrapod frontal bone .
the curvature of a occipital bone .
the closure of a sagittal suture .
the position of a frontal suture .
the onset quality of a posterior fontanelle .
the amount of a megakaryocyte .
the amount of a renal glomerulus .
the mobility of a interphalangeal joint .
the size of a long bone .
the amount of a forelimb zeugopod .
the length of a pedal digit 3 .
the composition of a intervertebral disk .
the morphology of a proximal head of humerus .
the deviation of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the size of a forelimb zeugopod bone .
the curvature of a lumbar vertebra .
the size of a mandible condylar process .
the amount of a distal phalanx of manus .
the length of a middle phalanx of manus .
the deviation of a pedal digit 2 .
the occurrence of a bone maturation .
the 2 - d shape of a middle phalanx of manus .
the concavity of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
the closure of a bony part of cervical vertebral arch .
the size of a internal surface of cranial base .
the deviation of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
the amount of a metacarpal bone .
the growth quality of occurrent of a cilium .
the closure of a larynx .
the rate of a gluconeogenesis .
the closure of a ureter .
the size of a phalanx .
the 2 - d shape of a epiphysis of phalanx of manus .
the length of a metacarpal bone of digit 2 .
the branchiness of a metacarpal bone .
the size of a distal epiphysis of metacarpal bone .
the convex 3 - d shape of a epiphysis of metacarpal bone .
the sharpness of a metacarpal bone .
the length of a proximal phalanx of manus .
the size of a epiphysis of metacarpal bone .
the length of a phalanx of manus .
the deviation of a manual digit 1 .
the position of a palmar skin crease .
the size of a metacarpophalangeal joint .
the convex 3 - d shape of a metacarpal bone .
the position of a proximal interphalangeal joint .
the position of a carpal bone .
the size of a palmar skin crease .
the size of a proximal interphalangeal joint .
the sharpness of a phalanx of manus .
the mobility of a distal interphalangeal joint .
the shape of a metacarpal bone .
the position of a interphalangeal joint .
the size of a interphalangeal joint .
the structure of a proximal interphalangeal joint .
the amount of a type b pancreatic cell .
the rate of a enamel mineralization .
the amount of a central incisor tooth .
the amount of a upper central incisor tooth .
the size of a enamel .
the size of a primary dentition .
the persistence of a primary dentition .
the length of a tooth root .
the morphology of a lower secondary premolar tooth .
the convex 3 - d shape of a lower jaw incisor .
the morphology of a primary molar tooth .
the 2 - d shape of a incisor tooth .
the size of a premolar tooth .
the amount of a lower central incisor tooth .
the mass density of a epiphysis of femur .
the spatial pattern of a patella .
the composition of a distal epiphysis of ulna .
the length of a pelvic complex .
the size of a distal epiphysis of radius .
the size of a distal metaphysis of femur .
the mass density of a long bone .
the curvature of a distal epiphysis of femur .
the length of a zeugopod .
the mass density of a distal epiphysis of femur .
the size of a metaphysis of tibia .
the size of a metaphysis of femur .
the amount of a tibia .
the size of a neck of femur .
the size of a distal epiphysis of femur .
the amount of a patella .
the structure of a patella .
the displaced of a head of femur .
the mass density of a proximal epiphysis of tibia .
the amount of a incisor tooth .
the curvature of a long bone .
the curvature of a forelimb stylopod .
the size of a cartilage of bronchus .
the composition of a liver .
the size of a biliary tree .
the amount of a intrahepatic bile duct .
the amount of a glenoid fossa .
the movement behavioral quality of a diaphragm .
the mass density of a costochondral joint .
the size of a glenoid fossa .
the position of a floating rib .
the structure of a chest .
the composition of a costal cartilage .
the size of a rib 1 .
the rotated of a shoulder .
the size of a rib 12 .
the amount of a atrioventricular node .
the length of a chorda tendinea of right ventricle .
the size of a paranasal sinus .
the structure of a basal ganglion .
the morphology of a spinal cord motor neuron .
the movement behavioral quality of a cranial nerve .
the size of a basal part of pons .
the size of a olfactory lobe .
the composition of a choroid plexus .
the structure of a corpus callosum .
the degeneration of a central nervous system .
the size of a corticospinal tract .
the size of a olfactory tract .
the size of a basal ganglion .
the degeneration of a globus pallidus .
the size of a interosseous muscle of manus .
the movement behavioral quality of a facial muscle .
the size of a musculature of lower limb .
the amount of a midbrain .
the functionality of a lateral corticospinal tract .
the amount of a central nervous system myelin maintenance .
the size of a frontal cortex .
the strength of a pelvic complex muscle .
the structure of a cerebral hemisphere white matter .
the composition of a cerebellum .
the size of a motor neuron .
the texture of a skin of body .
the size of a skin of sole of pes .
the amount of a sweat gland .
the size of a pilosebaceous unit .
the size of a stratum corneum of epidermis .
the texture of a skin of palm of manus .
the composition of a superficial fascia .
the amount of a lower eyelash .
the spatial pattern of a lower eyelid .
the shape of a eyelash .
the structure of a nasolacrimal duct .
the functionality of a pupil .
the size of a lower eyelid .
the degeneration of a cornea .
the strength of a extra - ocular muscle .
the size of a lacrimal gland .
the size of a fovea centralis .
the opacity of a substantia propria of cornea .
the size of a retina .
the size of a ciliary body .
the spatial pattern of a lower eyelash .
the opacity of a posterior pole of lens .
the closure of a lacrimal punctum .
the length of a upper eyelash .
the composition of a retina .
the amount of a extra - ocular muscle .
the size of a lacrimal punctum .
the size of a lacrimal drainage system .
the position of a epicanthal fold .
the amount of a pigmented layer of retina .
the size of a iris stroma .
the morphology of a lacrimal drainage system .
the spatial pattern of a strand of hair .
the length of a pedal digit 4 .
the deviation of a pedal digit 3 .
the length of a neck of talus .
the morphology of a tarsal bone .
the displaced of a pedal digit .
the amount of a helper t cell .
the size of a adrenal cortex .
the onset quality of a development of secondary male sexual characteristics .
the structure of a thyroid gland .
the amount of a thyroid gland .
the amount of a development of secondary sexual characteristics .
the structure of a adrenal gland .
the size of a adrenal medulla .
the size of a cerebellar cortex .
the morphology of a mitochondrion .
the size of a nail of manual digit 5 .
the size of a vertebra .
the degeneration of a intervertebral disk .
the composition of a vertebra .
the 2 - d shape of a vertebra .
the structure of a vertebral column .
the size of a lumbar vertebra 5 .
the shape of a vertebra .
the size of a cervical vertebra .
the amount of a coccyx .
the concavity of a thoracic vertebra .
the position of a nucleus pulposus .
the structure of a cervical division of cord spinal central canal .
the size of a caudal vertebra .
the structure of a fused sacrum .
the growth quality of occurrent of a cervical vertebra .
the size of a neural spine .
the size of a central part of body of bony vertebral centrum .
the structure of a cervical vertebra .
the length of a bony vertebral centrum .
the size of a sacral vertebra .
the size of a bony vertebral centrum .
the surface feature shape of a helix .
the morphology of a external ear .
the position of a antitragus .
the size of a auricular cartilage .
the amount of a development of secondary female sexual characteristics .
the structure of a urethra .
the rate of a spermatogenesis .
the amount of a internal genitalia .
the composition of a gonad .
the growth quality of occurrent of a testis .
the size of a vagina .
the size of a larynx .
the concavity of a larynx .
the amount of a epiglottis .
the composition of a larynx .
the curvature of a laryngeal vocal fold .
the size of a proximal metaphysis of femur .
the convex 3 - d shape of a proximal epiphysis of femur .
the rotated of a hip .
the size of a lesser trochanter .
the size of a head of femur .
the shape of a head of femur .
the structure of a acetabular part of hip bone .
the height of a iliac blade .
the curvature of a head of femur .
the size of a inferior pubic ramus .
the size of a body of ilium .
the size of a pubic ramus .
the size of a pelvic region of trunk .
the size of a pelvic complex muscle .
the rate of a mitochondrial respiratory chain .
the size of a muscle of neck .
the amount of a diaphragm .
the size of a muscle of pelvic girdle .
the size of a pectoralis major .
the size of a muscle organ .
the size of a biceps brachii .
the size of a serratus ventralis .
the amount of a gluteal muscle .
the altered number of of a connective tissue .
the size of a latissimus dorsi muscle .
the size of a peroneus .
the size of a quadriceps femoris .
the shape of a alveolar process of maxilla .
the closure of a median palatine suture .
the size of a alveolar ridge of mandible .
the strength of a diaphragm .
the altered number of of a adipose tissue .
the size of a musculature of upper limb .
the size of a musculature of manus .
the convex 3 - d shape of a middle phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the size of a middle phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the 2 - d shape of a epiphysis of metacarpal bone .
the curvature of a middle phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the 2 - d shape of a middle phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the wholeness of a epiphysis of metacarpal bone .
the mass density of a epiphysis of metacarpal bone .
the spatial pattern of a epiphysis of metacarpal bone .
the amount of a epiphysis of metacarpal bone .
the length of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the size of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the 2 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the length of a manual digit 5 .
the size of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the 2 - d shape of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the deviation of a manual digit 4 .
the length of a manual digit 4 .
the curvature of a manual digit 4 phalanx .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the curvature of a middle phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the length of a distal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the size of a distal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the size of a middle phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the length of a middle phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a middle phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the length of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a distal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the 2 - d shape of a distal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the 2 - d shape of a middle phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the size of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the 2 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the deviation of a manual digit 3 .
the size of a manual digit 5 phalanx .
the convex 3 - d shape of a manual digit 5 phalanx .
the 2 - d shape of a manual digit 5 phalanx .
the amount of a manual digit .
the length of a manual digit .
the size of a manual digit 4 phalanx .
the convex 3 - d shape of a manual digit 4 phalanx .
the 2 - d shape of a manual digit 4 phalanx .
the size of a distal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a distal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the 2 - d shape of a distal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the size of a middle phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a middle phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the curvature of a middle phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the 2 - d shape of a middle phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the length of a middle phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the size of a manual digit 3 phalanx .
the convex 3 - d shape of a manual digit 3 phalanx .
the curvature of a manual digit 3 phalanx .
the 2 - d shape of a manual digit 3 phalanx .
the size of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the 2 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the length of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the length of a manual digit 3 .
the deviation of a manual digit 2 .
the deviation of a manus .
the length of a manual digit 2 .
the 2 - d shape of a manual digit 2 phalanx .
the size of a manual digit 2 phalanx .
the convex 3 - d shape of a manual digit 2 phalanx .
the curvature of a manual digit 2 phalanx .
the size of a chordate pharynx .
the size of a distal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a distal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the 2 - d shape of a distal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the length of a distal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the size of a middle phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a middle phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the curvature of a middle phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the 2 - d shape of a middle phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the length of a middle phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the size of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the 2 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the length of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the amount of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
the amount of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
the amount of a metacarpal bone of digit 1 .
the concavity of a metacarpal bone of digit 1 .
the displaced of a manual digit 1 .
the size of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
the length of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
the size of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a manual digit 1 phalanx .
the curvature of a manual digit 1 phalanx .
the length of a manual digit 1 phalanx .
the amount of a manual digit 1 .
the size of a antihelix .
the flexibility of a shoulder .
the size of a phalanx of manus .
the convex 3 - d shape of a phalanx of manus .
the curvature of a phalanx of manus .
the 2 - d shape of a phalanx of manus .
the length of a manual digit 1 .
the concavity of a fused sacrum .
the length of a forelimb zeugopod bone .
the size of a distal phalanx of manus .
the convex 3 - d shape of a distal phalanx of manus .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of manus .
the size of a middle phalanx of manus .
the convex 3 - d shape of a middle phalanx of manus .
the curvature of a middle phalanx of manus .
the size of a proximal phalanx of manus .
the convex 3 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of manus .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of manus .
the 2 - d shape of a distal phalanx of manus .
the length of a distal phalanx of manus .
the sharpness of a distal phalanx of manus .
the size of a supra - orbital ridge .
the amount of a external ear .
the size of a crus of ear .
the position of a crus of ear .
the concavity of a helix .
the position of a helix .
the symmetry of a cornea .
the displaced of a pupil .
the persistence of a hyaloid artery .
the symmetry of a external naris .
the size of a external naris .
the amount of a external naris .
the symmetry of a mandible .
the symmetry of a mouth .
the concavity of a manual digit 1 phalanx .
the shape of a epiphysis of first metacarpal bone .
the convex 3 - d shape of a epiphysis of first metacarpal bone .
the size of a epiphysis of first metacarpal bone .
the wholeness of a epiphysis of first metacarpal bone .
the mass density of a epiphysis of first metacarpal bone .
the spatial pattern of a epiphysis of first metacarpal bone .
the 2 - d shape of a epiphysis of first metacarpal bone .
the size of a metacarpal bone of digit 1 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a metacarpal bone of digit 1 .
the curvature of a metacarpal bone of digit 1 .
the length of a metacarpal bone of digit 1 .
the length of a metacarpal bone of digit 3 .
the length of a metacarpal bone of digit 4 .
the length of a metacarpal bone of digit 5 .
the length of a metacarpal bone .
the size of a pedal digit 1 .
the size of a pedal digit 1 phalanx .
the convex 3 - d shape of a pedal digit 1 phalanx .
the curvature of a pedal digit 1 phalanx .
the 2 - d shape of a pedal digit 1 phalanx .
the size of a metatarsal bone of digit 1 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a metatarsal bone of digit 1 .
the curvature of a metatarsal bone of digit 1 .
the 2 - d shape of a metatarsal bone of digit 1 .
the size of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
the 2 - d shape of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
the size of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
the 2 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
the amount of a metatarsal bone of digit 1 .
the length of a metatarsal bone of digit 1 .
the length of a pedal digit 1 phalanx .
the shape of a epiphysis of first metatarsal bone .
the convex 3 - d shape of a epiphysis of first metatarsal bone .
the size of a epiphysis of first metatarsal bone .
the wholeness of a epiphysis of first metatarsal bone .
the mass density of a epiphysis of first metatarsal bone .
the spatial pattern of a epiphysis of first metatarsal bone .
the 2 - d shape of a epiphysis of first metatarsal bone .
the size of a phalanx of pes .
the convex 3 - d shape of a phalanx of pes .
the curvature of a phalanx of pes .
the 2 - d shape of a phalanx of pes .
the size of a distal phalanx of pes .
the convex 3 - d shape of a distal phalanx of pes .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of pes .
the 2 - d shape of a distal phalanx of pes .
the size of a middle phalanx of pes .
the convex 3 - d shape of a middle phalanx of pes .
the curvature of a middle phalanx of pes .
the 2 - d shape of a middle phalanx of pes .
the size of a proximal phalanx of pes .
the convex 3 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of pes .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of pes .
the 2 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of pes .
the shape of a epiphysis of phalanx of manus .
the convex 3 - d shape of a epiphysis of phalanx of manus .
the size of a epiphysis of phalanx of manus .
the wholeness of a epiphysis of phalanx of manus .
the mass density of a epiphysis of phalanx of manus .
the spatial pattern of a epiphysis of phalanx of manus .
the closure of a lower lip .
the size of a lower lip .
the concavity of a alveolar ridge .
the size of a hard palate .
the amount of a palatine uvula .
the concavity of a tongue .
the closure of a arch of centrum of vertebra .
the amount of a fused sacrum .
the length of a chest .
the amount of a sternum .
the branchiness of a sternum .
the symmetry of a breast .
the onset quality of a thelarche .
the deviation of a pedal digit 4 .
the size of a pedal digit 2 phalanx .
the convex 3 - d shape of a pedal digit 2 phalanx .
the curvature of a pedal digit 2 phalanx .
the 2 - d shape of a pedal digit 2 phalanx .
the size of a pedal digit 3 phalanx .
the convex 3 - d shape of a pedal digit 3 phalanx .
the curvature of a pedal digit 3 phalanx .
the 2 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
the size of a pedal digit 4 phalanx .
the convex 3 - d shape of a pedal digit 4 phalanx .
the curvature of a pedal digit 4 phalanx .
the 2 - d shape of a pedal digit 4 phalanx .
the size of a pedal digit 5 phalanx .
the convex 3 - d shape of a pedal digit 5 phalanx .
the curvature of a pedal digit 5 phalanx .
the 2 - d shape of a pedal digit 5 phalanx .
the size of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the 2 - d shape of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the size of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the curvature of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the 2 - d shape of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the size of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the convex 3 - d shape of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the 2 - d shape of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the amount of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the concavity of a femur .
the sufficiency of a pulmonary valve .
the closure of a colon .
the structure of a lumen of esophagus .
the displaced of a spleen .
the symmetry of a pelvic girdle bone / zone .
the onset quality of a development of secondary female sexual characteristics .
the amount of a testis .
the size of a pectoral complex .
the size of a hypothenar eminence .
the size of a leg .
the symmetry of a pes .
the composition of a adrenal gland .
the composition of a pituitary gland .
the size of a cranial suture .
the spatial pattern of a clivus of occipital bone .
the shape of a clavicle bone .
the shape of a rib .
the concavity of a epiglottis .
the structure of a head of femur .
the amount of a epiphysis .
the shape of a epiphysis .
the convex 3 - d shape of a epiphysis .
the size of a epiphysis .
the mass density of a epiphysis .
the 2 - d shape of a epiphysis .
the position of a zygomatic arch .
the size of a adenohypophysis .
the opacity of a skin of body .
the size of a premaxilla .
the spatial pattern of a epiphysis .
the size of a anterior nasal spine of maxilla .
the rate of a anagen .
the symmetry of a ear .
the altered number of of a retina .
the composition of a pelvic complex .
the composition of a pectoral complex .
the position of a lacrimal punctum .
the position of a premaxilla .
the amount of a pedal digit 1 .
the size of a bronchus .
the size of a trachea .
the concavity of a nail .
the spatial pattern of a upper lip .
the position of a tongue .
the size of a palatine uvula .
the length of a palatine uvula .
the amount of a whorl of hair .
the occurrence of a proprioception .
the closure of a aortic valve .
the shape of a nucleobase metabolic process .
the functionality of a erythrocyte differentiation .
the morphology of a cerebral subcortex .
the amount of a optic tract .
the functionality of a cell .
the rate of a fructose metabolic process .
the amount of a secondary dentition .
the amount of a upper central secondary incisor tooth .
the amount of a upper central primary incisor tooth .
the amount of a lower central primary incisor tooth .
the amount of a lower central secondary incisor tooth .
the amount of a upper lateral primary incisor tooth .
the amount of a upper lateral secondary incisor tooth .
the amount of a premolar tooth .
the amount of a upper secondary premolar tooth .
the amount of a lower secondary premolar tooth .
the amount of a molar tooth .
the amount of a secondary molar tooth .
the amount of a permanent molar tooth 1 .
the amount of a permanent molar tooth 2 .
the structure of a calcareous tooth .
the convex 3 - d shape of a incisor tooth .
the morphology of a secondary molar tooth .
the altered number of of a tooth root .
the color of a calcareous tooth .
the morphology of a premolar tooth .
the convex 3 - d shape of a primary incisor tooth .
the convex 3 - d shape of a upper jaw incisor .
the amount of a peripheral nervous system myelin maintenance .
the closure of a ileum .
the amount of a alimentary part of gastrointestinal system .
the shape of a occipital bone .
the shape of a frontal cortex .
the amount of a antihelix .
the spatial pattern of a antitragus .
the amount of a antitragus .
the concavity of a antitragus .
the size of a antitragus .
the concavity of a lobule of pinna .
the amount of a tragus .
the concavity of a tragus .
the position of a tragus .
the size of a tragus .
the size of a distal segment of manual digit .
the size of a manual digit 1 .
the shape of a pedal digit .
the sharpness of a pedal digit .
the concavity of a chin .
the amount of a internal ear .
the coiling of a cochlea .
the amount of a cochlea .
the morphology of a osseus labyrinth vestibule .
the amount of a osseus labyrinth vestibule .
the size of a osseus labyrinth vestibule .
the amount of a semicircular canal .
the size of a semicircular canal .
the amount of a internal acoustic meatus .
the circumference of a internal acoustic meatus .
the size of a vestibular aqueduct .
the amount of a vestibular nerve .
the size of a vestibular nerve .
the onset quality of a myelination in peripheral nervous system .
the composition of a placenta .
the functionality of a middle ear .
the amount of a malleus bone .
the amount of a stapes bone .
the amount of a gall bladder .
the morphology of a intestinal villus .
the size of a intestinal villus .
the shape of a lens of camera - type eye .
the length of a chorda tendinea of left ventricle .
the amount of a pericardium .
the rhythm quality of a heart contraction .
the displaced of a adrenal gland .
the amount of a adrenal gland .
the structure of a neurohypophysis .
the displaced of a neurohypophysis .
the amount of a neurohypophysis .
the size of a neurohypophysis .
the concavity of a nose .
the closure of a palatal muscle .
the shape of a chin .
the length of a metatarsal bone of digit 2 .
the composition of a chordate pharynx .
the morphology of a bone collagen fibril .
the altered number of of a platelet .
the morphology of a platelet .
the volume of a platelet .
the length of a pedal digit 5 .
the rate of a mitochondrial proton - transporting atp synthase complex .
the displaced of a pedal digit 1 .
the length of a proximal phalanx of pes .
the length of a superior cerebellar peduncle of pons .
the size of a nail of pedal digit 5 .
the occurrence of a ductus venosus closure .
the composition of a substantia propria of cornea .
the size of a skeletal muscle fiber .
the shape of a mitochondrion .
the functionality of a exocrine pancreas .
the functionality of a endocrine pancreas .
the amount of a mitochondrion .
the size of a pons .
the amount of a erythroid progenitor cell .
the cellular motility of a sperm .
the amount of a granulocyte .
the size of a levator palpebrae superioris .
the size of a rectus extraocular muscle .
the morphology of a respiratory system epithelium .
the size of a proximal epiphysis of tibia .
the shape of a middle phalanx of manus .
the shape of a distal phalanx of manus .
the shape of a proximal phalanx of manus .
the curvature of a face .
the position of a jugal bone .
the position of a midface .
the rate of a carnitine o - palmitoyltransferase activity .
the position of a calcaneus .
the functionality of a biliary tree .
the onset quality of a myelination .
the strength of a orbicularis oculi muscle .
the rate of a catalase activity .
the size of a nail of manual digit 1 .
the amount of a nail of manual digit 1 .
the amount of a nail of pedal digit 1 .
the composition of a lower eyelid .
the onset quality of a menarche .
the size of a nerve .
the rate of a inflammatory response .
the composition of a pineal body .
the structure of a pineal body .
the volume of a pineal body .
the size of a pineal body .
the functionality of a pineal body .
the size of a dorsal thalamus .
the morphology of a alimentary part of gastrointestinal system .
the functionality of a alimentary part of gastrointestinal system .
the composition of a upper eyelid .
the displaced of a adenohypophysis .
the amount of a cuspid .
the amount of a mastoid process of temporal bone .
the size of a calcaneus .
the size of a external female genitalia .
the contractility of a small intestine .
the morphology of a male germ cell .
the size of a facial muscle .
the size of a scapular muscle .
the closure of a eyelid .
the amount of a uterine cervix .
the concavity of a ureter .
the deviation of a digit .
the size of a renal glomerulus .
the amount of a myelination in peripheral nervous system .
the size of a deltoid .
the curvature of a superior cerebellar peduncle of pons .
the shape of a cornea .
the position of a coccyx .
the size of a upper eyelid .
the composition of a macula lutea .
the spatial pattern of a upper eyelash .
the length of a lower eyelash .
the amount of a upper eyelash .
the shape of a radius bone .
the amount of a lymphocyte .
the amount of a natural killer cell .
the degeneration of a striatum .
the rate of a 5 - oxoprolinase  ( atp - hydrolyzing )  activity .
the morphology of a pelvic girdle bone / zone .
the displaced of a thyroid gland .
the size of a pedal digit 2 .
the size of a pedal digit 3 .
the size of a pedal digit 4 .
the size of a pedal digit 5 .
the wholeness of a epiphysis .
the composition of a musculature .
the composition of a meningeal cluster .
the structure of a metaphysis .
the size of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
the size of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
the size of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
the size of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
the size of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
the size of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
the size of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
the size of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
the size of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
the curvature of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
the curvature of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
the curvature of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
the curvature of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
the curvature of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
the amount of a mast cell .
the amount of a micturition .
the amount of a appendage girdle complex .
the composition of a periorbital region .
the composition of a eyelid .
the structure of a artery .
the symmetry of a growth .
the composition of a cartilage element .
the composition of a lung .
the morphology of a trabecular network of bone .
the position of a vagina .
the rotated of a tibia .
the structure of a multicellular organism .
the altered number of of a oligodendrocyte .
the composition of a muscle organ .
the structure of a nail of pedal digit .
the size of a areola .
the size of a triceps brachii .
the size of a celiac artery .
the size of a superior mesenteric artery .
the size of a inferior mesenteric artery .
the amount of a head of femur .
the amount of a neck of femur .
the height of a ilium .
the structure of a duodenum .
the concavity of a xiphoid process .
the position of a xiphoid process .
the size of a xiphoid process .
the closure of a operculum of brain .
the size of a ammon's horn .
the length of a corpus callosum .
the shape of a shoulder .
the duration of a penile erection .
the onset quality of a sister chromatid segregation .
the amount of a nail of manual digit 5 .
the amount of a nail of pedal digit 5 .
the amount of a lateral incisor tooth .
the amount of a lower lateral incisor tooth .
the amount of a lower lateral secondary incisor tooth .
the amount of a lower lateral primary incisor tooth .
the amount of a upper jaw incisor .
the amount of a lower jaw incisor .
the length of a external ear .
the closure of a primary palate .
the closure of a hard palate .
the displaced of a eyelash .
the amount of a eyelid .
the size of a eyelid .
the morphology of a inner ear epithelium .
the texture of a external ear .
the prominence of a external ear .
the amount of a scala media .
the morphology of a bony otic capsule .
the degeneration of a spiral organ of cochlea .
the onset quality of a outer ear unfolding .
the size of a ear .
the onset quality of a outer ear emergence .
the onset quality of a ossification .
the fragility of a skeletal system .
the size of a axial skeleton plus cranial skeleton .
the onset quality of a cranial suture .
the length of a mandible .
the length of a premaxilla .
the length of a maxilla .
the amount of a tooth placode .
the occurrence of a odontogenesis .
the onset quality of a tooth eruption .
the fragility of a calcareous tooth .
the degeneration of a molar tooth .
the growth quality of occurrent of a molar tooth .
the degeneration of a ameloblast .
the branchiness of a rib .
the amount of a chondrocyte .
the amount of a bone marrow cell .
the altered number of of a erythroid progenitor cell .
the volume of a erythrocyte .
the rate of a blood circulation .
the rate of a fertilization .
the structure of a blood vessel .
the surface feature shape of a erythrocyte .
the organization quality of a vascular system .
the amount of a patterning of blood vessels .
the closure of a blood vessel .
the size of a heart ventricle wall .
the morphology of a cardial valve .
the size of a cardial valve .
the size of a pericardium .
the size of a parietal serous pericardium .
the size of a trabecula carnea .
the amount of a trabecula carnea .
the amount of a endocardial cushion .
the amount of a necrotic cell death .
the amount of a enterocyte .
the color of a corpora quadrigemina .
the rate of a cell proliferation .
the structure of a hair follicle .
the amount of a hair follicle .
the position of a hair follicle .
the onset quality of a hair follicle development .
the rate of a catagen .
the occurrence of a hair follicle morphogenesis .
the curvature of a strand of hair .
the shape of a strand of guard hair .
the curvature of a strand of guard hair .
the curvature of a strand of awl hair .
the curvature of a strand of zigzag hair .
the curvature of a strand of auchene hair .
the amount of a strand of duvet hair .
the shape of a strand of hair .
the color saturation of a strand of hair .
the onset quality of a anagen .
the displaced of a anagen .
the amount of a palatine bone horizontal plate .
the curvature of a cranium .
the morphology of a midface .
the length of a midface .
the curvature of a midface .
the sharpness of a midface .
the texture of a midface .
the morphology of a mandible .
the size of a skeleton of lower jaw .
the amount of a trunk or cervical vertebra .
the size of a epithelium of esophagus .
the morphology of a stomach non - glandular epithelium .
the onset quality of a digestive tract development .
the morphology of a pulmonary trunk .
the amount of a nephron tubule .
the size of a inner medulla of kidney .
the onset quality of a kidney development .
the symmetry of a right lung .
the structure of a kidney blood vessel .
the size of a ureter luminal urothelium .
the size of a urinary bladder urothelium .
the morphology of a carpal bone .
the displaced of a digit .
the degree of pigmentation of a skin of metapodial pad .
the shape of a post - anal tail .
the size of a post - anal tail .
the length of a post - anal tail .
the onset quality of a liver development .
the size of a liver perisinusoidal space .
the color saturation of a liver .
the amount of a hepatocyte .
the organization quality of a hepatocyte .
the size of a saliva - secreting gland .
the size of a salivary gland epithelium .
the size of a duct of salivary gland .
the rate of a saliva secretion .
the size of a cortical cell of adrenal gland .
the size of a prostate gland dorsolateral lobe .
the size of a hemopoietic organ .
the size of a lymphoid tissue .
the morphology of a spleen .
the amount of a lymph node .
the morphology of a thymus .
the size of a cortex of thymus .
the amount of a thymocyte .
the amount of a skeletal muscle satellite cell .
the onset quality of a muscle organ development .
the rate of a muscle contraction .
the rate of a smooth muscle contraction .
the degeneration of a muscle organ .
the movement behavioral quality of a organism subdivision .
the amount of a tongue squamous epithelium .
the size of a forebrain .
the stratification of a cerebral cortex .
the morphology of a supplemental motor cortex .
the degeneration of a hippocampal neuron .
the size of a choroid plexus .
the size of a diencephalon .
the size of a hypothalamus .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a pontine flexure .
the organization quality of a barrel cortex .
the size of a cerebellum external granule cell layer .
the degeneration of a purkinje cell .
the amount of a purkinje cell .
the structure of a purkinje cell layer of cerebellar cortex .
the displaced of a purkinje cell .
the structure of a granular layer of cerebellar cortex .
the size of a molecular layer of cerebellar cortex .
the size of a midbrain .
the morphology of a facial nucleus .
the size of a facial nucleus .
the closure of a cranium .
the amount of a roof plate .
the amount of a floor plate .
the closure of a anterior neuropore .
the occurrence of a neural tube closure .
the shape of a neural tube .
the amount of a notochord .
the degeneration of a peripheral nervous system .
the organization quality of a dorsal root ganglion .
the amount of a sensory neuron .
the morphology of a polymodal nocireceptor .
the morphology of a thermoreceptor cell .
the morphology of a cutaneous / subcutaneous mechanoreceptor cell .
the morphology of a hair - tylotrich neuron .
the morphology of a hair - down neuron .
the amount of a hair - down neuron .
the morphology of a merkel cell .
the amount of a merkel cell .
the amount of a primary muscle spindle .
the amount of a secondary muscle spindle .
the amount of a golgi tendon organ .
the morphology of a chemoreceptor cell .
the morphology of a eye photoreceptor cell .
the size of a prevertebral ganglion .
the morphology of a autonomic neuron .
the morphology of a enteric nerve .
the morphology of a cholinergic enteric nerve .
the branchiness of a mandibular nerve .
the amount of a phrenic nerve .
the size of a inferior glossopharyngeal ix ganglion .
the amount of a myelinating schwann cell .
the rate of a ovarian follicle development .
the rate of a artery development .
the size of a uterine cervix .
the size of a epithelium of vagina .
the structure of a vagina orifice .
the size of a skin of prepuce of penis .
the size of a leydig cell .
the degeneration of a seminiferous tubule of testis .
the occurrence of a spermatogenesis .
the size of a prostate epithelium .
the structure of a prostate epithelium .
the size of a interalveolar septum .
the size of a alveolar system .
the amount of a alveolar system .
the rate of a pigmentation .
the color of a zone of skin .
the texture of a zone of skin .
the color saturation of a zone of skin .
the spatial pattern of a zone of skin .
the size of a zone of skin .
the opacity of a zone of skin .
the photosensitivity of a zone of skin .
the sensitivity to irradiation of a zone of skin .
the morphology of a epidermis suprabasal layer .
the organization quality of a epidermis suprabasal layer .
the size of a stratum spinosum of epidermis .
the size of a dermis .
the shape of a vibrissa unit .
the structure of a vibrissa unit .
the length of a vibrissa unit .
the spatial pattern of a vibrissa unit .
the amount of a camera - type eye .
the position of a camera - type eye .
the orientation of a lens of camera - type eye .
the structure of a lens fiber .
the opacity of a cornea .
the opacity of a pupil .
the degeneration of a retina .
the amount of a eye photoreceptor cell .
the morphology of a cranial nerve ii .
the wetness of a camera - type eye .
the position of a eyelid .
the rate of a tear secretion .
the response to of a sensory perception .
the amount of a long - term synaptic potentiation .
the amount of a long term synaptic depression .
the morphology of a coat of hair .
the functionality of a skeletal system .
the functionality of a hematopoietic system .
the volume of a blood .
the rate of a myeloid cell differentiation .
the amount of a myeloid cell differentiation .
the rate of a hemopoiesis .
the frequency of a heart contraction .
the life span of a multicellular organism .
the morphology of a apical ectodermal ridge .
the size of a apical ectodermal ridge .
the amount of a mesoderm .
the size of a endoderm .
the amount of a primitive streak formation .
the amount of a gastrulation .
the amount of a amniotic fold .
the amount of a trophoblast giant cell .
the size of a placenta labyrinth .
the amount of a ectoplacental cone .
the altered number of of a vitelline blood vessel .
the amount of a blood island .
the color saturation of a yolk sac .
the amount of a embryo implantation .
the rate of a embryo implantation .
the occurrence of a in utero embryonic development .
the rate of a corticosterone secretion .
the rate of a corticotropin - releasing hormone secretion .
the frequency of a micturition .
the composition of a zone of skin .
the composition of a pericardial cavity .
the rate of a wound healing .
the occurrence of a b cell differentiation .
the occurrence of a t cell differentiation .
the rate of a activated t cell proliferation .
the rate of a mhc class i protein complex assembly .
the rate of a antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen via mhc class i .
the amount of a mhc class i protein complex .
the size of a mammary duct .
the onset quality of a brain development .
the functionality of a parietal lobe .
the male fertility of a multicellular organism .
the female fertility of a multicellular organism .
the functionality of a olfactory system .
the structure of a pupil .
the morphology of a embryonic tissue .
the morphology of a vibrissa unit .
the functionality of a muscle organ .
the morphology of a muscle organ .
the morphology of a post - anal tail .
the morphology of a axial skeleton plus cranial skeleton .
the morphology of a bone of appendage girdle complex .
the morphology of a neural tube development .
the fecundity of a multicellular organism .
the organization quality of a myocardium .
the amount of a germ cell .
the degeneration of a nervous system .
the morphology of a larynx epithelium .
the morphology of a epithelium of trachea .
the morphology of a lymph node .
the functionality of a dendritic cell .
the morphology of a tonsil .
the morphology of a peyer's patch t cell area .
the morphology of a bone marrow .
the morphology of a double - positive ,  alpha - beta thymocyte .
the morphology of a megakaryocyte progenitor cell .
the morphology of a proerythroblast .
the morphology of a megakaryocyte .
the morphology of a osseus semicircular canal .
the morphology of a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the functionality of a professional antigen presenting cell .
the rate of a complement activation ,  alternative pathway .
the rate of a complement activation ,  classical pathway .
the organization quality of a extraembryonic structure .
the amount of a extraembryonic ectoderm .
the size of a ectoplacental cone .
the onset quality of a neural tube closure .
the degeneration of a post - anal tail .
the size of a jaw skeleton .
the rate of a intestinal cholesterol absorption .
the spatial pattern of a ameloblast .
the morphology of a ameloblast .
the size of a cardiac muscle tissue of myocardium .
the size of a cartilage tissue .
the amount of a blastocele .
the rate of a sperm motility .
the amount of a trabecula carnea cardiac muscle tissue .
the 2 - d shape of a perinuclear theca .
the opacity of a vitreous body .
the rate of a glucagon secretion .
the rate of a glycogen catabolic process .
the size of a male preputial gland .
the morphology of a male preputial gland .
the morphology of a hemopoietic organ .
the morphology of a dentate gyrus granule cell layer .
the displaced of a cerebellar granule cell .
the displaced of a bergmann glial cell .
the spatial pattern of a viscus .
the position of a anatomical system .
the size of a sertoli cell .
the rate of a regulation of water loss via skin .
the rate of a skeletal muscle contraction .
the weight of a aorta .
the rate of a glomerular filtration .
the degeneration of a cochlear ganglion .
the morphology of a melanocyte .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch .
the color pattern of a zone of skin .
the onset quality of a wound healing .
the onset quality of a synapse assembly .
the morphology of a skeletal joint .
the onset quality of a axon extension involved in axon guidance .
the amount of a otolith .
the amount of a retinal ganglion cell .
the height of a ureter .
the displaced of a thymus .
the morphology of a cervical vertebra .
the morphology of a sacral vertebra .
the morphology of a visceral serous pericardium .
the morphology of a metacarpal bone .
the amount of a natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity .
the composition of a spinal cord .
the amount of a allantois .
the tonicity of a zone of skin .
the size of a substantia propria of cornea .
the flexibility of a tendon .
the length of a jugal bone .
the amount of a malleus processus brevis .
the degree of pigmentation of a parathyroid gland .
the orientation of a urethral opening .
the morphology of a external female genitalia .
the curvature of a clitoris .
the onset quality of a cloacal septation .
the amount of a precursor b cell .
the amount of a early pro - b cell .
the amount of a late pro - b cell .
the conductivity of a myocardium .
the amount of a pinna .
the amount of a cochlear ganglion .
the amount of a tunnel of corti .
the length of a chromosome ,  telomeric region .
the rate of a relaxation of muscle .
the amount of a lateral semicircular canal .
the amount of a posterior semicircular canal .
the morphology of a scala vestibuli .
the functionality of a lysosome .
the symmetry of a left lung .
the structure of a synovial joint .
the rate of a cholesterol efflux .
the composition of a tendon .
the composition of a appendage .
the rate of a neuron apoptotic process .
the degeneration of a neuron .
the size of a axon .
the morphology of a gabaergic neuron .
the morphology of a glutamatergic neuron .
the amount of a bile duct .
the functionality of a external anal sphincter .
the position of a digestive system element .
the structure of a pylorus .
the size of a exocrine pancreas .
the rate of a ovulation .
the rate of a luteinization .
the rate of a granulosa cell differentiation .
the morphology of a hypaxial musculature .
the size of a hypaxial musculature .
the position of a body wall .
the structure of a pericardium .
the morphology of a subclavian artery .
the weight of a muscle organ .
the amount of a placenta labyrinth .
the amount of a zygote asymmetric cell division .
the degeneration of a hair follicle .
the onset quality of a endochondral ossification .
the onset quality of a intramembranous ossification .
the rate of a fibrinolysis .
the onset quality of a forebrain neuroblast differentiation .
the rate of a parathyroid gland .
the position of a seminal vesicle .
the functionality of a carotid body .
the functionality of a keratinocyte .
the response to of a cellular response to stimulus .
the threshold of a cellular response to stimulus .
the intensity of a cellular response to stimulus .
the response to of a mast cell .
the amount of a labium majora .
the curvature of a labium majora .
the amount of a labium minora .
the curvature of a labium minora .
the concavity of a vagina .
the wetness of a vagina .
the structure of a vaginal hymen .
the morphology of a skin of prepuce of penis .
the amount of a vas deferens .
the closure of a uterus .
the wholeness of a uterus .
the structure of a ureter .
the concavity of a kidney .
the position of a urinary bladder .
the spatial pattern of a urachus .
the closure of a uterine cervix .
the size of a renal medulla .
the composition of a thoracic cavity .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a long bone epiphyseal plate proliferative zone .
the rate of a sperm capacitation .
the morphology of a periodontal ligament .
the position of a lobule of pinna .
the prominence of a lobule of pinna .
the strength of a eye muscle .
the amount of a blastocyst hatching .
the onset quality of a blastocyst hatching .
the amount of a zona pellucida .
the morphology of a chromosome .
the amount of a nucleus .
the nucleate quality of a cell .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a blood vessel remodeling .
the spatial pattern of a external ear .
the morphology of a pericyte cell .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a photoreceptor layer of retina .
the mass density of a auditory ossicle bone .
the structure of a auditory ossicle bone .
the concavity of a secondary palate .
the functionality of a immune organ .
the spatial pattern of a lip .
the size of a lip .
the height of a lip .
the onset quality of a aging .
the onset quality of a somite development .
the rate of a macrophage chemotaxis .
the morphology of a type ii cell of adrenal medulla .
the structure of a coat of hair .
the fragility of a strand of hair .
the water composition of a zone of skin .
the rate of a defecation .
the composition of a feces .
the displaced of a cartilage tissue .
the morphology of a myelin sheath .
the size of a pharyngeal arch .
the amount of a pharyngeal arch .
the rate of a hepatocyte proliferation .
the position of a diaphragm .
the rate of a glucose import .
the amount of a glucose import .
the variability of a heart contraction .
the morphology of a odontoid tissue .
the onset quality of a in utero embryonic development .
the organization quality of a embryonic tissue .
the rate of a neurotransmitter secretion .
the morphology of a uterine artery .
the rate of a hemocyte proliferation .
the functionality of a blood vessel endothelial cell .
the closure of a ductus venosus .
the rate of a intestine smooth muscle contraction .
the mass of a bone element .
the amount of a chromosome .
the ploidy of a cell .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a interventricular groove .
the amount of a relaxation of muscle .
the shape of a aorta .
the size of a myocardial compact layer .
the amount of a papillary muscle of heart .
the size of a papillary muscle of heart .
the morphology of a trabecula carnea .
the size of a pair of dorsal aortae .
the size of a sarcoplasmic reticulum .
the amount of a z disc .
the texture of a cornea .
the morphology of a arteriole .
the morphology of a arch of aorta .
the conductivity of a atrioventricular bundle .
the morphology of a venule .
the size of a hypodermis .
the morphology of a chest .
the morphology of a surface mucosal cell of stomach .
the morphology of a parietal cell .
the morphology of a peptic cell .
the amount of a m band .
the closure of a arch of aorta .
the shape of a arch of aorta .
the morphology of a limbic system development .
the morphology of a parahippocampal gyrus development .
the morphology of a carotid artery segment .
the functionality of a pressoreceptor cell .
the concavity of a heart .
the size of a late embryo .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a cephalic midbrain flexure .
the morphology of a diaphysis proper .
the functionality of a cardiac muscle cell .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a iridocorneal angle .
the amount of a eye trabecular meshwork .
the amount of a pterygoid muscle .
the morphology of a epaxial musculature .
the amount of a heart looping .
the concavity of a atrium auricular region .
the morphology of a spongiotrophoblast layer .
the strength of a multicellular organism .
the color saturation of a placenta .
the morphology of a basal lamina .
the morphology of a lateral ventricle subependymal layer .
the amount of a descemet's membrane .
the degeneration of a vestibular ganglion .
the amount of a organ of corti supporting cell .
the morphology of a osseus cochlear canal .
the size of a osseus cochlear canal .
the amount of a ear vesicle .
the amount of a vestibulocochlear ganglion .
the amount of a vestibule .
the degeneration of a vestibular hair cell .
the amount of a vestibular hair cell .
the degeneration of a saccule of membranous labyrinth .
the degeneration of a macula of saccule of membranous labyrinth .
the degeneration of a utricle of membranous labyrinth .
the degeneration of a macula of utricle of membranous labyrinth .
the structure of a scapula .
the amount of a acromion .
the degeneration of a auditory hair cell .
the degeneration of a stria vascularis of cochlear duct .
the amount of a utricle of membranous labyrinth .
the structure of a tetrapod frontal bone .
the length of a tetrapod frontal bone .
the size of a interparietal bone .
the amount of a prechordal plate .
the functionality of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the amount of a cochlear inner hair cell .
the degeneration of a cochlear inner hair cell .
the amount of a outer hair cell .
the degeneration of a outer hair cell .
the amount of a auditory hair cell .
the electric potential of a cochlea .
the size of a tetrapod parietal bone .
the size of a temporal bone .
the amount of a meckel's cartilage .
the size of a occipital bone .
the structure of a occipital bone .
the size of a supraoccipital bone .
the size of a exoccipital bone .
the shape of a exoccipital bone .
the size of a basioccipital bone .
the size of a presphenoid bone .
the length of a presphenoid bone .
the amount of a sphenoid bone pterygoid process .
the size of a pterygoid bone .
the amount of a alisphenoid bone .
the size of a alisphenoid bone .
the size of a basisphenoid bone .
the structure of a basisphenoid bone .
the degeneration of a organ of corti supporting cell .
the size of a palatine bone .
the size of a turbinate bone .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a epithelium of conjunctiva .
the amount of a interdental cell of cochlea .
the degeneration of a type 1 otic fibrocyte .
the degeneration of a type 2 otic fibrocyte .
the degeneration of a type 3 otic fibrocyte .
the degeneration of a type 4 otic fibrocyte .
the rate of a glutamate secretion .
the morphology of a shoulder bone .
the duration of a parturition .
the morphology of a palatine bone horizontal plate .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a palatine process of maxilla .
the rate of a acrosome reaction .
the functionality of a sperm .
the length of a trachea .
the amount of a trachea cartilage .
the size of a allantois .
the structure of a allantois .
the morphology of a chorionic plate .
the size of a cardiac muscle cell .
the degeneration of a cardiac muscle cell .
the amount of a cardiac muscle cell .
the size of a glossopharyngeal nerve .
the amount of a limb bud .
the size of a limb bud .
the morphology of a footplate .
the degeneration of a pillar cell .
the morphology of a mandible coronoid process .
the morphology of a mandible condylar process .
the morphology of a mandible angular process .
the morphology of a neural arch .
the morphology of a vertebra lamina .
the morphology of a vertebral bone 1 .
the morphology of a vertebral bone 2 .
the structure of a vertebra .
the morphology of a trochanter .
the degeneration of a deiter's cell .
the morphology of a spiral modiolar artery .
the structure of a spiral modiolar artery .
the length of a metatarsal bone .
the amount of a metatarsal bone .
the amount of a cervical vertebra .
the amount of a lumbar vertebra .
the amount of a thoracic vertebra .
the amount of a sacral vertebra .
the onset quality of a inner ear development .
the morphology of a stapedial artery .
the wholeness of a rib .
the shape of a xiphoid cartilage .
the structure of a xiphoid cartilage .
the size of a xiphoid cartilage .
the size of a intervertebral disk .
the morphology of a thyroid follicle .
the length of a lumbar vertebra .
the degeneration of a cervical vertebra .
the size of a notochord .
the degeneration of a notochord .
the shape of a notochord .
the morphology of a cochlear nerve .
the morphology of a vestibular nerve .
the morphology of a platelet dense granule .
the amount of a platelet dense granule .
the morphology of a nasal capsule .
the size of a thoracic cavity .
the morphology of a synaptic vesicle .
the composition of a bile .
the degeneration of a vestibular dark cell .
the amount of a macrophage derived foam cell .
the composition of a pulmonary surfactant .
the morphology of a cardinal vein .
the morphology of a anterior cardinal vein .
the morphology of a posterior cardinal vein .
the morphology of a common cardinal vein .
the morphology of a pair of dorsal aortae .
the amount of a synaptic vesicle .
the morphology of a hematopoietic stem cell .
the amount of a hematopoietic stem cell .
the functionality of a neuron .
the frequency of a somatic hypermutation of immunoglobulin genes .
the mass of a skeletal muscle tissue .
the length of a incisor tooth .
the morphology of a crypt of lieberkuhn of small intestine .
the morphology of a crypt of lieberkuhn of large intestine .
the morphology of a paneth cell .
the weight of a testis .
the size of a collecting duct of renal tubule .
the degeneration of a spiral ligament .
the amount of a nasal septum .
the morphology of a endometrium .
the amount of a zygomatic arch .
the size of a male germ cell .
the weight of a uterus .
the weight of a seminal vesicle .
the amount of a mandible condylar process .
the amount of a mandible coronoid process .
the amount of a mandible angular process .
the amount of a ultimobranchial body .
the amount of a reichert's cartilage .
the morphology of a crus commune .
the size of a epididymis .
the weight of a epididymis .
the morphology of a epididymis epithelium .
the degeneration of a epididymis epithelium .
the degeneration of a epididymis .
the functionality of a branching involved in ureteric bud morphogenesis .
the morphology of a blastocyst development .
the weight of a prostate gland .
the morphology of a blastocele .
the amount of a inner cell mass .
the degeneration of a inner cell mass .
the morphology of a kidney epithelium .
the size of a kidney epithelium .
the color saturation of a kidney .
the amount of a regulatory t cell .
the amount of a b - 1 b cell .
the amount of a neuroblast  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
the amount of a osteoclast .
the amount of a osteoblast .
the morphology of a main ciliary ganglion .
the rate of a bone resorption .
the rate of a synapse assembly .
the rate of a lymphocyte anergy .
the morphology of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a late pro - b cell .
the amount of a amnion .
the amount of a mhc class ii protein complex .
the altered number of of a white pulp of spleen .
the morphology of a lysosome .
the rate of a natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity .
the morphology of a melanosome .
the functionality of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta cytotoxic t cell .
the rate of a acute inflammatory response .
the amount of a double - positive ,  alpha - beta thymocyte .
the rate of a b cell proliferation .
the rate of a t cell proliferation .
the rate of a cardiac muscle contraction .
the structure of a gubernaculum  ( male or female )  .
the position of a intestine .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a establishment of blood - brain barrier .
the shape of a upper lip .
the closure of a camera - type eye .
the morphology of a iris epithelium .
the spatial pattern of a canal of schlemm .
the organization quality of a epithelium of stomach .
the size of a epithelium of stomach .
the morphology of a smooth muscle of eye .
the morphology of a renal glomerulus .
the growth quality of occurrent of a incisor tooth .
the functionality of a myeloid dendritic cell .
the variability of color of a coat of hair .
the onset quality of a fertilization .
the amount of a oocyte .
the composition of a multicellular organism .
the functionality of a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the functionality of a t - helper 1 cell .
the functionality of a t - helper 2 cell .
the size of a clara cell .
the size of a acinar cell .
the concavity of a cranial nerve ii .
the morphology of a olfactory system .
the morphology of a skeletal system .
the rate of a liver regeneration .
the size of a pigmented layer of retina .
the rate of a renal filtration .
the frequency of a respiratory gaseous exchange .
the morphology of a meckel's cartilage .
the functionality of a blood vessel smooth muscle .
the contractility of a muscle organ .
the degeneration of a heart right ventricle .
the morphology of a gonad mesenchyme .
the functionality of a adipose tissue .
the functionality of a white adipose tissue .
the morphology of a collection of basal ganglia .
the altered number of of a strial intermediate cell .
the structure of a vestibular membrane of cochlear duct .
the rate of a lung alveolus development .
the functionality of a mitochondrion .
the rate of a mitochondrial fission .
the rate of a apoptotic process .
the sufficiency of a atrioventricular valve .
the sufficiency of a semi - lunar valve .
the morphology of a endothelial cell of vascular tree .
the amount of a endothelial cell of vascular tree .
the symmetry of a right cardiac atrium .
the morphology of a retinal progenitor cell .
the morphology of a retinal bipolar neuron .
the morphology of a rod bipolar cell .
the morphology of a cone retinal bipolar cell .
the functionality of a blood - cerebrospinal fluid barrier .
the size of a fat cell .
the amount of a cerebellum lobule .
the size of a granular layer of cerebellar cortex .
the occurrence of a cardiac muscle contraction .
the position of a aortic valve .
the closure of a mitral valve .
the closure of a tricuspid valve .
the structure of a tricuspid valve .
the position of a pulmonary valve .
the closure of a pulmonary valve .
the composition of a pulmonary valve .
the composition of a tricuspid valve .
the closure of a artery .
the closure of a vein .
the conductivity of a atrioventricular node .
the conductivity of a sinoatrial node .
the functionality of a lateral rectus extra - ocular muscle .
the functionality of a medial rectus extraocular muscle .
the movement behavioral quality of a superior rectus extraocular muscle .
the degeneration of a optic choroid .
the composition of a camera - type eye .
the degeneration of a cranial nerve ii .
the curvature of a cranial nerve ii .
the composition of a cranial nerve ii .
the wholeness of a camera - type eye .
the color of a pupil .
the movement behavioral quality of a lateral rectus extra - ocular muscle .
the curvature of a digit .
the morphology of a dorsal horn of spinal cord .
the size of a internal ear .
the size of a bony otic capsule .
the structure of a olfactory placode .
the amount of a olfactory placode .
the amount of a optic vesicle .
the amount of a sclerotome .
the morphology of a entorhinal cortex .
the morphology of a mesenchyme .
the morphology of a ectomesenchyme .
the morphology of a nerve fiber layer of retina .
the morphology of a optic eminence .
the morphology of a olfactory pit .
the structure of a perichondrium .
the rate of a sensory perception of sound .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
the size of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
the amount of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
the size of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
the amount of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch artery 4 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch artery 6 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch artery 3 .
the morphology of a female germ cell .
the amount of a strand of auchene hair .
the amount of a strand of awl hair .
the amount of a strand of guard hair .
the amount of a strand of zigzag hair .
the functionality of a placenta .
the morphology of a spermatogonium .
the morphology of a spermatocyte .
the morphology of a spermatid .
the morphology of a lung epithelium .
the amount of a somite .
the morphology of a nucleus pulposus .
the amount of a nucleus pulposus .
the organization quality of a epiphyseal plate .
the size of a epiphyseal plate .
the morphology of a long bone epiphyseal ossification zone .
the amount of a preputial gland .
the size of a molar tooth .
the morphology of a common myeloid progenitor .
the rate of a t cell apoptotic process .
the morphology of a rete testis .
the morphology of a peritubular myoid cell .
the size of a rete testis .
the amount of a testis sex cord .
the altered number of of a mullerian duct .
the degeneration of a mullerian duct .
the displaced of a leydig cell .
the displaced of a sertoli cell .
the morphology of a hyaline cartilage tissue .
the morphology of a elastic cartilage tissue .
the morphology of a fibrocartilage .
the morphology of a articular cartilage of joint .
the acidity of a stomach .
the onset quality of a cell aging .
the morphology of a female inguinal canal .
the morphology of a male inguinal canal .
the morphology of a brain white matter .
the morphology of a white matter of spinal cord .
the amount of a cajal - retzius cell .
the rate of a lipid catabolic process .
the morphology of a mature nk t cell .
the amount of a mature nk t cell .
the functionality of a mature nk t cell .
the amount of a decidual natural killer cell .
the amount of a memory t cell .
the morphology of a serous gland .
the morphology of a decidual natural killer cell .
the morphology of a retinal ganglion cell .
the morphology of a obsolete podocyte foot process .
the morphology of a podocyte slit diaphragm .
the amount of a podocyte slit diaphragm .
the morphology of a podocyte slit junction .
the shape of a endolymphatic duct .
the degeneration of a retinal ganglion cell .
the amount of a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the amount of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the amount of a t - helper 1 cell .
the amount of a t - helper 2 cell .
the amount of a memory b cell .
the amount of a plasma cell .
the degeneration of a amacrine cell .
the amount of a amacrine cell .
the amount of a retina horizontal cell .
the amount of a langerhans cell .
the amount of a myeloid dendritic cell .
the amount of a plasmacytoid dendritic cell .
the amount of a dendritic cell .
the morphology of a internal capsule of telencephalon .
the amount of a internal capsule of telencephalon .
the morphology of a pars intermedia of adenohypophysis .
the amount of a peyer's patch .
the amount of a glomerular visceral epithelial cell .
the amount of a obsolete podocyte foot process .
the amount of a b - 1a b cell .
the amount of a b - 1b b cell .
the amount of a follicular b cell .
the amount of a germinal center b cell .
the amount of a marginal zone b cell .
the amount of a naive b cell .
the amount of a pro - b cell .
the amount of a transitional stage b cell .
the morphology of a professional antigen presenting cell .
the amount of a follicular dendritic cell .
the amount of a b - 2 b cell .
the amount of a mature b cell .
the amount of a immature b cell .
the morphology of a dorsal telencephalic commissure .
the morphology of a ventral commissure .
the morphology of a hippocampal commissure .
the size of a hippocampal commissure .
the amount of a hippocampal commissure .
the morphology of a anterior commissure .
the size of a anterior commissure .
the amount of a anterior commissure .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a habenular commissure .
the morphology of a cingulum of brain .
the amount of a marginal zone of spleen .
the morphology of a macrophage derived foam cell .
the morphology of a mononuclear cell .
the morphology of a myeloid leukocyte .
the morphology of a myometrium .
the size of a myometrium .
the size of a endometrium .
the occurrence of a male meiosis .
the morphology of a hippocampal field .
the morphology of a ca1 field of hippocampus .
the morphology of a ca2 field of hippocampus .
the morphology of a ca3 field of hippocampus .
the morphology of a ca4 field of hippocampus .
the occurrence of a ossification .
the amount of a endochondral ossification .
the amount of a intramembranous ossification .
the occurrence of a spermatid development .
the morphology of a hippocampus molecular layer .
the morphology of a subiculum .
the morphology of a adrenal cortex .
the amount of a adrenal cortex .
the morphology of a zona glomerulosa of adrenal gland .
the morphology of a zona fasciculata of adrenal gland .
the morphology of a zona reticularis of adrenal gland .
the morphology of a adrenal gland x zone .
the size of a type ii cell of adrenal medulla .
the functionality of a organ of corti supporting cell .
the length of a scala media .
the morphology of a pterygopalatine ganglion .
the morphology of a otic ganglion .
the morphology of a splanchnic nerve .
the morphology of a sympathetic afferent fiber .
the amount of a adenohypophysis .
the morphology of a somatotropin secreting cell .
the morphology of a prolactin secreting cell .
the morphology of a melanocyte stimulating hormone secreting cell .
the morphology of a gonadtroph .
the morphology of a thyrotroph .
the morphology of a adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
the amount of a somatotropin secreting cell .
the amount of a prolactin secreting cell .
the amount of a gonadtroph .
the amount of a thyrotroph .
the amount of a adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
the amount of a gamma - delta t cell .
the amount of a gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell .
the amount of a mature gamma - delta t cell .
the amount of a cd4 - negative cd8 - negative gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell .
the amount of a cd8 - alpha alpha positive ,  gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell .
the size of a pars intermedia of adenohypophysis .
the length of a malleus bone .
the morphology of a manubrium of malleus .
the height of a manubrium of malleus .
the size of a manubrium of malleus .
the amount of a manubrium of malleus .
the size of a malleus processus brevis .
the amount of a malleus head .
the morphology of a gonial bone .
the amount of a gonial bone .
the size of a gonial bone .
the amount of a nasal capsule .
the amount of a basisphenoid bone .
the amount of a styloid process of temporal bone .
the morphology of a primordial germ cell .
the amount of a primordial germ cell .
the size of a somatotropin secreting cell .
the morphology of a cutaneous elastic tissue .
the morphology of a cutaneous microfibril .
the size of a thyrotroph .
the size of a prolactin secreting cell .
the size of a gonadtroph .
the size of a adrenocorticotropic hormone secreting cell .
the amount of a parotid gland .
the length of a squamous part of temporal bone .
the morphology of a cortical plate .
the morphology of a cortical subplate .
the size of a cortical plate .
the organization quality of a cortical plate .
the amount of a cortical subplate .
the degeneration of a retinal cone cell .
the amount of a retinal cone cell .
the degeneration of a eye photoreceptor cell .
the degeneration of a retinal rod cell .
the amount of a retinal rod cell .
the morphology of a cortical intermediate zone .
the amount of a dorsal root ganglion .
the symmetry of a left cardiac atrium .
the morphology of a medium spiny neuron .
the amount of a peripheral lymph node .
the amount of a mesenteric lymph node .
the amount of a sensory neuron of dorsal root ganglion .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a spleen follicular dendritic cell network .
the amount of a red pulp of spleen .
the amount of a white pulp of spleen .
the amount of a muscle spindle .
the morphology of a mesonephros .
the morphology of a semicircular canal ampulla .
the degeneration of a dorsal root ganglion .
the morphology of a gray matter of spinal cord .
the morphology of a type i cell of adrenal medulla .
the size of a ganglionic layer of retina .
the organization quality of a ganglionic layer of retina .
the amount of a ganglionic layer of retina .
the size of a inner nuclear layer of retina .
the organization quality of a inner nuclear layer of retina .
the size of a inner plexiform layer of retina .
the amount of a inner plexiform layer of retina .
the size of a outer nuclear layer of retina .
the organization quality of a outer nuclear layer of retina .
the degeneration of a outer nuclear layer of retina .
the size of a outer plexiform layer of retina .
the organization quality of a outer plexiform layer of retina .
the height of a cranium .
the morphology of a anterior visceral endoderm .
the morphology of a cerebral hemisphere .
the rate of a sensory perception of smell .
the amount of a sperm flagellum .
the rate of a interferon - alpha secretion .
the rate of a interferon - beta secretion .
the rate of a interferon - gamma secretion .
the morphology of a terminal bouton .
the degeneration of a photoreceptor inner segment .
the organization quality of a photoreceptor inner segment .
the length of a photoreceptor inner segment .
the amount of a photoreceptor inner segment .
the degeneration of a photoreceptor outer segment .
the amount of a photoreceptor outer segment .
the organization quality of a photoreceptor outer segment .
the length of a photoreceptor outer segment .
the rate of a interleukin - 1 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 1 alpha secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 1 beta secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 10 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 12 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 13 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 15 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 16 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 17 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 18 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 2 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 23 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 3 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 4 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 5 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 6 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 7 secretion .
the rate of a interleukin - 9 secretion .
the rate of a neutrophil chemotaxis .
the rate of a eosinophil chemotaxis .
the position of a t cell anergy .
the viability of a embryo .
the amount of a mast cell degranulation .
the shape of a vertebral column .
the pressure of a cardiac ventricle .
the morphology of a manubrium of sternum .
the morphology of a hindgut .
the morphology of a tailgut .
the morphology of a fetal cardiomyocyte .
the amount of a natural killer cell degranulation .
the morphology of a erythroid progenitor cell .
the morphology of a intestine smooth muscle .
the structure of a placental labyrinth vasculature .
the amount of a common myeloid progenitor .
the structure of a interfrontal bone .
the amount of a interventricular septum membranous part .
the morphology of a nucleolus .
the amount of a acrosomal vesicle .
the wholeness of a capsule of lens .
the amount of a subcutaneous adipose tissue .
the morphology of a paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus .
the morphology of a supraoptic nucleus .
the morphology of a suprachiasmatic nucleus .
the morphology of a anterior nucleus of hypothalamus .
the phase of a catagen .
the phase of a telogen .
the symmetry of a midface .
the symmetry of a head .
the morphology of a granulosa cell .
the amount of a ovulation .
the altered number of of a mature ovarian follicle .
the amount of a ovarian follicle .
the amount of a harderian gland .
the functionality of a enterocyte .
the morphology of a pml body .
the morphology of a nuclear speck .
the morphology of a cajal body .
the morphology of a nuclear lamina .
the morphology of a sperm flagellum .
the attachment quality of a sperm flagellum .
the amount of a intraepithelial lymphocyte .
the morphology of a acrosomal vesicle .
the amount of a epididymal fat pad .
the weight of a fat pad .
the spatial pattern of a autopod region .
the structure of a carpal bone .
the functionality of a astrocyte .
the functionality of a oligodendrocyte .
the amount of a vertebral bone 2 .
the amount of a granule cell .
the morphology of a anterior definitive endoderm .
the morphology of a parafascicular nucleus .
the morphology of a paracentral nucleus .
the morphology of a central medial nucleus .
the morphology of a medial geniculate body .
the morphology of a paraventricular nucleus of thalamus .
the functionality of a embryonic tissue .
the amount of a choroid plexus .
the weight of a pituitary gland .
the functionality of a type d enteroendocrine cell .
the structure of a placenta junctional zone .
the morphology of a glycogen accumulating cell .
the morphology of a spongiotrophoblast cell .
the morphology of a lacrimal apparatus .
the morphology of a nasolacrimal duct .
the structure of a nasal concha of ethmoid bone .
the size of a nasal concha of ethmoid bone .
the weight of a vagina .
the morphology of a liver parenchyma .
the morphology of a liver lobule .
the morphology of a liver perisinusoidal space .
the morphology of a hepatic sinusoid .
the morphology of a hepatic stellate cell .
the morphology of a bile canaliculus .
the morphology of a portal lobule .
the morphology of a portal triad .
the osmolality of a blood .
the amount of a anus .
the amount of a caecum .
the amount of a vibrissa unit .
the morphology of a sesamoid bone of gastrocnemius .
the duration of a ovulation cycle .
the onset quality of a estrus .
the amount of a ovulation cycle .
the occurrence of a diestrus .
the occurrence of a proestrus .
the occurrence of a estrus .
the amount of a estrus .
the morphology of a brain meninx .
the morphology of a meninx of spinal cord .
the morphology of a brain dura mater .
the morphology of a brain pia mater .
the morphology of a subarachnoid space .
the morphology of a chiasmatic cistern .
the morphology of a basal cistern .
the morphology of a pontine cistern .
the morphology of a cerebellomedullary cistern .
the morphology of a subarachnoid cistern .
the morphology of a posterior cerebellomedullary cistern .
the morphology of a lateral cerebellomedullary cistern .
the morphology of a quadrigeminal cistern .
the amount of a posterior cerebellomedullary cistern .
the amount of a inferior colliculus .
the amount of a superior colliculus .
the amount of a corpora quadrigemina .
the occurrence of a metestrus .
the morphology of a pedal digit 1 .
the size of a proximal convoluted tubule .
the size of a distal convoluted tubule .
the morphology of a anal canal .
the morphology of a internal anal sphincter .
the rate of a interleukin - 21 secretion .
the weight of a fallopian tube .
the amount of a upper part of vagina .
the amount of a mesonephric duct .
the degeneration of a mesonephric duct .
the morphology of a upper part of vagina .
the position of a intervertebral disk .
the structure of a uterus .
the size of a uterine horn .
the degeneration of a oocyte .
the morphology of a endometrial gland .
the amount of a endometrial gland .
the functionality of a decidual natural killer cell .
the morphology of a glans penis .
the morphology of a os penis .
the size of a os penis .
the position of a penis .
the weight of a pancreas .
the mass of a type b pancreatic cell .
the size of a brown fat cell .
the amount of a brown fat cell .
the amount of a white fat cell .
the amount of a mullerian duct regression .
the size of a efferent duct .
the amount of a prepulse inhibition .
the morphology of a pancreatic duct .
the size of a pancreatic duct .
the morphology of a pancreatic acinus .
the functionality of a pancreatic acinar cell .
the size of a pancreatic acinar cell .
the size of a pancreatic acinus .
the amount of a pancreatic acinus .
the displaced of a pancreatic acinar cell .
the amount of a pancreatic acinar cell .
the amount of a pancreatic duct .
the amount of a islet of langerhans .
the amount of a pancreatic a cell .
the amount of a pancreatic d cell .
the amount of a type d enteroendocrine cell .
the morphology of a pp cell .
the amount of a pp cell .
the morphology of a pancreatic epsilon cell .
the altered number of of a pancreatic epsilon cell .
the amount of a pancreatic epsilon cell .
the functionality of a pancreatic epsilon cell .
the functionality of a pp cell .
the morphology of a male reproductive organ .
the morphology of a external male genitalia .
the size of a external male genitalia .
the amount of a external male genitalia .
the morphology of a internal male genitalia .
the amount of a internal male genitalia .
the size of a internal male genitalia .
the morphology of a female reproductive organ .
the morphology of a internal female genitalia .
the amount of a internal female genitalia .
the amount of a mammalian vulva .
the amount of a inguinal canal .
the size of a vas deferens .
the amount of a uterine horn .
the morphology of a peritoneal vaginal process .
the amount of a peritoneal vaginal process .
the amount of a endometrium .
the morphology of a median eminence of neurohypophysis .
the attachment quality of a acrosomal vesicle .
the shape of a sperm flagellum .
the coiling of a sperm flagellum .
the length of a sperm flagellum .
the color saturation of a spleen .
the amount of a caput epididymis .
the size of a caput epididymis .
the size of a endometrial gland .
the amount of a urinary bladder .
the organization quality of a islet of langerhans .
the size of a corpus epididymis .
the structure of a saccule duct .
the morphology of a utricle duct .
the morphology of a utricle valve .
the amount of a semicircular canal ampulla .
the morphology of a cerebellum fissure .
the amount of a cerebellum fissure .
the length of a strand of guard hair .
the functionality of a bone marrow cell .
the weight of a gonadal fat pad .
the weight of a epididymal fat pad .
the weight of a inguinal fat pad .
the weight of a parametrial fat pad .
the weight of a retroperitoneal fat pad .
the amount of a hippocampus fimbria .
the onset quality of a heart looping .
the morphology of a primitive pit .
the morphology of a primitive groove .
the amount of a primitive knot .
the thickness of a trabecular bone tissue .
the size of a trabecular bone tissue .
the acidity of a urine .
the size of a hair shaft .
the morphology of a primordial ovarian follicle .
the morphology of a primary ovarian follicle .
the morphology of a secondary ovarian follicle .
the morphology of a mature ovarian follicle .
the morphology of a theca cell layer .
the morphology of a theca interna .
the morphology of a theca externa .
the amount of a theca cell layer .
the amount of a theca cell .
the amount of a ovarian cumulus expansion .
the size of a zona pellucida .
the morphology of a manchette .
the displaced of a manchette .
the morphology of a endoplasmic reticulum .
the morphology of a prostate gland ventral lobe .
the morphology of a prostate gland dorsolateral lobe .
the morphology of a cardiac jelly .
the morphology of a dermal melanocyte .
the length of a cell of skeletal muscle .
the amount of a cell of skeletal muscle .
the spatial pattern of a cell of skeletal muscle .
the morphology of a skeletal muscle fiber triad .
the degeneration of a cell of skeletal muscle .
the degeneration of a skeletal muscle tissue .
the degeneration of a myocardium .
the size of a cardiac muscle tissue .
the weight of a gastrocnemius .
the weight of a extensor digitorum longus .
the weight of a soleus muscle .
the weight of a tibialis anterior .
the weight of a tongue .
the weight of a embryo .
the weight of a late embryo .
the strength of a hindlimb .
the functionality of a platelet dense granule .
the morphology of a pituitary stalk .
the morphology of a infundibulum of gallbladder .
the morphology of a uterine tube infundibulum .
the morphology of a magnocellular neurosecretory cell .
the altered number of of a magnocellular neurosecretory cell .
the size of a caecum .
the coiling of a caecum .
the structure of a caecum .
the size of a ileum .
the structure of a ileum .
the morphology of a blood vessel endothelium .
the morphology of a epithelium of gall bladder .
the morphology of a cystic duct .
the morphology of a biliary ductule .
the morphology of a common bile duct .
the morphology of a common hepatic duct .
the morphology of a intrahepatic bile duct .
the morphology of a extrahepatic bile duct .
the morphology of a intralobular bile duct .
the morphology of a interlobular bile duct .
the morphology of a hepatic duct .
the morphology of a epithelium of mammary gland .
the morphology of a lobule of mammary gland .
the morphology of a mammary gland connective tissue .
the amount of a rectum .
the closure of a caecum .
the morphology of a cerebellar golgi cell .
the morphology of a anterior lingual gland .
the morphology of a anterior buccal gland .
the size of a submandibular gland .
the amount of a submandibular gland .
the morphology of a submandibular duct .
the amount of a sublingual gland .
the morphology of a sublingual duct .
the morphology of a major sublingual duct .
the morphology of a minor sublingual duct .
the morphology of a parotid main excretory duct .
the size of a parotid gland .
the amount of a palatine gland .
the amount of a anterior lingual gland .
the morphology of a skin sebaceous gland .
the morphology of a interstitial cell of cajal .
the size of a interstitial cell of cajal .
the amount of a hassall's corpuscle .
the rate of a thymocyte apoptotic process .
the amount of a stratum granulosum of epidermis .
the degeneration of a superior cervical ganglion .
the morphology of a left lung .
the morphology of a right lung .
the morphology of a right lung accessory lobe .
the morphology of a upper lobe of right lung .
the morphology of a middle lobe of right lung .
the morphology of a lower lobe of right lung .
the morphology of a pubic symphysis .
the amount of a head .
the rate of a keratinocyte apoptotic process .
the rate of a keratinocyte proliferation .
the displaced of a bone element .
the amount of a chorion .
the morphology of a cornified envelope .
the size of a cornified envelope .
the size of a stratum granulosum of epidermis .
the amount of a basioccipital bone .
the size of a epidermis suprabasal layer .
the amount of a stratum spinosum of epidermis .
the morphology of a primary vitreous .
the size of a primary vitreous .
the amount of a inguinal lymph node .
the amount of a brachial lymph node .
the amount of a axillary lymph node .
the amount of a cervical lymph node .
the amount of a popliteal lymph node .
the morphology of a pretectal region .
the morphology of a olivary pretectal nucleus .
the morphology of a nephron tubule epithelium .
the degeneration of a kidney .
the frequency of a fertilization .
the onset quality of a embryo implantation .
the morphology of a transverse palatine fold .
the shape of a coat of hair .
the functionality of a uterus .
the morphology of a spinal cord lateral column .
the morphology of a spinal cord ventral column .
the morphology of a medulla oblongata anterior median fissure .
the morphology of a pyramidal decussation .
the morphology of a ventral corticospinal tract .
the morphology of a lateral corticospinal tract .
the morphology of a spinal cord lateral motor column .
the morphology of a spinal cord motor column .
the morphology of a spinal cord medial motor column .
the morphology of a central canal of spinal cord .
the morphology of a neural tube ventricular layer .
the morphology of a neural tube mantle layer .
the morphology of a neural tube marginal layer .
the morphology of a spinal cord alar plate .
the morphology of a neural tube basal plate .
the morphology of a spinal cord commissure .
the morphology of a spinal cord ventral commissure .
the morphology of a spinal cord gray commissure .
the morphology of a midgut .
the amount of a midgut .
the amount of a external acoustic meatus .
the size of a stratum basale of epidermis .
the morphology of a subcommissural organ .
the amount of a subcommissural organ .
the amount of a purkinje cell layer of cerebellar cortex .
the spatial pattern of a mammary gland .
the amount of a mammary gland .
the displaced of a nipple .
the amount of a lens vesicle .
the morphology of a future meninx .
the morphology of a navicular bone of pes .
the amount of a tarsal skeleton .
the morphology of a prostate duct .
the structure of a prostate gland .
the size of a prostate gland anterior lobe .
the displaced of a mammary gland .
the morphology of a hair follicle bulge .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a mitotic spindle .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a meiotic spindle .
the morphology of a optic chiasma .
the amount of a optic chiasma .
the amount of a retina .
the functionality of a chondrocyte .
the orientation of a basicranium .
the morphology of a melanoblast .
the morphology of a ophthalmic nerve .
the morphology of a maxillary nerve .
the morphology of a fourth ventricle median aperture .
the morphology of a fourth ventricle lateral aperture .
the morphology of a interventricular foramen of cns .
the amount of a fourth ventricle median aperture .
the morphology of a pelvic ligament .
the amount of a oligodendrocyte .
the size of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
the morphology of a sperm connecting piece .
the morphology of a sperm midpiece .
the morphology of a sperm mitochondrial sheath .
the morphology of a sperm annulus .
the amount of a sperm annulus .
the morphology of a sperm principal piece .
the morphology of a sperm end piece .
the morphology of a foam cell .
the altered number of of a foam cell .
the morphology of a migratory neural crest cell .
the morphology of a neural crest .
the onset quality of a gastric emptying .
the amount of a cortex of kidney .
the opacity of a camera - type eye .
the morphology of a pyloric sphincter .
the morphology of a heart elastic tissue .
the morphology of a aorta endothelium .
the morphology of a aorta smooth muscle tissue .
the morphology of a aorta wall .
the morphology of a ascending aorta .
the morphology of a descending thoracic aorta .
the morphology of a descending aorta .
the morphology of a abdominal aorta .
the morphology of a aorta tunica adventitia .
the morphology of a aorta tunica intima .
the morphology of a aorta tunica media .
the morphology of a cervical vertebra 1 arcus anterior .
the amount of a secondary palatal shelf .
the size of a secondary palatal shelf .
the elevation of a secondary palatal shelf .
the shape of a secondary palate .
the size of a palate bone .
the shape of a primary palate .
the size of a palatine bone horizontal plate .
the size of a palatine process of maxilla .
the size of a hyoid bone .
the size of a vomer .
the morphology of a frontonasal prominence .
the morphology of a lateral nasal prominence .
the morphology of a medial nasal prominence .
the amount of a tongue .
the branchiness of a tongue .
the morphology of a hyoid bone greater horn .
the morphology of a hyoid bone lesser horn .
the amount of a hyoid bone lesser horn .
the amount of a hyoid bone greater horn .
the morphology of a hyoid bone body .
the morphology of a stylohyoid ligament .
the amount of a t1 b cell .
the amount of a t2 b cell .
the morphology of a tarsal gland acinus .
the morphology of a dendritic spine .
the morphology of a hippocampal granule cell .
the morphology of a periglomerular cell .
the morphology of a accessory olfactory bulb .
the morphology of a olfactory bulb layer .
the morphology of a olfactory bulb external plexiform layer .
the morphology of a olfactory bulb glomerular layer .
the morphology of a olfactory bulb granule cell layer .
the morphology of a olfactory bulb internal plexiform layer .
the morphology of a olfactory bulb mitral cell layer .
the morphology of a olfactory bulb subependymal zone .
the morphology of a olfactory tubercle .
the morphology of a mitral cell .
the morphology of a olfactory bulb tufted cell .
the morphology of a cerebellar layer .
the amount of a cerebellar granule cell .
the morphology of a cerebellar hemisphere .
the morphology of a anterior lobe of cerebellum .
the morphology of a flocculonodular lobe .
the morphology of a posterior lobe of cerebellum .
the morphology of a cerebellum hemisphere lobule .
the morphology of a cerebellum lobule .
the morphology of a cerebrocerebellum .
the morphology of a cerebellum intermediate zone .
the morphology of a cerebellar peduncle .
the morphology of a white matter of cerebellum .
the morphology of a nucleus of cerebellar nuclear complex .
the morphology of a dentate nucleus .
the morphology of a emboliform nucleus .
the morphology of a cerebellum globose nucleus .
the morphology of a fastigial nucleus .
the morphology of a cerebellum interpositus nucleus .
the morphology of a inferior cerebellar peduncle .
the morphology of a middle cerebellar peduncle .
the morphology of a superior cerebellar peduncle .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule i .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule ii .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule iii .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule iv .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule v .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule vi .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule vii .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule x .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule viia .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule viib .
the morphology of a copula pyramidis .
the morphology of a ansiform lobule .
the morphology of a ansiform lobule crus i .
the morphology of a ansiform lobule crus ii .
the morphology of a paramedian lobule .
the morphology of a lobule simplex .
the morphology of a flocculus .
the morphology of a paraflocculus .
the morphology of a piriform cortex .
the morphology of a island of calleja .
the displaced of a hippocampal pyramidal neuron .
the morphology of a cuticular plate .
the structure of a lung blood vessel .
the structure of a heart blood vessel .
the structure of a brain blood vessel .
the displaced of a melanocyte .
the morphology of a hepatic oval stem cell .
the amount of a hepatic oval stem cell .
the functionality of a hepatic oval stem cell .
the morphology of a frontonasal suture .
the morphology of a omental fat pad .
the weight of a omental fat pad .
the convex 3 - d shape of a axon .
the functionality of a sensory neuron .
the displaced of a skeletal muscle tissue .
the morphology of a olfactory bulb outer nerve layer .
the functionality of a hepatocyte .
the color of a incisor tooth .
the spatial pattern of a retina blood vessel .
the altered number of of a cervical vertebra .
the altered number of of a caudal vertebra .
the size of a thoracic rib cage .
the morphology of a sublingual ganglion .
the morphology of a fused sacrum .
the morphology of a bone of tail .
the morphology of a embryonic cloaca .
the morphology of a primitive urogenital sinus .
the morphology of a parvocellular neurosecretory cell .
the morphology of a distal visceral endoderm .
the size of a blood .
the organization quality of a hair shaft .
the morphology of a spermatic cord .
the morphology of a mandibular ramus .
the morphology of a spinal cord ependyma .
the morphology of a brain ependyma .
the morphology of a gastroesophageal sphincter .
the functionality of a gastroesophageal sphincter .
the functionality of a intestine .
the functionality of a crypt of lieberkuhn of small intestine .
the amount of a cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cell .
the morphology of a pancreatic centro - acinar cell .
the functionality of a epithelium of mammary gland .
the rate of a mammary gland epithelial cell proliferation .
the texture of a coat of hair .
the morphology of a cd4 - positive helper t cell .
the morphology of a t follicular helper cell .
the amount of a t follicular helper cell .
the functionality of a t follicular helper cell .
the morphology of a retinal melanocyte .
the amount of a lymphatic vessel .
the morphology of a lymphatic vessel endothelium .
the morphology of a lymphatic vessel smooth muscle .
the morphology of a chromosome ,  telomeric region .
the prominence of a mandible .
the morphology of a t - helper 17 cell .
the amount of a t - helper 17 cell .
the functionality of a t - helper 17 cell .
the weight of a quadriceps femoris .
the amount of a t3 b cell .
the pilosity of a post - anal tail .
the morphology of a vibrissa follicle .
the morphology of a inner limiting layer of retina .
the morphology of a outer limiting layer of retina .
the morphology of a spleen perifollicular zone .
the amount of a lactation .
the amount of a cortex of thymus .
the morphology of a malleus processus brevis .
the morphology of a malleus head .
the morphology of a malleus neck .
the size of a malleus neck .
the structure of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch artery 1 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch artery 2 .
the functionality of a lymphatic part of lymphoid system .
the morphology of a throat .
the morphology of a glycinergic neuron .
the morphology of a bergmann glial cell .
the displaced of a pharyngeal arch .
the amount of a interatrial septum .
the morphology of a outflow part of right ventricle .
the morphology of a outflow part of left ventricle .
the amount of a interventricular septum .
the morphology of a coronary sinus .
the amount of a coronary sinus .
the structure of a pulmonary vein .
the morphology of a hepatic vein .
the structure of a outflow part of left ventricle .
the structure of a outflow part of right ventricle .
the morphology of a cardiac vein .
the size of a pulmonary trunk .
the occurrence of a pulmonary artery .
the structure of a ascending aorta .
the size of a descending aorta .
the morphology of a sinus of valsalva .
the size of a pharyngeal arch artery .
the amount of a right subclavian artery .
the morphology of a right subclavian artery .
the morphology of a left subclavian artery .
the morphology of a valve of inferior vena cava .
the morphology of a coronary sinus valve .
the morphology of a endocardium of atrium .
the morphology of a myocardium of atrium .
the morphology of a endocardium of ventricle .
the morphology of a crista terminalis .
the morphology of a pectinate muscle .
the morphology of a vena cava sinus .
the morphology of a interventricular septum muscular part .
the morphology of a myocardium of ventricle .
the size of a myocardium .
the size of a myocardium of ventricle .
the morphology of a bachmann's bundle .
the size of a atrioventricular node .
the size of a right ventricle myocardium .
the closure of a aorta .
the morphology of a heart layer .
the morphology of a subendocardium layer .
the morphology of a mesocardium .
the morphology of a dorsal mesocardium .
the amount of a dorsal mesocardium .
the morphology of a coronary vessel .
the amount of a epicardium .
the size of a compact layer of ventricle .
the size of a sinus venosus .
the amount of a coronary vessel .
the amount of a sinus venosus .
the morphology of a ductus arteriosus .
the amount of a ductus arteriosus .
the morphology of a left branch of atrioventricular bundle .
the morphology of a right branch of atrioventricular bundle .
the morphology of a bulbus cordis .
the morphology of a atrium myocardial trabecula .
the morphology of a conotruncus .
the morphology of a conotruncal ridge .
the amount of a conotruncal ridge .
the size of a conotruncal ridge .
the size of a aortic valve .
the morphology of a atrioventricular septum .
the size of a aortic valve leaflet .
the morphology of a aortic valve cusp .
the amount of a aortic valve cusp .
the morphology of a aortic valve anulus .
the size of a pulmonary valve .
the morphology of a pulmonary valve cusp .
the amount of a pulmonary valve cusp .
the size of a pulmonary valve leaflets .
the morphology of a pulmonary valve anulus .
the morphology of a chorda tendineae .
the amount of a chorda tendineae .
the morphology of a mitral valve anulus .
the morphology of a mitral valve cusp .
the amount of a mitral valve cusp .
the size of a mitral valve leaflet .
the size of a mitral valve .
the morphology of a tricuspid valve anulus .
the morphology of a tricuspid valve cusp .
the sharpness of a tricuspid valve .
the amount of a tricuspid valve cusp .
the size of a tricuspid valve leaflet .
the size of a tricuspid valve .
the morphology of a cardiac muscle tissue of myocardium .
the amount of a intercalated disc .
the structure of a descending aorta .
the amount of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
the amount of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
the amount of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
the amount of a pulmonary vein .
the morphology of a aortico - pulmonary spiral septum .
the amount of a aortico - pulmonary spiral septum .
the amount of a cardiac jelly .
the amount of a pulmonary trunk .
the morphology of a intersomitic artery .
the morphology of a brachiocephalic artery .
the morphology of a vitelline artery .
the morphology of a vitelline vein .
the morphology of a umbilical vein .
the morphology of a hepatic portal vein .
the morphology of a tc17 cell .
the rate of a activation - induced cell death of t cells .
the morphology of a integumentary adnexa .
the morphology of a arrector muscle of hair .
the functionality of a integumentary adnexa .
the morphology of a bulb of hair follicle .
the morphology of a infundibulum of hair follicle .
the size of a infundibulum of hair follicle .
the morphology of a hair outer root sheath .
the morphology of a hair inner root sheath .
the morphology of a hair follicle matrix region .
the amount of a dermal papilla .
the morphology of a hair follicle isthmus .
the branchiness of a vertebral bone 1 .
the branchiness of a vertebral bone 2 .
the morphology of a optic canal .
the amount of a metoptic pilar .
the spatial pattern of a lens of camera - type eye .
the amount of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
the amount of a sclera .
the amount of a nasolacrimal duct .
the amount of a sublingual duct .
the length of a sublingual duct .
the size of a interventricular septum .
the amount of a cervical vertebra 1 arcus anterior .
the amount of a odontoid process of cervical vertebra 2 .
the amount of a cervical vertebra 1 anterior tubercle .
the morphology of a node of ranvier .
the morphology of a axon initial segment .
the morphology of a paranode region of axon .
the morphology of a extraembryonic ectoderm .
the morphology of a juxtaparanode region of axon .
the morphology of a internode region of axon .
the morphology of a axolemma .
the amount of a schwann cell .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a cervical flexure .
the morphology of a pre - botzinger complex .
the functionality of a pre - botzinger complex .
the morphology of a tooth enamel organ .
the functionality of a hematopoietic stem cell .
the occurrence of a granulocyte chemotaxis .
the deviation ( from_normal )  of a life span .
the morphology of a manual digit 1 .
the morphology of a lymph node follicular corona .
the morphology of a radiale .
the morphology of a placenta metrial gland .
the amount of a placenta metrial gland .
the morphology of a fundus of stomach .
the morphology of a stomach muscularis externa .
the morphology of a stomach smooth muscle circular layer .
the morphology of a wall of stomach .
the morphology of a murine forestomach .
the morphology of a pylorus .
the size of a fundus of stomach .
the morphology of a mesentery of stomach .
the morphology of a pyloric antrum .
the morphology of a pyloric canal .
the morphology of a serosa of stomach .
the morphology of a submucosa of stomach .
the morphology of a cardiac gastric gland .
the morphology of a intermediate gastric gland .
the morphology of a pyloric gastric gland .
the morphology of a cardia of stomach .
the size of a mucosa of stomach .
the morphology of a submucous nerve plexus .
the morphology of a myenteric nerve plexus .
the morphology of a intestinal enteroendocrine cell .
the morphology of a stomach enteroendocrine cell .
the morphology of a stomach smooth muscle inner oblique layer .
the morphology of a stomach smooth muscle outer longitudinal layer .
the morphology of a muscularis mucosae of stomach .
the position of a stomach .
the morphology of a clara cell .
the amount of a type ii pneumocyte .
the morphology of a alveolar lamellar body .
the amount of a type i pneumocyte .
the morphology of a pleura .
the morphology of a visceral pleura .
the morphology of a parietal pleura .
the amount of a right lung accessory lobe .
the morphology of a lung saccule .
the amount of a lung saccule .
the size of a lung saccule .
the morphology of a bronchioalveolar stem cell .
the amount of a bronchioalveolar stem cell .
the morphology of a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell .
the amount of a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell .
the morphology of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell .
the amount of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell .
the morphology of a central memory cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the amount of a central memory cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the morphology of a effector memory cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the amount of a effector memory cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the morphology of a central memory cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the amount of a central memory cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the morphology of a effector memory cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the amount of a effector memory cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the morphology of a anterior commissure anterior part .
the morphology of a posterior part of anterior commissure .
the amount of a respiratory goblet cell .
the morphology of a enamel knot .
the amount of a trabecular network of bone .
the mass of a trabecular bone tissue .
the amount of a trachea .
the amount of a minor salivary gland .
the color saturation of a lung .
the amount of a alveolar lamellar body .
the morphology of a posterior commissure .
the morphology of a epithelium of bronchiole .
the morphology of a pulmonary alveolus epithelium .
the morphology of a alveolar system .
the morphology of a interalveolar septum .
the morphology of a pulmonary alveolar parenchyma .
the morphology of a alveolar sac .
the morphology of a alveolar wall .
the morphology of a alveolar pore .
the amount of a alveolar pore .
the morphology of a lung bud .
the amount of a lung bud .
the size of a epithelium of bronchiole .
the morphology of a pulmonary acinus .
the position of a liver .
the morphology of a neuroendocrine cell .
the morphology of a feyrter cell .
the amount of a feyrter cell .
the morphology of a pulmonary neuroendocrine body .
the amount of a pulmonary neuroendocrine body .
the composition of a alveolus of lung .
the morphology of a osteoid .
the size of a osteoid .
the morphology of a mandibular prominence .
the morphology of a maxillary prominence .
the morphology of a foramen magnum .
the morphology of a respiratory tract epithelium .
the morphology of a epithelium of bronchus .
the size of a respiratory tract epithelium .
the size of a lung epithelium .
the amount of a clara cell .
the mass of a compact bone tissue .
the amount of a compact bone tissue .
the morphology of a periosteum .
the amount of a periosteum .
the size of a periosteum .
the morphology of a lobe of lung .
the size of a lobe of lung .
the amount of a ureteric bud .
the size of a ureteric bud .
the displaced of a ureteric bud .
the morphology of a metanephric mesenchyme .
the morphology of a kidney mesenchyme .
the morphology of a mesonephric mesenchyme .
the morphology of a cartilage of bronchus .
the size of a aorta wall .
the morphology of a stem cell of epidermis .
the functionality of a stem cell of epidermis .
the occurrence of a lung lobe morphogenesis .
the elasticity of a lung .
the morphology of a kinocilium .
the rate of a macrophage cytokine production .
the rate of a macrophage apoptotic process .
the morphology of a respiratory basal cell .
the amount of a respiratory basal cell .
the amount of a reichert's membrane .
the amount of a primordial ovarian follicle .
the amount of a primary ovarian follicle .
the amount of a tertiary ovarian follicle .
the amount of a secondary ovarian follicle .
the functionality of a lung endothelial cell .
the size of a lung mesenchyme .
the amount of a lung mesenchyme .
the rate of a mesenchymal cell proliferation involved in lung development .
the morphology of a hippocampus stratum lacunosum .
the morphology of a hippocampus stratum oriens .
the morphology of a hippocampus stratum radiatum .
the size of a hippocampus molecular layer .
the size of a hippocampus stratum oriens .
the size of a hippocampus stratum radiatum .
the amount of a hippocampus stratum oriens .
the morphology of a subcutaneous adipose tissue .
the morphology of a hypodermis skeletal muscle layer .
the amount of a hypodermis skeletal muscle layer .
the morphology of a epidermal - dermal junction .
the amount of a root of molar tooth .
the morphology of a otic pit .
the morphology of a otic placode .
the curvature of a vertebra .
the amount of a hematopoietic cell .
the morphology of a inner cell mass derived hypoblast .
the amount of a inner cell mass derived epiblast .
the amount of a pigmented ciliary epithelial cell .
the morphology of a parietal endoderm .
the size of a inner cell mass derived epiblast .
the functionality of a hair follicle .
the morphology of a proamniotic cavity .
the amount of a proamniotic cavity .
the morphology of a amniotic cavity .
the morphology of a extraembryonic coelomic cavity .
the morphology of a visceral yolk sac cavity .
the morphology of a ectoplacental cavity .
the morphology of a parietal yolk sac .
the morphology of a yolk sac blood island .
the surface feature shape of a visceral yolk sac .
the amount of a visceral yolk sac .
the amount of a ectoplacental cavity .
the size of a proamniotic cavity .
the amount of a extraembryonic coelomic cavity .
the morphology of a temporomandibular joint .
the morphology of a common fibular nerve .
the amount of a common fibular nerve .
the morphology of a lymph node medullary sinus .
the size of a lymph node medullary sinus .
the morphology of a lymph node medullary cord .
the size of a lymph node medullary cord .
the morphology of a fetal derived definitive erythrocyte .
the amount of a fetal derived definitive erythrocyte .
the functionality of a fetal derived definitive erythrocyte .
the morphology of a fetal liver hematopoietic progenitor cell .
the morphology of a yolk sac hematopoietic stem cell .
the morphology of a neural fold .
the morphology of a head fold of embryonic disc .
the morphology of a tail fold of embryonic disc .
the morphology of a cephalic neural fold .
the morphology of a head mesenchyme .
the morphology of a limb mesenchyme .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch mesenchymal region .
the morphology of a spleen primordium .
the morphology of a cardiac mesenchyme .
the morphology of a pancreas mesenchyme .
the morphology of a mesenchyme of fronto - nasal process .
the amount of a nephron .
the size of a nephron .
the morphology of a macula densa .
the morphology of a kidney granular cell .
the morphology of a extraglomerular mesangial cell .
the amount of a renal papilla .
the size of a renal papilla .
the size of a kidney calyx .
the amount of a renal pelvis .
the morphology of a kidney arterial blood vessel .
the morphology of a kidney capillary .
the morphology of a renal venous blood vessel .
the morphology of a renal afferent arteriole .
the morphology of a renal efferent arteriole .
the morphology of a renal cortex artery .
the morphology of a kidney arcuate artery .
the morphology of a interlobular artery .
the morphology of a right renal artery .
the morphology of a left renal artery .
the morphology of a peritubular capillary .
the morphology of a renal cortex vein .
the morphology of a renal vein .
the morphology of a vasa recta .
the morphology of a kidney arcuate vein .
the morphology of a renal interlobular vein .
the morphology of a left renal vein .
the morphology of a right renal vein .
the morphology of a inner renal medulla vasa recta .
the morphology of a outer renal medulla vasa recta .
the morphology of a papillary duct .
the morphology of a outer medulla of kidney .
the morphology of a inner medulla of kidney .
the morphology of a nephrogenic zone .
the morphology of a kidney pelvis smooth muscle .
the morphology of a kidney pelvis urothelium .
the morphology of a perihilar interstitium .
the morphology of a glomerular mesangium .
the morphology of a extraglomerular mesangium .
the morphology of a descending limb of loop of henle .
the morphology of a ascending limb of loop of henle .
the morphology of a loop of henle ascending limb thin segment .
the morphology of a thick ascending limb of loop of henle .
the shape of a loop of henle .
the morphology of a medullary ray .
the morphology of a glomerular basement membrane .
the size of a mesangial matrix .
the amount of a glomerular tuft .
the morphology of a interlobar artery .
the amount of a renal artery .
the morphology of a metanephros .
the amount of a metanephros .
the morphology of a kidney corticomedullary boundary .
the morphology of a kidney outer medulla inner stripe .
the morphology of a kidney outer medulla outer stripe .
the morphology of a renal lobe .
the morphology of a renal lobule .
the morphology of a kidney capsule .
the amount of a metanephric mesenchyme .
the amount of a heart .
the amount of a optic disc .
the functionality of a fetal cardiomyocyte .
the pressure of a endoneurial fluid .
the morphology of a retrotrapezoid nucleus .
the amount of a nephrogenic zone .
the morphology of a gonadal ridge .
the size of a gonadal ridge .
the color pattern of a urine .
the morphology of a leydig cell region of testis .
the morphology of a kidney interstitium .
the morphology of a ureter smooth muscle .
the size of a mesangial cell .
the amount of a mesangial cell .
the degeneration of a mesangial cell .
the amount of a renal medulla .
the amount of a dopaminergic neuron .
the displaced of a dopaminergic neuron .
the morphology of a glomerular capillary endothelium .
the morphology of a glomerular endothelium fenestra .
the amount of a glomerular endothelium fenestra .
the occurrence of a ureteric peristalsis .
the morphology of a urothelium of ureter .
the morphology of a urethra urothelium .
the displaced of a ureter .
the morphology of a ureteropelvic junction .
the morphology of a ureterovesical junction .
the closure of a ureteropelvic junction .
the structure of a ureteropelvic junction .
the amount of a ureter .
the morphology of a visceral layer of glomerular capsule .
the morphology of a glomerular parietal epithelium .
the morphology of a bowman's space .
the size of a jejunum .
the morphology of a limb long bone .
the shape of a limb long bone .
the size of a glomerular capillary .
the morphology of a vertebral artery .
the morphology of a placental labyrinth villous .
the morphology of a placenta intervillous maternal lacunae .
the morphology of a placenta fetal blood space .
the organization quality of a placenta labyrinth .
the size of a placenta intervillous maternal lacunae .
the morphology of a syncytiotrophoblast cell .
the morphology of a azygos vein .
the size of a valve of inferior vena cava .
the morphology of a bulb of aorta .
the morphology of a sinotubular junction .
the size of a sinotubular junction .
the size of a bulb of aorta .
the amount of a vertebral bone 1 .
the rate of a lipoprotein lipase activity .
the rate of a triglyceride lipase activity .
the rate of a alkaline phosphatase activity .
the rate of a ornithine carbamoyltransferase activity .
the rate of a purine - nucleoside phosphorylase activity .
the rate of a phosphatidylcholine - sterol o - acyltransferase activity .
the rate of a glutathione peroxidase activity .
the rate of a glucokinase activity .
the rate of a glyceraldehyde - 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase  ( nad +  )   ( phosphorylating )  activity .
the rate of a aging .
the size of a mitochondrion .
the morphology of a mitochondrial inner membrane .
the morphology of a mitochondrial crista .
the organization quality of a mitochondrial crista .
the morphology of a mitochondrial matrix .
the morphology of a mitochondrial chromosome .
the morphology of a aorta collagen fibril .
the morphology of a pulmonary collagen fibril .
the morphology of a tendon collagen fibril .
the morphology of a sinoatrial valve .
the amount of a sinoatrial valve .
the morphology of a corneal stroma collagen fibril .
the morphology of a systemic artery .
the functionality of a olfactory receptor cell .
the functionality of a vomeronasal sensory neuron .
the morphology of a vomeronasal sensory neuron .
the structure of a cardiac atrium .
the amount of a posterior vena cava .
the morphology of a limb paddle .
the amount of a stem cell of epidermis .
the amount of a bronchioalveolar stem cells .
the structure of a lens of camera - type eye .
the functionality of a brown adipose tissue .
the rate of a ovarian cumulus expansion .
the occurrence of a ovarian cumulus expansion .
the rate of a fibroblast proliferation .
the amount of a fibroblast proliferation .
the occurrence of a fibroblast migration .
the rate of a fibroblast migration .
the rate of a osteoblast differentiation .
the amount of a osteoblast differentiation .
the rate of a interleukin - 8 secretion .
the displaced of a neuron .
the displaced of a neuron of cerebral cortex .
the displaced of a cajal - retzius cell .
the displaced of a female gonad .
the size of a myelin sheath .
the morphology of a boettcher cell .
the morphology of a seminiferous tubule epithelium .
the morphology of a kidney collecting duct intercalated cell .
the morphology of a kidney collecting duct principal cell .
the amount of a rathke's pouch .
the morphology of a ureteric bud tip .
the morphology of a ureteric bud trunk .
the morphology of a mucosa of urinary bladder .
the morphology of a trigone of urinary bladder .
the morphology of a undifferentiated genital tubercle .
the size of a undifferentiated genital tubercle .
the morphology of a urinary bladder vasculature .
the morphology of a urinary bladder detrusor smooth muscle .
the structure of a rectum .
the morphology of a male urethra .
the morphology of a prostatic urethra .
the morphology of a male membranous urethra .
the morphology of a spongiose part of urethra .
the morphology of a female urethra .
the functionality of a bulbo - urethral gland .
the morphology of a internal urethral orifice .
the morphology of a ureteral orifice .
the morphology of a neck of urinary bladder .
the morphology of a fundus of urinary bladder .
the morphology of a major vestibular gland .
the amount of a urethra .
the morphology of a urethral gland .
the morphology of a paraurethral gland .
the morphology of a male urethral gland .
the morphology of a urethral meatus .
the weight of a urinary bladder .
the rate of a cell migration .
the length of a cranium .
the morphology of a fraction a pre - pro b cell .
the rate of a type b pancreatic cell proliferation .
the rate of a cell chemotaxis .
the rate of a lymphocyte chemotaxis .
the occurrence of a neuron differentiation .
the structure of a urinary bladder .
the morphology of a cremaster muscle .
the morphology of a female preputial gland .
the morphology of a urogenital fold .
the morphology of a cloacal membrane .
the morphology of a navicular fossa of spongiose part of urethra .
the morphology of a guc ) rin's valve .
the morphology of a urethral crest .
the morphology of a male urethral crest .
the morphology of a female urethral crest .
the morphology of a kidney collecting duct epithelium .
the morphology of a vestibulum vaginae .
the morphology of a os clitoris .
the amount of a os clitoris .
the morphology of a urorectal septum .
the amount of a stomach .
the altered number of of a diaphragm .
the amount of a colon .
the rate of a hematopoietic stem cell proliferation .
the rate of a schwann cell proliferation .
the morphology of a zona intermedia of adrenal gland .
the structure of a intestine .
the rate of a macrophage proliferation .
the morphology of a septum of telencephalon .
the morphology of a septum pellucidum .
the functionality of a olfactory epithelium .
the morphology of a comma - shaped body .
the morphology of a s - shaped body .
the morphology of a morula .
the morphology of a central tendon of diaphragm .
the amount of a astrocyte .
the altered number of of a astrocyte .
the morphology of a olfactory gland .
the morphology of a globose cell of olfactory epithelium .
the morphology of a basal proper cell of olfactory epithelium .
the onset quality of a heart development .
the amount of a foregut .
the amount of a hindgut .
the amount of a trophectoderm .
the morphology of a bilaminar disc .
the onset quality of a gastrulation .
the rate of a inner cell mass cell proliferation .
the amount of a inner cell mass cell proliferation .
the rate of a trophectodermal cell proliferation .
the amount of a trophectodermal cell proliferation .
the morphology of a midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
the amount of a forebrain .
the amount of a visceral endoderm .
the amount of a anterior visceral endoderm .
the amount of a parietal endoderm .
the morphology of a lens placode .
the composition of a amniotic fluid .
the onset quality of a head development .
the morphology of a presomitic mesoderm .
the morphology of a muscle precursor cell .
the morphology of a intraembryonic coelom .
the rate of a keratinocyte migration .
the rate of a myofibroblast differentiation .
the rate of a endothelial cell proliferation .
the morphology of a neuronal stem cell .
the morphology of a hepatic diverticulum .
the morphology of a liver primordium .
the morphology of a cholangiocyte .
the morphology of a hepatoblast .
the amount of a hepatoblast .
the morphology of a hepatic cord .
the morphology of a septum transversum .
the morphology of a intersomitic vessel .
the morphology of a intersomitic vein .
the morphology of a philtrum .
the amount of a philtrum .
the size of a hindbrain .
the morphology of a red nucleus .
the morphology of a chordamesoderm .
the morphology of a cardiac mesoderm .
the morphology of a umbilical blood vessel .
the structure of a umbilical artery .
the structure of a umbilical vein .
the morphology of a carotid duct .
the morphology of a nail bed .
the size of a primary motor cortex .
the morphology of a retrosplenial granular cortex .
the size of a retrosplenial granular cortex .
the morphology of a mammillothalamic tract of hypothalamus .
the size of a mammillothalamic tract of hypothalamus .
the size of a dentate gyrus of hippocampal formation .
the size of a internal capsule of telencephalon .
the size of a hippocampus fimbria .
the size of a striatum .
the size of a genu of facial nerve .
the size of a cerebellum interpositus nucleus .
the size of a piriform cortex .
the size of a secondary somatosensory cortex .
the size of a amygdala .
the size of a habenula .
the size of a cochlear nucleus .
the size of a dentate nucleus .
the morphology of a retrosplenial region .
the morphology of a cochlear nucleus .
the amount of a pharyngeal arch artery .
the structure of a pharyngeal arch artery .
the morphology of a cardiogenic plate .
the morphology of a pericardial cavity .
the morphology of a aortic sac .
the morphology of a apex of heart .
the amount of a diencephalon .
the morphology of a duodenal gland .
the size of a duodenal gland .
the amount of a duodenal gland .
the morphology of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
the morphology of a stomodeum .
the morphology of a upper lip .
the morphology of a lower lip .
the morphology of a rhombic lip .
the morphology of a upper rhombic lip .
the morphology of a lower rhombic lip .
the morphology of a zone of polarizing activity .
the morphology of a decidua basalis .
the morphology of a decidua capsularis .
the onset quality of a limb development .
the morphology of a external ectoderm .
the morphology of a optic fissure .
the morphology of a hyaloid artery .
the morphology of a neuropore .
the morphology of a anterior neuropore .
the morphology of a posterior neuropore .
the rate of a cell death .
the rate of a peroxidase activity .
the rate of a catechol o - methyltransferase activity .
the rate of a choline o - acetyltransferase activity .
the rate of a glutamate decarboxylase activity .
the rate of a nicotinamide n - methyltransferase activity .
the rate of a acetylcholinesterase activity .
the rate of a monoamine oxidase activity .
the rate of a 5 - aminolevulinate synthase activity .
the structure of a brain ventricle .
the morphology of a pleural cavity .
the weight of a adrenal gland .
the morphology of a hemangioblast .
the amount of a hemangioblast .
the morphology of a neck .
the morphology of a uterine spiral artery .
the morphology of a somite border .
the morphology of a internal carotid artery .
the morphology of a external carotid artery .
the morphology of a polar body .
the morphology of a migratory cranial neural crest cell .
the morphology of a alpha - beta t cell .
the amount of a alpha - beta t cell .
the morphology of a rhombomere 1 .
the size of a rhombomere 1 .
the amount of a rhombomere 1 .
the morphology of a rhombomere 2 .
the size of a rhombomere 2 .
the amount of a rhombomere 2 .
the morphology of a rhombomere 3 .
the size of a rhombomere 3 .
the amount of a rhombomere 3 .
the morphology of a rhombomere 4 .
the size of a rhombomere 4 .
the amount of a rhombomere 4 .
the morphology of a rhombomere 5 .
the size of a rhombomere 5 .
the amount of a rhombomere 5 .
the morphology of a rhombomere 6 .
the size of a rhombomere 6 .
the amount of a rhombomere 6 .
the morphology of a rhombomere 7 .
the size of a rhombomere 7 .
the amount of a rhombomere 7 .
the morphology of a rhombomere 8 .
the size of a rhombomere 8 .
the amount of a rhombomere 8 .
the morphology of a migratory trunk neural crest cell .
the color of a gingiva .
the color saturation of a gingiva .
the morphology of a forelimb bud .
the amount of a forelimb bud .
the size of a forelimb bud .
the morphology of a hindlimb bud .
the amount of a hindlimb bud .
the size of a hindlimb bud .
the degeneration of a trigeminal ganglion .
the structure of a chordate pharynx .
the branchiness of a tail .
the position of a tail .
the morphology of a post - anal tail tip .
the length of a post - anal tail bud .
the amount of a placenta .
the amount of a trigeminal ganglion .
the amount of a anterior definitive endoderm .
the morphology of a basilar artery .
the size of a basilar artery .
the amount of a sebaceous gland .
the amount of a head mesenchyme .
the size of a head mesenchyme .
the morphology of a cilium .
the morphology of a primary cilium .
the morphology of a nonmotile primary cilium .
the morphology of a motile cilium .
the amount of a endoderm .
the functionality of a cilium .
the functionality of a motile cilium .
the functionality of a primary cilium .
the functionality of a nonmotile primary cilium .
the amount of a ectoderm .
the morphology of a substantia nigra pars reticulata .
the morphology of a substantia nigra pars compacta .
the morphology of a pharyngeal pouch 1 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal pouch 2 .
the amount of a pharyngeal pouch 2 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal pouch 3 .
the amount of a pharyngeal pouch 3 .
the morphology of a pharyngeal cleft .
the morphology of a pharyngeal membrane .
the morphology of a foramen cecum of tongue .
the morphology of a thyroglossal duct .
the degeneration of a female gonad .
the rate of a skeletal muscle tissue regeneration .
the rate of a cardiac muscle tissue regeneration .
the morphology of a dental pulp .
the morphology of a extracellular matrix .
the morphology of a mouth floor .
the morphology of a frenulum of tongue .
the morphology of a pharyngeal pouch 4 .
the amount of a pharyngeal pouch 4 .
the size of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
the size of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
the size of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
the amount of a t cell mediated cytotoxicity .
the onset quality of a acrosome reaction .
the displaced of a pancreas .
the functionality of a submandibular gland .
the morphology of a tela choroidea .
the morphology of a capsule of ovary .
the amount of a capsule of ovary .
the size of a female preputial gland .
the morphology of a ampullary gland .
the morphology of a female reproductive gland .
the morphology of a male reproductive gland .
the functionality of a female reproductive gland .
the functionality of a male reproductive gland .
the size of a abdominal viscera .
the morphology of a male accessory sex gland .
the morphology of a pituicyte .
the morphology of a folliculostellate cell .
the branchiness of a rathke's pouch .
the size of a rathke's pouch .
the displaced of a pituitary gland .
the morphology of a pinealocyte .
the amount of a pineal body .
the functionality of a sweat gland .
the morphology of a acinar cell of sebaceous gland .
the amount of a acinar cell of sebaceous gland .
the morphology of a perianal sebaceous gland .
the size of a perianal sebaceous gland .
the functionality of a tarsal gland .
the morphology of a palpebral conjunctiva .
the morphology of a gland of zeis .
the morphology of a bulbar conjunctiva .
the morphology of a dendritic epidermal t cell .
the amount of a dendritic epidermal t cell .
the amount of a naive thymus - derived cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the size of a harderian gland .
the functionality of a lacrimal apparatus .
the closure of a nasolacrimal duct .
the amount of a eccrine sweat gland .
the morphology of a conjunctival fornix .
the morphology of a corneo - scleral junction .
the morphology of a crypt of lieberkuhn of ileum .
the morphology of a crypt of lieberkuhn of duodenum .
the morphology of a crypt of lieberkuhn of jejunum .
the amount of a paneth cell .
the functionality of a paneth cell .
the morphology of a infundibular recess of 3rd ventricle .
the amount of a infundibular recess of 3rd ventricle .
the morphology of a submucosa of trachea .
the morphology of a trachea gland .
the amount of a trachea gland .
the closure of a trachea .
the morphology of a periderm .
the functionality of a parotid gland .
the functionality of a major salivary gland .
the functionality of a minor salivary gland .
the functionality of a sublingual gland .
the morphology of a holocrine gland .
the morphology of a merocrine gland .
the rate of a cerebellar granule cell precursor proliferation .
the morphology of a apocrine gland .
the functionality of a apocrine gland .
the functionality of a holocrine gland .
the functionality of a merocrine gland .
the morphology of a exocrine gland .
the functionality of a exocrine gland .
the morphology of a endocrine gland .
the functionality of a endocrine gland .
the morphology of a circumventricular organ .
the morphology of a secretory circumventricular organ .
the morphology of a sensory circumventricular organ .
the morphology of a adrenal gland capsule .
the size of a gastric gland .
the degeneration of a gastric gland .
the functionality of a neuroendocrine gland .
the morphology of a capsule of parathyroid gland .
the displaced of a parathyroid gland .
the morphology of a forestomach - glandular stomach junction .
the size of a murine forestomach .
the morphology of a stomach glandular region .
the morphology of a gland of nasal mucosa .
the degeneration of a gland of nasal mucosa .
the degeneration of a saliva - secreting gland .
the degeneration of a pancreas .
the size of a medulla of thymus .
the amount of a medulla of thymus .
the morphology of a acinus of parotid gland .
the amount of a vomeronasal organ .
the functionality of a vomeronasal organ .
the size of a vomeronasal organ .
the degeneration of a testis .
the morphology of a ovarian bursa .
the morphology of a ovarian fossa .
the morphology of a ovarian cortex .
the morphology of a ovarian medulla .
the morphology of a rete ovarii .
the morphology of a bile duct epithelium .
the morphology of a hematopoietic cell .
the morphology of a myeloid cell .
the morphology of a erythroid lineage cell .
the morphology of a bone marrow hematopoietic cell .
the amount of a myeloid cell .
the amount of a immature natural killer cell .
the amount of a mature natural killer cell .
the morphology of a granulocyte monocyte progenitor cell .
the amount of a granulocyte monocyte progenitor cell .
the morphology of a immature natural killer cell .
the morphology of a mature natural killer cell .
the morphology of a megakaryocyte - erythroid progenitor cell .
the amount of a megakaryocyte - erythroid progenitor cell .
the morphology of a hematopoietic precursor cell .
the amount of a hematopoietic precursor cell .
the morphology of a cervical mammary gland .
the morphology of a abdominal mammary gland .
the morphology of a inguinal mammary gland .
the morphology of a thoracic mammary gland .
the amount of a milk ejection .
the color saturation of a mammary gland .
the morphology of a mammary ridge .
the morphology of a mammary placode .
the morphology of a mammary gland cord .
the morphology of a nipple sheath .
the amount of a nipple sheath .
the morphology of a tunica albuginea of testis .
the morphology of a tunica vaginalis testis .
the morphology of a conjunctival sac .
the morphology of a margin of eyelid .
the elasticity of a trachea cartilage .
the morphology of a ocular surface region .
the rate of a intestinal phytosterol absorption .
the rate of a intestinal d - glucose absorption .
the morphology of a helper t cell .
the amount of a effector t cell .
the amount of a transverse palatine fold .
the amount of a bone marrow development .
the morphology of a mammary gland myoepithelium .
the functionality of a mammary gland myoepithelium .
the morphology of a mammary gland luminal epithelium .
the morphology of a mammary duct terminal end bud .
the morphology of a mammary bud .
the closure of a external naris .
the morphology of a small intestine goblet cell .
the morphology of a large intestine goblet cell .
the morphology of a intestinal villus goblet cell .
the morphology of a duodenal goblet cell .
the morphology of a ileal goblet cell .
the morphology of a jejunal goblet cell .
the amount of a pectinate muscle .
the amount of a brachiocephalic artery .
the size of a hepatic portal vein .
the amount of a nasal cavity .
the morphology of a oral cavity .
the morphology of a acromioclavicular joint .
the amount of a optic cup .
the morphology of a cerebral artery .
the morphology of a hypoglossal canal .
the size of a hypoglossal canal .
the amount of a hypoglossal canal .
the size of a facial nerve .
the size of a splanchnic nerve .
the position of a vagus nerve .
the curvature of a vagus nerve .
the size of a vagus nerve .
the size of a hypoglossal nerve .
the amount of a hypoglossal nerve .
the position of a hypoglossal nerve .
the structure of a ductus venosus .
the structure of a hepatic portal vein .
the position of a eye muscle .
the composition of a hypodermis .
the amount of a abducens nerve .
the amount of a posterior commissure .
the position of a mesonephric duct .
the morphology of a celiac artery .
the amount of a celiac artery .
the curvature of a celiac artery .
the morphology of a muscle of abdomen .
the position of a azygos vein .
the position of a pancreas .
the orientation of a dorsal pancreatic bud .
the morphology of a dorsal pancreatic bud .
the morphology of a ventral pancreatic bud .
the orientation of a ventral pancreatic bud .
the position of a stapedial artery .
the morphology of a jugular vein .
the morphology of a ductus venosus .
the position of a ductus venosus .
the amount of a ductus venosus .
the amount of a common lymphoid progenitor .
the morphology of a seminal vesicle epithelium .
the degeneration of a seminal vesicle epithelium .
the amount of a female preputial gland .
the functionality of a seminal vesicle .
the composition of a seminal vesicle fluid .
the morphology of a muscular coat of seminal vesicle .
the position of a endolymphatic sac .
the rate of a response to electrical stimulus .
the morphology of a plasmablast .
the amount of a plasmablast .
the morphology of a peroxisome .
the functionality of a mucous gland .
the functionality of a submucosal gland .
the morphology of a submucosal gland .
the functionality of a gut - associated lymphoid tissue .
the functionality of a acinar cell of sebaceous gland .
the morphology of a photoreceptor connecting cilium .
the displaced of a paneth cell .
the amount of a intestinal villus .
the branchiness of a intestinal villus .
the height of a intestinal villus .
the sharpness of a intestinal villus .
the shape of a intestinal villus .
the rate of a chondrocyte proliferation .
the onset quality of a chondrocyte differentiation .
the size of a ventral pancreatic bud .
the size of a dorsal pancreatic bud .
the rate of a phenylalanine decarboxylase activity .
the rate of a cholinesterase activity .
the rate of a l - tyrosine aminotransferase activity .
the rate of a procollagen - proline 4 - dioxygenase activity .
the rate of a thiopurine s - methyltransferase activity .
the rate of a tyrosine 3 - monooxygenase activity .
the thickness of a heart ventricle wall .
the thickness of a interventricular septum .
the size of a adrenal gland x zone .
the rate of a proline oxidase activity .
the degeneration of a subcutaneous adipose tissue .
the rate of a pyruvate kinase activity .
the amount of a creatine kinase complex .
the amount of a limb .
the length of a tongue muscle .
the size of a horn .
the morphology of a horn .
the amount of a horn .
the rate of a creatine kinase activity .
the rate of a hydroxymethylbilane synthase activity .
the morphology of a gastrula .
the morphology of a gustatory gland .
the morphology of a nictitating membrane .
the morphology of a lacrimal sac .
the concentration of of a calcium ion when measured in cytosol .
the concentration of of a calcium ion when measured in postsynaptic cytosol .
the morphology of a bone of reproductive structure .
the shape of a bone of reproductive structure .
the width of a bone of reproductive structure .
the length of a bone of reproductive structure .
the shape of a os penis .
the width of a os penis .
the length of a os penis .
the shape of a os clitoris .
the width of a os clitoris .
the length of a os clitoris .
the macromolecular stability of a dna .
the quality of a cellular_component .
the quality of a biological_process .
the quality of a anatomical entity .
the quality of a chemical entity .
the quality of a protein .
the permeability of a blood brain barrier .
the length of a line connecting laterally paired nipples .
the length of a anatomical line between inner canthi .
the length of a anatomical line between outer ears .
the length of a anatomical line between pupils .
the length of a cilium .
the length of a dendrite .
the length of a microtubule .
the size of a mitochondrial nucleoid .
the length of a spindle .
the morphology of a golgi apparatus .
the length of a germ tube septin ring .
the morphology of a cytoskeleton .
the morphology of a endomembrane system .
the morphology of a lipid particle .
the morphology of a mating projection .
the length of a mating projection tip .
the shape of a nucleus .
the morphology of a nucleus .
the size of a cotyledon .
the quality of a subcutaneous adipose tissue .
the proportionality to of a subcutaneous adipose tissue .
the size of a breast .
the morphology of a intervertebral disk of lumbar vertebra .
the volume of a thyroid gland .
the permeability of a membrane .
the shape of a cerebellum .
the circumference of a forelimb stylopod .
the circumference of a neck .
the circumference of a hip .
the circumference of a hindlimb stylopod .
the area of a cell surface .
the opacity of a lens of camera - type eye .
the mass of a cell .
the mass of a adult organism .
the height of a mollusc shell .
the length of a mollusc shell .
the volumetric density of a secondary xylem .
the color of a cotyledonary node .
the color of a scutellar node .
the color of a shoot axis node .
the color of a iris .
the length of a philtrum .
the length of a palpebral fissure .
the length of a manus .
the length of a pes .
the length of a palmar part of manus .
the quality of a mollusc shell .
the quality of a columnella .
the quality of a gastropod albumen gland .
the quality of a headfoot .
the quality of a osphradium .
the quality of a nacre .
the quality of a gland .
the quality of a visceral hump .
the quality of a parapodium .
the quality of a prostomium .
the quality of a vestimentum muscle .
the quality of a trophosome .
the quality of a opisthosome .
the quality of a dermal bone .
the morphology of a dermal bone .
the morphology of a endochondral bone .
the quality of a endochondral bone .
the size of a epiplastron .
the mass of a epiplastron .
the size of a xiphiplastron .
the color of a coat of hair .
the color pattern of a coat of hair .
the spatial pattern of a coat of hair .
the size of a antenna .
the color of a cytosol .
the quality of a cell .
the quality of a cytosol .
the quality of a organelle .
the strength of a muscle organ .
the strength of a skeletal muscle organ .
the strength of a forelimb muscle .
the strength of a hindlimb muscle .
the length of a nucleus .
the texture of a cell surface .
the width of a nucleus .
the quality of a cell surface .
the morphology of a cell surface .
the quality of a plasma membrane .
the morphology of a plasma membrane .
the quality of a membrane .
the morphology of a membrane .
the shape of a dinoflagellate cingulum .
the shape of a dinoflagellate sulcus .
the shape of a chloroplast .
the spatial pattern of a chloroplast .
the color of a chloroplast .
the size of a chloroplast .
the width of a dinoflagellate sulcus .
the quality of a appendage .
the quality of a paired fin .
the length of a axial skeleton plus cranial skeleton .
the length of a vertebral column .
the length of a cervical region of vertebral column .
the length of a subdivision of vertebral column .
the composition of a tissue .
the composition of a skeletal tissue .
the position of a testis .
the quality of a hoof .
the degree of pigmentation of a anatomical structure .
the mass density of a bone tissue .
the size of a adrenal gland .
the size of a calcareous tooth .
the size of a incisor tooth .
the orientation of a axon terminus .
the length of a axon .
the located in of a axon .
the shape of a axon .
the amount of a dendrite .
the thickness of a dendrite .
the orientation of a axon .
the orientation of a dendrite .
the shape of a dendrite .
the size of a dendrite .
the blue of a iris .
the brown of a strand of hair .
the length of a dinoflagellate epicone .
the length of a dinoflagellate hypocone .
the color of a eyespot apparatus .
the color of a cell .
the diameter of a nucleus .
the located in of a eyespot apparatus .
the shape of a dinoflagellate sulcal notch .
the shape of a dinoflagellate apex .
the shape of a dinoflagellate antapex .
the shape of a dinoflagellate apical horn .
the shape of a dinoflagellate antapical horn .
the volume of a endolymph .
the size of a bone element .
the flexibility of a skeletal joint .
the size of a epipubic bone .
the mass density of a epipubic bone .
the size of a vesicle .
the size of a lymphatic vessel .
the permeability of a lymphatic vessel .
the quality of a lymphatic vessel .
the permeability of a endoplasmic reticulum membrane .
the quality of a subungual region .
the quality of a proximal epiphysis of tibia .
the quality of a gastrointestinal system .
the quality of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the quality of a liposaccharide metabolic process .
the quality of a pyrimidine nucleobase metabolic process .
the quality of a tryptophan metabolic process .
the quality of a ornithine metabolic process .
the quality of a fatty acid metabolic process .
the quality of a vasculature of eye .
the quality of a interatrial septum .
the quality of a manual digit 4 phalanx .
the quality of a greater sciatic notch .
the quality of a frontal process of maxilla .
the quality of a pedal digit 1 phalanx .
the quality of a sphenoidal sinus .
the quality of a philtrum .
the quality of a musculature of pharynx .
the quality of a orotic acid metabolic process .
the quality of a cerebrospinal fluid .
the quality of a glycine metabolic process .
the quality of a cerebral artery .
the quality of a cortex of kidney .
the quality of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the quality of a forelimb stylopod .
the quality of a paranasal sinus .
the quality of a risorius muscle .
the quality of a uterine cervix .
the quality of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
the quality of a celiac artery .
the quality of a ilium .
the quality of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the quality of a mast cell .
the quality of a distal epiphysis of femur .
the quality of a lateral crico - arytenoid .
the quality of a leydig cell .
the quality of a epiphysis of phalanx of manus .
the quality of a biliary tree .
the quality of a striatum .
the quality of a malleus bone .
the quality of a genital labium .
the quality of a gingiva .
the quality of a navicular bone of pes .
the quality of a distal phalanx of manus .
the quality of a pedal digit 2 .
the quality of a periosteum .
the quality of a somatic nervous system .
the quality of a glutamine family amino acid metabolic process .
the quality of a corneal endothelium .
the quality of a distal epiphysis of tibia .
the quality of a eye movement .
the quality of a vestibular nerve .
the quality of a von willebrand factor .
the quality of a facial vein .
the quality of a mitochondrial respiratory chain .
the quality of a cartilage of external ear .
the quality of a cranial ganglion .
the quality of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the quality of a synovial joint .
the quality of a dentate nucleus .
the quality of a levator veli palatini .
the quality of a middle phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the quality of a spinal cord dorsal column .
the quality of a distal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the quality of a cranial suture .
the quality of a proximal phalanx of pes .
the quality of a female reproductive system .
the quality of a palatoglossus muscle .
the quality of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
the quality of a metacarpophalangeal joint .
the quality of a depressor labii inferioris .
the quality of a nasal hair .
the quality of a agitation behavior .
the quality of a serine family amino acid metabolic process .
the quality of a epiphysis of metatarsal bone .
the quality of a mentalis muscle .
the quality of a mucopolysaccharide metabolic process .
the quality of a falx cerebri .
the quality of a fear / anxiety related behavior .
the quality of a peripheral nervous system .
the quality of a lens of camera - type eye .
the quality of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the quality of a heart left ventricle .
the quality of a artery of lower lip .
the quality of a homocysteine metabolic process .
the quality of a cellular amino acid metabolic process .
the quality of a geniohyoid muscle .
the quality of a incus bone .
the quality of a odontoid process of cervical vertebra 2 .
the quality of a glial cell .
the quality of a joint space of elbow .
the quality of a oligodendrocyte .
the quality of a strand of pubic hair .
the quality of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
the quality of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
the quality of a respiratory system .
the quality of a myeloid leukocyte .
the quality of a tonsil .
the quality of a facial nerve .
the quality of a neck blood vessel .
the quality of a polysaccharide metabolic process .
the quality of a nasalis muscle .
the quality of a basicranium .
the quality of a crus of ear .
the quality of a cardiac septum .
the quality of a jugular vein .
the quality of a strand of hair .
the quality of a metatarsal bone of digit 5 .
the quality of a dura mater .
the quality of a glutamine metabolic process .
the quality of a purine nucleobase metabolic process .
the quality of a blood circulation .
the quality of a valine metabolic process .
the quality of a odontoid tissue .
the quality of a tongue muscle .
the quality of a greater palatine artery .
the quality of a amniotic fluid .
the quality of a protein glycosylation .
the quality of a auditory ossicle .
the quality of a corneal epithelium .
the quality of a meninx of spinal cord .
the quality of a cell cycle .
the quality of a pedal digit 4 .
the quality of a ganglioside metabolic process .
the quality of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the quality of a deltopectoral crest .
the quality of a posterior cranial fossa .
the quality of a clivus of occipital bone .
the quality of a lower urinary tract .
the quality of a intrinsic muscle of tongue .
the quality of a nasal cavity .
the quality of a social inhibition .
the quality of a styloid process of ulna .
the quality of a heart right ventricle .
the quality of a ocular fundus .
the quality of a upper urinary tract .
the quality of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
the quality of a phagocyte  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
the quality of a brain ventricle .
the quality of a extrinsic muscle of tongue .
the quality of a external carotid artery .
the quality of a lacrimal sac .
the quality of a medullary cavity of long bone .
the quality of a fallopian tube .
the quality of a distal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
the quality of a vein .
the quality of a mandibular ramus .
the quality of a glycosylation .
the quality of a vestibulocochlear nerve .
the quality of a distal epiphysis of ulna .
the quality of a pedal digit 5 .
the quality of a thoracic region of vertebral column .
the quality of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
the quality of a ulna .
the quality of a head blood vessel .
the quality of a sarcosine metabolic process .
the quality of a adenohypophysis .
the quality of a proximal epiphysis of radius .
the quality of a xanthine metabolic process .
the quality of a great auricular nerve .
the quality of a pharyngeal tonsil .
the quality of a mediastinum .
the quality of a vestibulo - ocular reflex .
the quality of a clitoris .
the quality of a chromosome condensation .
the quality of a vitamin d metabolic process .
the quality of a procerus .
the quality of a pedal digit .
the quality of a arginine metabolic process .
the quality of a jugal bone .
the quality of a leucine metabolic process .
the quality of a lumbosacral nerve plexus .
the quality of a glossopharyngeal nerve .
the quality of a pulmonary part of lymphatic system .
the quality of a trigeminal nerve .
the quality of a masticatory muscle .
the quality of a divalent inorganic cation homeostasis .
the quality of a central nervous system myelination .
the quality of a distal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the quality of a humerus .
the quality of a renal pelvis .
the quality of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
the quality of a pedal digit 5 phalanx .
the quality of a adrenal cortex .
the quality of a epiphysis of fibula .
the quality of a kidney pyramid .
the quality of a zygomaticus major muscle .
the quality of a acetabular part of hip bone .
the quality of a cuspid .
the quality of a lingual nerve .
the quality of a soft palate .
the quality of a pyruvate family amino acid metabolic process .
the quality of a prepuce of penis .
the quality of a tibia .
the quality of a hindlimb joint .
the quality of a hairline .
the quality of a glycolipid metabolic process .
the quality of a labium minora .
the quality of a physiologic nystagmus .
the quality of a hip joint .
the quality of a palmar skin crease .
the quality of a aromatic amino acid family metabolic process .
the quality of a vitamin a metabolic process .
the quality of a fontanelle .
the quality of a levator labii superioris .
the quality of a mandible condylar process .
the quality of a pedal digit 2 phalanx .
the quality of a lysine metabolic process .
the quality of a lingual tonsil .
the quality of a temperature homeostasis .
the quality of a helix .
the quality of a blood coagulation ,  intrinsic pathway .
the quality of a methionine metabolic process .
the quality of a hypoglossal nerve .
the quality of a nasolabial region .
the quality of a tricarboxylic acid cycle .
the quality of a frontal sinus .
the quality of a third ventricle .
the quality of a substantia nigra .
the quality of a prostaglandin metabolic process .
the quality of a dicarboxylic acid metabolic process .
the quality of a micturition .
the quality of a behavior process .
the quality of a infraorbital artery .
the quality of a mandible coronoid process .
the quality of a suckling behavior .
the quality of a neurotransmitter metabolic process .
the quality of a internal carotid artery .
the quality of a hindlimb zeugopod .
the quality of a aggressive behavior .
the quality of a premaxilla .
the quality of a pedal digit 3 phalanx .
the quality of a cartilage of nasal septum .
the quality of a diaphysis of radius .
the quality of a astrocyte .
the quality of a middle phalanx of manus .
the quality of a cysteine metabolic process .
the quality of a anxiety - related behavior .
the quality of a iris .
the quality of a infra - orbital nerve .
the quality of a fascia .
the quality of a levator anguli oris .
the quality of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the quality of a anterior segment of eyeball .
the quality of a blood coagulation ,  extrinsic pathway .
the quality of a long - chain fatty acid metabolic process .
the quality of a lateral rectus extra - ocular muscle .
the quality of a proximal epiphysis of humerus .
the quality of a threonine metabolic process .
the quality of a pupil .
the quality of a humeroulnar joint .
the quality of a musculature of neck .
the quality of a distal epiphysis of fibula .
the quality of a irritability behavior .
the quality of a mouth mucosa .
the quality of a mastoid process of temporal bone .
the quality of a lobule of pinna .
the quality of a proteoglycan metabolic process .
the quality of a hair of head .
the quality of a metencephalon .
the quality of a social behavior .
the quality of a superior cerebellar peduncle of pons .
the quality of a glenoid fossa .
the quality of a iliac blade .
the quality of a palatopharyngeus muscle .
the quality of a diencephalon .
the quality of a metatarsal bone of digit 3 .
the quality of a umbilical blood vessel .
the quality of a dna repair .
the quality of a ischium .
the quality of a temporomandibular joint .
the quality of a t cell .
the quality of a middle phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
the quality of a inferior alveolar nerve .
the quality of a chromosome breakage .
the quality of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
the quality of a distal segment of manual digit .
the quality of a lacrimal punctum .
the quality of a jaw muscle .
the quality of a neurohypophysis .
the quality of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
the quality of a l - phenylalanine metabolic process .
the quality of a skull .
the quality of a masseter muscle .
the quality of a cochlear nerve .
the quality of a internal jugular vein .
the quality of a lateral pterygoid muscle .
the quality of a chloride ion homeostasis .
the quality of a meninx .
the quality of a molar tooth .
the quality of a lacrimal gland .
the quality of a intrahepatic bile duct .
the quality of a descemet's membrane .
the quality of a interphalangeal joint of manus .
the quality of a reproductive system .
the quality of a cerebellar peduncle .
the quality of a physical aggression behavior .
the quality of a outflow part of left ventricle .
the quality of a tibial plateaux .
the quality of a pedal digit 3 .
the quality of a plantar part of pes .
the quality of a alkaline phosphatase activity .
the quality of a talus .
the quality of a facial skeleton .
the quality of a ciliary ganglion .
the quality of a carbohydrate metabolic process .
the quality of a internal acoustic meatus .
the quality of a nasal bone .
the quality of a zinc ion homeostasis .
the quality of a corpus cavernosum .
the quality of a zygomaticus minor muscle .
the quality of a hindlimb zeugopod muscle .
the quality of a skin of body .
the quality of a vasculature of iris .
the quality of a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
the quality of a hard palate .
the quality of a arch of aorta .
the quality of a impulsive behavior .
the quality of a upper respiratory tract .
the quality of a glycosphingolipid metabolic process .
the quality of a fourth ventricle .
the quality of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
the quality of a buccinator muscle .
the quality of a radio - ulnar joint .
the quality of a nerve .
the quality of a histidine metabolic process .
the quality of a menstruation .
the quality of a lip .
the quality of a frontalis muscle belly .
the quality of a inferior alveolar artery .
the quality of a conjunctiva .
the quality of a branched - chain amino acid metabolic process .
the quality of a vertebral endplate .
the quality of a l - ascorbic acid metabolic process .
the quality of a placental membrane .
the quality of a schwann cell .
the quality of a ophthalmic artery .
the quality of a humeroradial joint .
the quality of a pulmonary vein .
the quality of a tooth root .
the quality of a palmar part of manus .
the quality of a calcium ion homeostasis .
the quality of a central retinal artery .
the quality of a corticospinal tract .
the quality of a metatarsal bone of digit 2 .
the quality of a middle phalanx of pes .
the quality of a visual pursuit .
the quality of a protein o - linked glycosylation .
the quality of a circle of willis .
the quality of a midface .
the quality of a platysma .
the quality of a tyrosine metabolic process .
the quality of a sulfur amino acid metabolic process .
the quality of a monovalent inorganic cation homeostasis .
the quality of a phalanx of pes .
the quality of a isoleucine metabolic process .
the quality of a hyoglossus muscle .
the quality of a temporalis muscle .
the quality of a renal system process .
the quality of a lymphatic part of lymphoid system .
the quality of a facial artery .
the quality of a tarsal bone .
the quality of a vasculature of retina .
the quality of a middle phalanx of manual digit 2 .
the quality of a zygomatic arch .
the quality of a ethmoid sinus .
the quality of a anterior ethmoidal artery .
the quality of a frenulum of tongue .
the quality of a vitamin k metabolic process .
the quality of a inferior rectus extraocular muscle .
the quality of a coronary sinus .
the quality of a pituitary gland .
the quality of a proline metabolic process .
the quality of a tetrapod parietal bone .
the quality of a male reproductive system .
the quality of a l - serine metabolic process .
the quality of a common bile duct .
the quality of a vena cava .
the quality of a medulla oblongata .
the quality of a middle phalanx of manual digit 3 .
the quality of a inferior thyroid vein .
the quality of a glucose homeostasis .
the quality of a ganglion .
the quality of a vertebral artery .
the quality of a ganglion of peripheral nervous system .
the quality of a styloglossus .
the quality of a labium majora .
the quality of a rib .
the quality of a sacro - iliac joint .
the quality of a cornea .
the quality of a occipitofrontalis muscle .
the quality of a magnesium ion homeostasis .
the quality of a sexual inhibition .
the quality of a dorsal nasal artery .
the quality of a lumbar region of vertebral column .
the quality of a cobalamin metabolic process .
the quality of a uvular muscle .
the quality of a voluntary movement behavior .
the quality of a female gonad .
the quality of a endometrium .
the quality of a posterior segment of eyeball .
the quality of a abducens nerve .
the quality of a strand of axillary hair .
the quality of a vitamin e metabolic process .
the quality of a substantia propria of cornea .
the quality of a diaphysis .
the quality of a protein o - linked fucosylation .
the quality of a systemic arterial system .
the quality of a middle phalanx of manual digit 5 .
the quality of a dorsum of nose .
the quality of a lingual artery .
the quality of a myelination in peripheral nervous system .
the quality of a natural killer cell .
the quality of a proximal epiphysis of fibula .
the quality of a abdominal wall .
the quality of a glabella region of bone .
the quality of a cerebral vein .
the quality of a microglial cell .
the quality of a genioglossus muscle .
the quality of a periorbital region .
the quality of a accessory xi nerve .
the quality of a distal epiphysis of humerus .
the quality of a mylohyoid muscle .
the quality of a hypopharynx .
the quality of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
the quality of a fibula .
the quality of a phosphate ion homeostasis .
the quality of a b cell .
the quality of a pedal digit 4 phalanx .
the quality of a unsaturated fatty acid metabolic process .
the quality of a digit .
the quality of a incisor tooth .
the quality of a citrulline metabolic process .
the quality of a brachial nerve plexus .
the quality of a lacrimal drainage system .
the quality of a carnitine metabolic process .
the quality of a carboxylic acid metabolic process .
the quality of a nervous system .
the quality of a superoxide metabolic process .
the quality of a cricoid cartilage .
the quality of a renal collecting system .
the quality of a laughing behavior .
the quality of a creatine metabolic process .
the quality of a epiphysis of first metatarsal bone .
the quality of a radius bone .
the quality of a neural spine .
the quality of a premolar tooth .
the quality of a xiphoid process .
the quality of a proximal epiphysis of ulna .
the quality of a aspartate family amino acid metabolic process .
the quality of a metatarsal bone of digit 1 .
the quality of a costochondral joint .
the quality of a spinocerebellar tract .
the quality of a distal epiphysis of radius .
the quality of a medial pterygoid muscle .
the quality of a neural tube closure .
the quality of a emotional behavior .
the quality of a monocarboxylic acid metabolic process .
the quality of a arachnoid mater .
the quality of a late embryo .
the quality of a inferior oblique extraocular muscle .
the quality of a eyeball of camera - type eye .
the quality of a renal absorption .
the quality of a proximal phalanx of manus .
the quality of a metatarsal bone of digit 4 .
the quality of a voluntary skeletal muscle contraction .
the quality of a cervical plexus .
the quality of a abdomen musculature .
the quality of a orbit of skull .
the quality of a alanine metabolic process .
the quality of a hematopoietic system .
the quality of a occipital bone .
the quality of a protein n - linked glycosylation .
the quality of a placenta .
the quality of a femur .
the quality of a lacrimal artery .
the quality of a thoracic cavity .
the quality of a sperm ejaculation .
the quality of a abdomen .
the quality of a umbilical cord .
the quality of a ocular angle artery .
the quality of a distal phalanx of pes .
the quality of a hypothalamus - pituitary axis .
the quality of a cation homeostasis .
the quality of a maxillary sinus .
the quality of a phalanx of manus .
the quality of a heme biosynthetic process .
the quality of a lung lobe formation .
the quality of a liver .
the quality of a orbicularis oris muscle .
the quality of a levator palpebrae superioris .
the quality of a somatic nerve plexus .
the quality of a interventricular septum .
the quality of a dorsal thalamus .
the quality of a blood coagulation ,  common pathway .
the quality of a intestinal absorption .
the quality of a cementum .
the quality of a gluteal muscle .
the quality of a depressor anguli oris muscle .
the quality of a cervical vertebra 1 anterior tubercle .
the quality of a associative learning behavior .
the quality of a chemical nociceptive behavior .
the quality of a anagen .
the quality of a catalase activity .
the quality of a type iv hypersensitivity .
the quality of a spatial working memory .
the quality of a xiphoid cartilage .
the quality of a saccharin consumption .
the quality of a ornithine carbamoyltransferase activity .
the quality of a social grooming .
the quality of a response to novel object .
the quality of a cholinesterase activity .
the quality of a molecular layer of cerebellar cortex .
the quality of a trunk or cervical vertebra .
the quality of a choroidal blood vessel .
the quality of a tyrosine 3 - monooxygenase activity .
the quality of a mesangial cell .
the quality of a barbering behavior .
the quality of a strand of auchene hair .
the quality of a tongue taste bud .
the quality of a creatine kinase activity .
the quality of a behavioral response to light .
the quality of a branching involved in ureteric bud morphogenesis .
the quality of a intramembranous ossification .
the quality of a lymph node secondary follicle .
the quality of a melanosome transport .
the quality of a neuromuscular process controlling balance .
the quality of a strand of awl hair .
the quality of a transverse process of vertebra .
the quality of a uterine gland development .
the quality of a bony labyrinth .
the quality of a body part movement .
the quality of a cocaine consumption .
the quality of a hormone - sensitive lipase activity .
the quality of a head bobbing .
the quality of a hippocampus granule cell layer .
the quality of a development of secondary sexual characteristics .
the quality of a locomotory behavior .
the quality of a conditioned taste aversion .
the quality of a vitreous body .
the quality of a maternal nurturing behavior .
the quality of a type iii hypersensitivity .
the quality of a aldehyde oxidase activity .
the quality of a food consumption .
the quality of a circadian rhythm .
the quality of a procollagen - proline 4 - dioxygenase activity .
the quality of a mechanical nociceptive behavior .
the quality of a venous sinus .
the quality of a synchondrosis .
the quality of a paraxial mesoderm formation .
the quality of a vestibular labyrinth .
the quality of a splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
the quality of a interphalangeal joint .
the quality of a renal system development .
the quality of a z disc .
the quality of a tarsal gland development .
the quality of a purine - nucleoside phosphorylase activity .
the quality of a external acoustic meatus .
the quality of a energy homeostasis .
the quality of a hydroxymethylbilane synthase activity .
the quality of a coping behavior .
the quality of a clutching reflex .
the quality of a fibrinolysis .
the quality of a trabecula of lymph node .
the quality of a chemically - elicited antinociceptive behavior .
the quality of a locomotor activation behavior .
the quality of a cutaneous sensation behavior .
the quality of a peroxidase activity .
the quality of a lens induction in camera - type eye .
the quality of a 5 - aminolevulinate synthase activity .
the quality of a behavioral response to addictive substance .
the quality of a optokinetic reflex .
the quality of a female meiotic division .
the quality of a innervation .
the quality of a catagen .
the quality of a gamete .
the quality of a olfactory learning behavior .
the quality of a behavioral response to xenobiotics .
the quality of a efferent duct .
the quality of a head movement .
the quality of a multicellular organismal movement .
the quality of a pyruvate kinase activity .
the quality of a long term object recognition memory .
the quality of a cortex of lymph node .
the quality of a nest building behavior .
the quality of a glucokinase activity .
the quality of a response to novel environment .
the quality of a male meiosis .
the quality of a head shaking .
the quality of a lymph node t cell domain .
the quality of a pinna reflex .
the quality of a fornix of brain .
the quality of a mating receptivity .
the quality of a pharyngotympanic tube .
the quality of a reflexive behavior .
the quality of a nitric oxide homeostasis .
the quality of a response to light stimulus .
the quality of a glutamate decarboxylase activity .
the quality of a umbilical artery .
the quality of a nociceptive behavior .
the quality of a maternal grooming .
the quality of a feeding behavior .
the quality of a foliate papilla .
the quality of a keratinocyte apoptotic process .
the quality of a wound healing .
the quality of a proestrus .
the quality of a maternal behavior .
the quality of a basilar membrane of cochlea .
the quality of a zona pellucida .
the quality of a endochondral ossification .
the quality of a posture .
the quality of a rathke's pouch .
the quality of a inferior olivary complex .
the quality of a submissive behavior towards male mice .
the quality of a gastric gland .
the quality of a neuronal ion channel clustering .
the quality of a photoreceptor outer segment .
the quality of a bone marrow cell .
the quality of a circadian regulation of systemic arterial blood pressure .
the quality of a catechol o - methyltransferase activity .
the quality of a depression behavior .
the quality of a active avoidance learning behavior .
the quality of a diestrus .
the quality of a palmitoyl -  ( protein )  hydrolase activity .
the quality of a mutlidirectional head movement .
the quality of a post - anal tail morphogenesis .
the quality of a corneocyte desquamation .
the quality of a vestibulocollic reflex .
the quality of a motor coordination .
the quality of a choline o - acetyltransferase activity .
the quality of a hair medulla .
the quality of a epididymal fat pad .
the quality of a discrimination learning .
the quality of a posterior semicircular canal .
the quality of a axo - dendritic transport .
the quality of a otolith organ .
the quality of a purkinje cell layer of cerebellar cortex .
the quality of a limb posture .
the quality of a postzygapophysis .
the quality of a long - term spatial memory .
the quality of a lymph node primary follicle .
the quality of a cued conditioning behavior .
the quality of a glyceraldehyde - 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase  ( nad +  )   ( phosphorylating )  activity .
the quality of a sciatic nerve .
the quality of a parental behavior .
the quality of a vitelline vasculature .
the quality of a pupillary light reflex .
the quality of a penile erection .
the quality of a somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
the quality of a cloaca development .
the quality of a glutathione peroxidase activity .
the quality of a blood vessel elastic tissue .
the quality of a behavioral response to anesthetic .
the quality of a thiopurine s - methyltransferase activity .
the quality of a vallate papilla .
the quality of a anterior semicircular canal .
the quality of a grooming behavior .
the quality of a spatial learning .
the quality of a respiratory gaseous exchange .
the quality of a myeloblast .
the quality of a milk ejection .
the quality of a midbrain cerebral aqueduct .
the quality of a mating behavior .
the quality of a superior colliculus .
the quality of a monoamine oxidase activity .
the quality of a dermal papilla .
the quality of a strand of zigzag hair .
the quality of a nephron morphogenesis .
the quality of a subarachnoid space development .
the quality of a neuron fate specification .
the quality of a conditioned place preference behavior .
the quality of a kidney blood vessel .
the quality of a corneal reflex .
the quality of a neural fold elevation formation .
the quality of a resting posture .
the quality of a lymph node b cell domain .
the quality of a type i hypersensitivity .
the quality of a granular layer of cerebellar cortex .
the quality of a ovulation from ovarian follicle .
the quality of a cervical sinus of his .
the quality of a cerebellum formation .
the quality of a neural fold formation .
the quality of a thyroid hormone secreting cell .
the quality of a eye blink conditioning behavior .
the quality of a otolithic part of statoconial membrane .
the quality of a primary palate .
the quality of a axial mesoderm formation .
the quality of a parathyroid gland development .
the quality of a lateral semicircular canal .
the quality of a medulla of lymph node .
the quality of a righting reflex .
the quality of a thermal nociceptive behavior .
the quality of a vibrissae reflex .
the quality of a alcohol consumption .
the quality of a type ii hypersensitivity .
the quality of a membranous labyrinth .
the quality of a skeletal system development .
the quality of a glomerular visceral epithelial cell .
the quality of a avoidance learning behavior .
the quality of a gas homeostasis .
the quality of a l - tyrosine aminotransferase activity .
the quality of a nephrogenic mesenchyme morphogenesis .
the quality of a lipoprotein lipase activity .
the quality of a nipple sheath formation .
the quality of a stria vascularis of cochlear duct .
the quality of a parafollicular cell .
the quality of a primary sex determination .
the quality of a renal filtration .
the quality of a auditory receptor cell development .
the quality of a short term spatial memory .
the quality of a proline oxidase activity .
the quality of a spatial memory .
the quality of a brood size .
the quality of a meiotic spindle assembly checkpoint .
the quality of a contextual conditioning behavior .
the quality of a visual object recognition .
the quality of a caecum development .
the quality of a optic vesicle formation .
the quality of a huddling behavior .
the quality of a blood cell .
the quality of a cortex of hair .
the quality of a metestrus .
the quality of a gait .
the quality of a vocalization behavior .
the quality of a postural reflex .
the quality of a leydig cell differentiation .
the quality of a glial cell  ( sensu vertebrata )  .
the quality of a passive avoidance learning behavior .
the quality of a substantia propria of cornea development .
the quality of a perilymph .
the quality of a alveolar process of maxilla .
the quality of a papilla of tongue .
the quality of a operant conditioning behavior .
the quality of a mesangial matrix .
the quality of a strand of duvet hair .
the quality of a m band .
the quality of a synaptonemal complex .
the quality of a galactose homeostasis .
the quality of a involuntary movement behavior .
the quality of a dn2 thymocyte .
the quality of a vestibular aqueduct .
the quality of a glomerular filtration .
the quality of a urothelium .
the quality of a motor learning .
the quality of a novelty response behavior .
the quality of a thermoception .
the quality of a pilomotor reflex .
the quality of a nicotinamide n - methyltransferase activity .
the quality of a short - term memory .
the quality of a harderian gland development .
the quality of a inferior colliculus .
the quality of a phenylalanine decarboxylase activity .
the quality of a mammary gland branching involved in pregnancy .
the quality of a bone resorption .
the quality of a trachea development .
the quality of a ovarian cumulus expansion .
the quality of a hetero - barbering .
the quality of a phosphatidylcholine - sterol o - acyltransferase activity .
the quality of a sleeping behavior .
the quality of a ureteric bud invasion .
the quality of a melanin biosynthetic process .
the quality of a papillary layer of dermis .
the quality of a triglyceride lipase activity .
the quality of a estrus .
the quality of a fungiform papilla .
the quality of a circadian temperature homeostasis .
the quality of a vasculogenesis .
the quality of a hippocampus fimbria .
the quality of a lacrimal gland development .
the quality of a mandibular symphysis .
the quality of a photoreceptor inner segment .
the quality of a startle reflex .
the quality of a chewing .
the quality of a ureteric bud elongation .
the quality of a filiform papilla .
the quality of a granule cell .
the quality of a offspring retrieval .
the quality of a tail movement .
the quality of a angiogenesis involved in wound healing .
the quality of a acetylcholinesterase activity .
the quality of a ovarian follicle .
the quality of a social investigation .
the quality of a optic disc .
the quality of a juxtaglomerular apparatus .
the quality of a sensory perception of sound .
the quality of a cuticle of hair .
the quality of a short term object recognition memory .
the quality of a strand of guard hair .
the quality of a response to novel odor .
the quality of a cloacal septation .
the quality of a fear - related behavior .
the quality of a touch related behavior .
the quality of a otic vesicle formation .
the amount of a monoatomic ion .
the amount of a insulin .
the amount of a alpha - fetoprotein .
the amount of a copper ( 0 )  .
the amount of a neopterins .
the amount of a biopterins .
the amount of a iron cation .
the amount of a nitrogen molecular entity .
the amount of a potassium ( 1 +  )  .
the amount of a sodium ( 1 +  )  .
the amount of a sulfoglycosphingolipid .
the amount of a ceramide .
the amount of a prolactin .
the amount of a bradykinin .
the amount of a proline .
the amount of a vitamin e .
the amount of a somatostatin .
the amount of a carbon dioxide .
the amount of a adrenaline .
the amount of a chloride .
the amount of a 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine .
the amount of a ether lipid .
the amount of a biopterin .
the amount of a prostaglandin .
the amount of a testosterone .
the amount of a sphingolipid .
the amount of a glycerin .
the amount of a adiponectin .
the amount of a vitamin d .
the amount of a insulin - like growth factor i .
the amount of a sphingosine .
the amount of a glycosaminoglycan .
the amount of a thyroid hormone .
the amount of a sterol .
the amount of a acidic glycosphingolipid .
the amount of a l - ascorbic acid .
the amount of a fat - soluble vitamin .
the amount of a serotonin .
the amount of a tgf - beta .
the amount of a radial glial cell .
the amount of a leukotriene .
the amount of a oxygen .
the amount of a vitamin .
the amount of a thyroid stimulating hormone .
the amount of a catecholamine .
the amount of a noradrenaline .
the amount of a thiamine .
the amount of a glycosphingolipid .
the amount of a corticotropin .
the amount of a apolipoprotein .
the amount of a aldosterone .
the amount of a thromboxane .
the amount of a follicle stimulating hormone .
the amount of a neurotransmitter .
the amount of a progesterone .
the amount of a retinol .
the amount of a vitamin a .
the amount of a sulfolipid .
the amount of a bile salt .
the amount of a corticosterone .
the amount of a erythropoietin .
the amount of a amino acid .
the amount of a primate - type serum amyloid a - 2 protein .
the amount of a galactolipid .
the amount of a growth hormone .
the amount of a creatine .
the amount of a glutamate decarboxylase 1 .
the amount of a glutathione .
the amount of a phytosterols .
the amount of a luteinizing hormone .
the amount of a thyroxine .
the amount of a phospholipid .
the amount of a neopterin .
the amount of a tumor necrosis factor alpha .
the amount of a sphingomyelin .
the amount of a folic acid .
the amount of a protein .
the amount of a lipoprotein .
the mass of a multicellular organism .
the mass of a vagina .
the weight of a heart .
the mass of a omental fat pad .
the mass of a late embryo .
the mass of a extensor digitorum longus .
the weight of a lung .
the weight of a kidney .
the mass of a right cardiac atrium .
the mass of a soleus muscle .
the mass of a female gonad .
the weight of a brain .
the mass of a fat pad .
the weight of a placenta .
the weight of a spleen .
the mass of a embryo .
the mass of a gastrocnemius .
the mass of a heart right ventricle .
the weight of a abdominal fat pad .
the mass of a quadriceps femoris .
the mass of a urinary bladder .
the weight of a liver .
the weight of a thymus .
the mass of a left cardiac atrium .
the mass of a tongue .
the mass of a fallopian tube .
the mass of a heart left ventricle .
the morphology of a mesentery .
the morphology of a ocular adnexa .
the morphology of a common tendinous ring .
the morphology of a common iliac artery .
the morphology of a external capsule of telencephalon .
the morphology of a ectoderm .
the morphology of a mural trophectoderm .
the morphology of a sternocostal joint .
the morphology of a pleuropericardial folds .
the morphology of a neural tube .
the morphology of a ciliary epithelium .
the morphology of a embryonic cloacal fold .
the morphology of a parotid gland myoepithelium .
the morphology of a excitatory synapse .
the morphology of a polar trophectoderm .
the morphology of a germ layer .
the morphology of a mesoderm .
the morphology of a hemotrichorial placental membrane .
the morphology of a platelet alpha granule .
the morphology of a extraembryonic mesoderm .
the morphology of a cell .
the morphology of a melanophage .
the morphology of a costotransverse joint .
the morphology of a symmetric synapse .
the morphology of a rhombomere boundary .
the morphology of a asymmetric synapse .
the morphology of a ribbon synapse .
the morphology of a urachus .
the morphology of a endoderm .
the morphology of a odontogenic mesenchyme .
the morphology of a embryo .
the morphology of a lamina terminalis of neural tube .
the morphology of a beige adipocyte .
the morphology of a inhibitory synapse .
the morphology of a joint of rib .
the morphology of a blastocyst .
the morphology of a costovertebral joint .
the morphology of a circle of willis .
the osmolality of a feces .
the morphology of a mammary gland fluid / secretion .
the size of a head .
the morphology of a adipose tissue .
the size of a right cardiac atrium .
the size of a esophagus .
the morphology of a abdominal fat pad .
the size of a left cardiac atrium .
the spatial pattern of a adipose tissue .
the size of a external ear .
the morphology of a interventricular septum membranous part .
the morphology of a right cardiac atrium .
the morphology of a left cardiac atrium .
the shape of a external ear .
the morphology of a atrium auricular region .
the morphology of a atrioventricular valve .
the morphology of a internal ear .
the width of a head .
the morphology of a superior part of vestibular ganglion .
the morphology of a malleus bone .
the morphology of a tympanic ring .
the morphology of a cochlea .
the morphology of a mitral valve .
the morphology of a vestibule .
the morphology of a membranous labyrinth .
the morphology of a tricuspid valve .
the morphology of a lateral semicircular canal .
the length of a head .
the morphology of a otic capsule .
the morphology of a aortic valve .
the size of a endolymphatic duct .
the morphology of a spiral organ of cochlea .
the morphology of a pulmonary valve .
the morphology of a sensory hair cell .
the morphology of a sulcus ampullaris .
the circumference of a head .
the morphology of a stria vascularis of cochlear duct .
the morphology of a middle ear .
the functionality of a testis .
the quality when measured in urine .
the quality of a ossification .
the morphology of a myocardial compact layer .
the quality of a osteoclast development .
the morphology of a cardiac muscle cell .
the morphology of a myocardium trabecular layer .
the morphology of a papillary muscle of heart .
the morphology of a bone marrow cavity .
the morphology of a blood .
the amount of a mineral when measured in blood .
the quality when measured in embryo .
the elasticity of a bone element .
the morphology of a neurocranium .
the morphology of a blood brain barrier .
the morphology of a vault of skull .
the morphology of a interparietal bone .
the morphology of a supraoccipital bone .
the morphology of a basioccipital bone .
the morphology of a exoccipital bone .
the morphology of a fontanelle .
the morphology of a blood - cerebrospinal fluid barrier .
the morphology of a capillary .
the morphology of a vomer .
the morphology of a ethmoid bone .
the morphology of a nasal bone .
the morphology of a sphenoid bone .
the morphology of a basisphenoid bone .
the morphology of a tetrapod frontal bone .
the morphology of a tetrapod parietal bone .
the quality of a odontogenesis .
the quality of a tooth eruption .
the quality of a cardiovascular system development .
the quality of a blood vessel development .
the has number of of a calcareous tooth .
the morphology of a heart tube .
the strength of a calcareous tooth .
the morphology of a trabecular bone tissue .
the morphology of a epiphysis .
the width of a epiphysis .
the morphology of a metaphysis .
the thickness of a compact bone tissue .
the morphology of a outflow tract .
the morphology of a microglial cell .
the morphology of a vertebra .
the has number of of a vertebra .
the morphology of a parapophysis .
the morphology of a pedicle of vertebra .
the morphology of a bony vertebral centrum .
the thickness of a external ear .
the morphology of a scapula .
the morphology of a rib .
the morphology of a proximal segment of rib .
the morphology of a sternum .
the morphology of a xiphoid process .
the morphology of a cartilage tissue .
the quality of a cartilage development .
the morphology of a long bone epiphyseal plate hypertrophic zone .
the morphology of a chondrocyte .
the has number of of a chondrocyte .
the functionality of a blood vessel .
the functionality of a blood .
the functionality of a lymphatic vessel .
the functionality of a lymph .
the amount of a cholesterol when measured in blood .
the amount of a low - density lipoprotein cholesterol when measured in blood .
the flow rate of a blood .
the pressure of a blood .
the amount of a high - density lipoprotein cholesterol when measured in blood .
the amount of a triglyceride .
the amount of a glucose when measured in blood .
the permeability of a blood vessel .
the amount of a mineral .
the quality of a vasodilation .
the quality of a vasoconstriction .
the amount of a alkaline phosphatase when measured in blood .
the amount of a leukocyte .
the amount of a neutrophil .
the amount of a monocyte .
the quality of a megakaryocyte development .
the has number of of a hematopoietic cell .
the position of a hemopoiesis .
the quality of a erythrocyte differentiation .
the size of a erythrocyte .
the volume of a cerebrospinal fluid .
the permeability of a capillary .
the quality of a hemostasis .
the morphology of a heart .
the quality of a heart development .
the amount of a strand of hair .
the morphology of a aorta .
the shape of a heart .
the shape of a cardial valve .
the morphology of a pericardium .
the amount of a hemoglobin when measured in urine .
the functionality of a endolymph .
the has number of of a granulocyte .
the has number of of a mast cell .
the functionality of a perilymph .
the color of a bile .
the morphology of a cajal - retzius cell .
the functionality of a vestibular system .
the has number of of a limb .
the morphology of a mast cell .
the morphology of a strand of hair .
the has number of of a hair follicle .
the orientation of a hair follicle .
the spatial pattern of a hair follicle .
the size of a hair follicle .
the has number of of a phalanx .
the mass density of a strand of hair .
the length of a strand of hair .
the growth rate of a strand of hair .
the quality of a hair cycle .
the morphology of a palatine process of maxilla .
the morphology of a secondary palatal shelf .
the morphology of a head .
the morphology of a skull .
the morphology of a snout .
the shape of a snout .
the length of a snout .
the width of a nasal bridge .
the morphology of a mouth .
the morphology of a jaw skeleton .
the morphology of a maxilla .
the morphology of a lower jaw region .
the has number of of a trunk or cervical vertebra .
the morphology of a digestive system .
the morphology of a esophagus .
the morphology of a epithelium of esophagus .
the morphology of a esophagus squamous epithelium .
the morphology of a stomach .
the morphology of a epithelium of stomach .
the morphology of a stomach squamous epithelium .
the morphology of a stomach glandular epithelium .
the morphology of a foregut .
the morphology of a intestine .
the morphology of a enterocyte .
the has number of of a enterocyte .
the length of a fibula .
the morphology of a pulmonary artery .
the morphology of a intestinal epithelium .
the morphology of a large intestine .
the morphology of a crypt of lieberkuhn .
the morphology of a rectum .
the morphology of a caecum .
the morphology of a colon .
the morphology of a small intestine .
the position of a small intestine .
the morphology of a intestinal mucosa .
the morphology of a renal system .
the morphology of a cortex of kidney .
the has number of of a nephron tubule .
the size of a kidney pyramid .
the quality of a kidney development .
the morphology of a kidney blood vessel .
the morphology of a ureter .
the morphology of a urethra .
the morphology of a urinary bladder .
the size of a urinary bladder .
the morphology of a urinary bladder urothelium .
the thickness of a urinary bladder urothelium .
the length of a limb .
the morphology of a forelimb .
the morphology of a radius bone .
the morphology of a carpal region .
the morphology of a hindlimb .
the morphology of a tibia .
the morphology of a femur .
the morphology of a autopod region .
the size of a pes .
the morphology of a metapodial pad .
the morphology of a nail .
the shape of a nail .
the length of a nail .
the diameter of a tail .
the quality of a liver development .
the morphology of a liver .
the size of a liver .
the size of a sinusoidal space .
the color of a liver .
the has number of of a hepatocyte .
the morphology of a hepatocyte .
the functionality of a liver .
the morphology of a saliva - secreting gland .
the morphology of a palatine gland .
the morphology of a duct of salivary gland .
the quality of a saliva secretion .
the morphology of a mammary gland .
the quality of a mammary gland development .
the morphology of a neuroendocrine gland .
the morphology of a pineal body .
the morphology of a pituitary gland .
the morphology of a adrenal gland .
the morphology of a adrenal medulla .
the morphology of a cortical cell of adrenal gland .
the morphology of a sebaceous gland .
the size of a sebaceous gland .
the morphology of a sex gland .
the size of a sex gland .
the size of a prostate gland .
the size of a prostate gland lateral lobe .
the size of a prostate gland ventral lobe .
the amount of a prostate duct .
the morphology of a sweat gland .
the morphology of a parathyroid gland .
the morphology of a thyroid gland .
the morphology of a immune system .
the structure of a spleen .
the morphology of a peyer's patch .
the has number of of a lymph node .
the size of a lymph node .
the structure of a thymus .
the quality of a thymus development .
the quality of a vestibular receptor cell development .
the has number of of a thymocyte .
the morphology of a cell when measured in immune system .
the has number of of a lymphocyte .
the quality of a myotome development .
the contractility of a smooth muscle tissue .
the contractility of a urinary bladder detrusor smooth muscle .
the contractility of a muscle layer of ileum .
the morphology of a skeletal muscle tissue .
the thickness of a diaphragm .
the morphology of a tongue .
the morphology of a filiform papilla .
the morphology of a epithelium of tongue .
the morphology of a tongue squamous epithelium .
the morphology of a smooth muscle tissue .
the morphology of a common crus of semicircular duct .
the size of a brain .
the morphology of a inferior colliculus .
the size of a inferior colliculus .
the morphology of a axon tract .
the morphology of a cochlear basement membrane .
the morphology of a corpus callosum .
the size of a corpus callosum .
the morphology of a forebrain .
the morphology of a future telencephalon .
the morphology of a cerebral cortex .
the thickness of a neocortex .
the morphology of a layer of neocortex .
the morphology of a brain marginal zone .
the morphology of a parietal lobe .
the morphology of a postcentral gyrus .
the morphology of a sensory dissociation area .
the morphology of a supramarginal gyrus .
the morphology of a frontal cortex .
the morphology of a precentral gyrus .
the morphology of a primary motor cortex .
the morphology of a temporal lobe .
the morphology of a superior temporal gyrus .
the morphology of a transverse gyrus of heschl .
the morphology of a occipital lobe .
the morphology of a primary visual cortex .
the morphology of a hippocampal formation .
the quality of a hippocampus development .
the morphology of a dentate gyrus of hippocampal formation .
the morphology of a layer of hippocampus .
the morphology of a ammon's horn .
the morphology of a amygdala .
the morphology of a olfactory bulb .
the morphology of a choroid plexus .
the morphology of a brain ventricle .
the morphology of a telencephalic ventricle .
the size of a telencephalic ventricle .
the morphology of a third ventricle .
the size of a third ventricle .
the morphology of a fourth ventricle .
the size of a fourth ventricle .
the morphology of a diencephalon .
the morphology of a dorsal plus ventral thalamus .
the morphology of a ventral thalamus .
the morphology of a subthalamic nucleus .
the morphology of a substantia nigra .
the morphology of a hypothalamus .
the morphology of a epithalamus .
the morphology of a hindbrain .
the morphology of a superior olivary complex .
the morphology of a pontine flexure .
the morphology of a medulla oblongata .
the morphology of a metencephalon .
the morphology of a pons .
the morphology of a cerebellum .
the size of a cerebellum .
the quality of a cerebellum development .
the morphology of a cerebellar plate .
the morphology of a somatosensory cortex .
the morphology of a primary somatosensory cortex .
the morphology of a secondary somatosensory cortex .
the morphology of a cerebellar vermis .
the size of a cerebellar vermis .
the morphology of a cerebellum anterior vermis .
the size of a cerebellum anterior vermis .
the morphology of a cerebellum posterior vermis .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule viii .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule ix .
the morphology of a cerebellum external granule cell layer .
the thickness of a cerebellum external granule cell layer .
the morphology of a purkinje cell layer of cerebellar cortex .
the morphology of a purkinje cell .
the has number of of a purkinje cell .
the morphology of a granular layer of cerebellar cortex .
the morphology of a molecular layer of cerebellar cortex .
the thickness of a molecular layer of cerebellar cortex .
the morphology of a midbrain .
the morphology of a corpora quadrigemina .
the size of a corpora quadrigemina .
the position of a corpora quadrigemina .
the morphology of a superior colliculus .
the size of a superior colliculus .
the morphology of a mesencephalic nucleus of trigeminal nerve .
the size of a mesencephalic nucleus of trigeminal nerve .
the morphology of a facial motor nucleus .
the size of a facial motor nucleus .
the morphology of a motor nucleus of trigeminal nerve .
the size of a motor nucleus of trigeminal nerve .
the quality of a brain development .
the quality of a myelination .
the morphology of a roof plate .
the morphology of a floor plate .
the size of a floor plate .
the morphology of a rhombomere .
the quality of a telencephalon development .
the size of a cerebral hemisphere .
the morphology of a motor neuron .
the has number of of a motor neuron .
the morphology of a oligodendrocyte .
the morphology of a spinal cord .
the morphology of a somatic sensory system .
the morphology of a sensory ganglion .
the morphology of a dorsal root ganglion .
the size of a dorsal root ganglion .
the morphology of a sensory neuron .
the morphology of a pain receptor cell .
the morphology of a thermoreceptor .
the morphology of a mechanoreceptor .
the morphology of a meissner's corpuscle .
the size of a meissner's corpuscle .
the morphology of a merkel nerve ending .
the amount of a merkel nerve ending .
the morphology of a pacinian corpuscle .
the morphology of a ruffini nerve ending .
the morphology of a primary muscle spindle .
the size of a primary muscle spindle .
the morphology of a secondary muscle spindle .
the size of a secondary muscle spindle .
the morphology of a articular capsule .
the morphology of a golgi tendon organ .
the morphology of a chemoreceptor .
the morphology of a taste bud .
the morphology of a retinal rod cell .
the morphology of a retinal cone cell .
the morphology of a sympathetic nervous system .
the morphology of a sympathetic ganglion .
the morphology of a superior cervical ganglion .
the size of a superior cervical ganglion .
the morphology of a middle cervical ganglion .
the morphology of a cervicothoracic ganglion .
the morphology of a fourth lumbar dorsal root ganglion .
the size of a fourth lumbar dorsal root ganglion .
the morphology of a fifth lumbar dorsal root ganglion .
the size of a fifth lumbar dorsal root ganglion .
the morphology of a adrenergic neuron .
the morphology of a peptidergic neuron .
the morphology of a parasympathetic nervous system .
the morphology of a parasympathetic ganglion .
the morphology of a submandibular ganglion .
the size of a submandibular ganglion .
the morphology of a cholinergic neuron .
the morphology of a enteric nervous system .
the morphology of a enteric ganglion .
the morphology of a enteric neuron .
the amount of a enteric neuron .
the morphology of a somatic motor system .
the morphology of a neuromuscular junction .
the morphology of a cranial nerve .
the size of a neuron projection bundle connecting eye with brain .
the morphology of a oculomotor nerve .
the size of a oculomotor nerve .
the morphology of a trochlear nerve .
the size of a trochlear nerve .
the morphology of a trigeminal nerve .
the morphology of a mandibular nerve .
the morphology of a abducens nerve .
the morphology of a facial nerve .
the morphology of a vestibulocochlear nerve .
the morphology of a glossopharyngeal nerve .
the morphology of a vagus nerve .
the morphology of a accessory xi nerve .
the morphology of a hypoglossal nerve .
the morphology of a spinal nerve .
the morphology of a phrenic nerve .
the morphology of a cranial ganglion .
the morphology of a geniculate ganglion .
the size of a geniculate ganglion .
the morphology of a inferior glossopharyngeal ix ganglion .
the size of a glossopharyngeal ganglion .
the morphology of a inferior vagus x ganglion .
the size of a inferior vagus x ganglion .
the morphology of a trigeminal ganglion .
the size of a trigeminal ganglion .
the morphology of a glossopharyngeal ganglion .
the morphology of a superior glossopharyngeal ix ganglion .
the size of a superior glossopharyngeal ix ganglion .
the morphology of a vagus x ganglion .
the morphology of a superior vagus x ganglion .
the size of a superior vagus x ganglion .
the morphology of a glial cell when measured in peripheral nervous system .
the morphology of a myelinating schwann cell .
the has number of of a myelinating schwann cell .
the morphology of a female reproductive system .
the morphology of a uterus .
the morphology of a oocyte .
the morphology of a female gonad .
the size of a female gonad .
the morphology of a ovarian follicle .
the morphology of a uterine cervix .
the morphology of a cervix epithelium .
the morphology of a cervix squamous epithelium .
the morphology of a vagina .
the morphology of a epithelium of vagina .
the thickness of a epithelium of vagina .
the morphology of a vagina orifice .
the size of a vagina orifice .
the morphology of a male reproductive system .
the morphology of a testis .
the size of a testis .
the size of a scrotum .
the size of a prepuce of penis .
the size of a seminiferous tubule of testis .
the quality of a spermatogenesis .
the morphology of a prostate gland .
the morphology of a coagulating gland .
the morphology of a prostate epithelium .
the morphology of a bulbo - urethral gland .
the size of a bulbo - urethral gland .
the morphology of a lung .
the quality of a lung development .
the thickness of a interalveolar septum .
the size of a alveolus of lung .
the thickness of a zone of skin .
the morphology of a skin epidermis .
the thickness of a skin epidermis .
the quality of a epidermis development .
the morphology of a stratum basale of epidermis .
the morphology of a stratum spinosum of epidermis .
the size of a prickle cell .
the thickness of a stratum spinosum of epidermis .
the morphology of a stratum granulosum of epidermis .
the morphology of a stratum corneum of epidermis .
the thickness of a stratum corneum of epidermis .
the morphology of a dermis .
the thickness of a dermis .
the morphology of a connective tissue .
the morphology of a papillary layer of dermis .
the height of a multicellular organism .
the length of a multicellular organism .
the weight of a multicellular organism .
the shape of a strand of vibrissa hair .
the spatial pattern of a strand of vibrissa hair .
the length of a strand of vibrissa hair .
the quality of a eye development .
the orientation of a camera - type eye .
the morphology of a lens of camera - type eye .
the size of a lens of camera - type eye .
the polarity of a lens of camera - type eye .
the morphology of a conjunctiva .
the morphology of a cornea .
the morphology of a pupil .
the shape of a pupil .
the size of a pupil .
the morphology of a iris .
the quality of a eye pigmentation .
the morphology of a retina .
the amount of a retinal cell .
the morphology of a neuron projection bundle connecting eye with brain .
the size of a optic tract .
the morphology of a eyelid .
the size of a tarsal gland .
the morphology of a lacrimal gland .
the functionality of a lacrimal gland .
the amount of a deiter's cell .
the has number of of a pillar cell .
the size of a spiral ligament .
the amount of a strial marginal cell .
the size of a tectorial membrane of cochlea .
the size of a scala media .
the quality of a drinking behavior .
the quality of a eating behavior .
the quality of a grooming behavior .
the size of a scala tympani .
the size of a otic capsule .
the morphology of a vestibular dark cell .
the size of a vestibule .
the size of a incus bone .
the size of a malleus bone .
the spatial pattern of a sleep .
the balance of a multicellular organism .
the quality of a vocalization behavior .
the has number of of a caudal vertebra .
the functionality of a osteoclast .
the strength of a bone element .
the functionality of a cardiovascular system .
the amount of a lipid .
the amount of a insulin  ( human )  when measured in blood .
the amount of a calcium atom when measured in blood .
the amount of a phosphate when measured in blood .
the amount of a bilirubin when measured in blood .
the amount of a erythrocyte .
the amount of a hemoglobin .
the quality of a myeloid cell development .
the morphology of a blood vessel .
the morphology of a mandibular symphysis .
the functionality of a digestive system .
the quality of a digestion .
the quality of a ectoderm development .
the quality of a mesoderm development .
the axial to of a mesoderm development .
the quality of a endoderm development .
the quality of a somite development .
the shape of a somite .
the quality of a gastrulation .
the size of a embryo .
the morphology of a amniotic fold .
the morphology of a placenta .
the quality of a placenta development .
the morphology of a placenta labyrinth .
the morphology of a yolk sac .
the morphology of a blood island .
the color of a yolk sac .
the morphology of a visceral endoderm .
the morphology of a umbilical cord .
the morphology of a allantois .
the quality of a embryo implantation .
the quality of a epinephrine secretion .
the quality of a corticosterone secretion .
the amount of a corticotropin - releasing hormone when measured in blood .
the amount of a glucose when measured in urine .
the quality of a homeostatic process .
the quality of a ion homeostasis .
the amount of a iron atom .
the amount of a magnesium atom when measured in blood .
the amount of a selenium atom .
the amount of a sodium atom when measured in blood .
the amount of a brown adipose tissue .
the amount of a white adipose tissue .
the quality of a regulation of body fluid levels .
the functionality of a immune system .
the has number of of a effector t cell .
the quality of a antigen processing and presentation .
the morphology of a lymphatic vessel .
the functionality of a mammary gland .
the quality of a lactation .
the morphology of a mammary gland alveolus .
the morphology of a mammary duct .
the amount of a dopamine .
the functionality of a reproductive system .
the fertility of a maleate ( 2 -  )  .
the quality of a female fertility .
the quality of a ovulation .
the quality of a meiotic nuclear division .
the quality of a oogenesis .
the quality of a spermatid development .
the volume of a lung .
the morphology of a pancreas .
the quality of a reflex .
the functionality of a chemosensory organ .
the quality of a sensory perception of smell .
the functionality of a gustatory system .
the sensitivity toward of a sensory perception of taste .
the morphology of a seminal vesicle .
the quality of a parental behavior .
the texture of a strand of hair .
the morphology of a hair follicle .
the morphology of a extraembryonic structure .
the quality of a visual perception .
the morphology of a camera - type eye .
the morphology of a zone of skin .
the morphology of a strand of vibrissa hair .
the morphology of a calcareous tooth .
the morphology of a ear .
the functionality of a sensory perception of sound .
the functionality of a musculature of body .
the morphology of a musculature of body .
the morphology of a limb .
the morphology of a digit .
the morphology of a tail .
the morphology of a postcranial axial skeleton .
the morphology of a head bone .
the quality of a lipid homeostasis .
the quality of a metabolic process .
the quality of a hemopoiesis .
the morphology of a cardiovascular system .
the morphology of a respiratory system .
the functionality of a respiratory system .
the morphology of a kidney .
the functionality of a kidney .
the morphology of a hepatobiliary system .
the functionality of a hepatobiliary system .
the quality of a b cell differentiation .
the quality of a t cell differentiation .
the morphology of a brain .
the morphology of a reproductive system .
the morphology of a gland .
the functionality of a gland .
the morphology of a pinna .
the morphology of a cell when measured in brain .
the morphology of a astrocyte .
the morphology of a innervation .
the morphology of a fibula .
the morphology of a artery .
the morphology of a brain commissure .
the morphology of a brain ventricle / choroid plexus .
the morphology of a germ cell .
the has number of of a germ cell .
the quality of a sex determination .
the quality of a gonad development .
the morphology of a seminiferous tubule of testis .
the size of a immune organ .
the size of a spleen .
the morphology of a spleen capsule .
the morphology of a spleen trabecular vein .
the morphology of a primitive streak .
the morphology of a nose .
the morphology of a chordate pharynx .
the morphology of a external naris .
the morphology of a posterior nasal aperture .
the morphology of a nasal cavity .
the morphology of a nasal cavity epithelium .
the morphology of a nasal septum .
the morphology of a paranasal sinus .
the morphology of a olfactory segment of nasal mucosa .
the morphology of a vomeronasal organ .
the morphology of a turbinate bone .
the morphology of a ethmoid sinus .
the morphology of a frontal sinus .
the morphology of a sphenoidal sinus .
the morphology of a larynx .
the morphology of a hypopharynx .
the morphology of a nasopharynx .
the morphology of a oropharynx .
the morphology of a pharyngeal muscle .
the morphology of a glottis .
the morphology of a laryngeal cartilage .
the morphology of a arytenoid cartilage .
the morphology of a cricoid cartilage .
the morphology of a epiglottis .
the morphology of a thyroid cartilage .
the morphology of a mucosa of larynx .
the morphology of a nasal mucosa goblet cell .
the morphology of a muscle of larynx .
the morphology of a bronchus .
the morphology of a left main bronchus .
the morphology of a right main bronchus .
the morphology of a bronchiole .
the morphology of a terminal bronchiole .
the morphology of a alveolus of lung .
the morphology of a pulmonary alveolar duct .
the morphology of a pneumocyte .
the morphology of a type i pneumocyte .
the morphology of a type ii pneumocyte .
the morphology of a lung connective tissue .
the morphology of a respiratory system mucosa .
the morphology of a respiratory muscle .
the morphology of a diaphragm .
the morphology of a intercostal muscle .
the morphology of a trachea .
the morphology of a smooth muscle of trachea .
the duration of a female pregnancy .
the morphology of a blood - air barrier .
the structure of a lymph node .
the morphology of a axillary lymph node .
the morphology of a trabecula of lymph node .
the morphology of a cortex of lymph node .
the morphology of a lymph node b cell domain .
the morphology of a lymph node primary follicle .
the morphology of a secondary nodular lymphoid tissue .
the morphology of a lymph node t cell domain .
the morphology of a medulla of lymph node .
the morphology of a afferent lymphatic vessel .
the morphology of a efferent lymphatic vessel .
the morphology of a cervical lymph node .
the morphology of a popliteal lymph node .
the morphology of a inguinal lymph node .
the morphology of a spleen trabecular artery .
the morphology of a red pulp of spleen .
the morphology of a white pulp of spleen .
the morphology of a periarterial lymphatic sheath .
the morphology of a spleen germinal center .
the morphology of a spleen b cell corona .
the morphology of a spleen central arteriole .
the morphology of a marginal zone of spleen .
the morphology of a spleen marginal sinus .
the size of a thymus .
the morphology of a thymus lobule .
the morphology of a capsule of thymus .
the morphology of a thymus subcapsular epithelium .
the morphology of a thymus trabecula .
the morphology of a cortex of thymus .
the morphology of a medulla of thymus .
the dendritic of a cellular process .
the morphology of a mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue .
the morphology of a gut - associated lymphoid tissue .
the morphology of a tonsillar ring .
the morphology of a palatine tonsil .
the morphology of a pharyngeal tonsil .
the morphology of a lingual tonsil .
the morphology of a tubal tonsil .
the morphology of a peyer's patch epithelium .
the morphology of a peyer's patch follicle .
the morphology of a peyer's patch germinal center .
the morphology of a bronchial - associated lymphoid tissue .
the morphology of a bone marrow cell .
the morphology of a multi fate stem cell .
the morphology of a double negative thymocyte .
the morphology of a myeloblast .
the morphology of a erythroblast .
the quality of a innate immune response .
the morphology of a basophil .
the functionality of a mast cell .
the morphology of a reticulocyte .
the morphology of a semicircular canal .
the morphology of a blood cell .
the morphology of a t - helper 1 cell .
the morphology of a t - helper 2 cell .
the morphology of a effector t cell .
the morphology of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta cytotoxic t cell .
the morphology of a plasma cell .
the morphology of a memory b cell .
the morphology of a granulocyte .
the functionality of a leukocyte .
the functionality of a t cell .
the morphology of a macrophage .
the morphology of a erythrocyte .
the functionality of a macrophage .
the dendritic of a antigen processing and presentation when measured in cell .
the has number of of a b cell .
the functionality of a b cell .
the amount of a immunoglobulin complex .
the functionality of a granulocyte .
the functionality of a neutrophil .
the functionality of a basophil .
the functionality of a eosinophil .
the functionality of a serotonin .
the length of a phalanx .
the length of a digit .
the quality of a blood coagulation .
the morphology of a enamel .
the morphology of a secondary lens fiber .
the morphology of a ileum .
the amount of a eosinophil .
the amount of a basophil .
the morphology of a lymphocyte .
the morphology of a monocyte .
the morphology of a auditory hair cell .
the morphology of a vestibular hair cell .
the morphology of a epididymis .
the size of a uterus .
the shape of a erythrocyte .
the amount of a triglyceride when measured in blood .
the delaminated of a enamel .
the morphology of a sciatic nerve .
the morphology of a ependyma .
the morphology of a keratinocyte .
the quality of a keratinocyte development .
the quality of a liver regeneration .
the morphology of a caput epididymis .
the morphology of a corpus epididymis .
the morphology of a cauda epididymis .
the amount of a corticotropin when measured in blood .
the amount of a potassium atom when measured in blood .
the morphology of a scrotum .
the amount of a sperm .
the quality of a sperm motility .
the morphology of a corpus luteum .
the amount of a corpus luteum .
the amount of a mature ovarian follicle .
the morphology of a molar tooth .
the functionality of a pancreas .
the aggregated of a pancreas secretion .
the amount of a glucagon when measured in blood .
the size of a camera - type eye .
the morphology of a sclera .
the morphology of a vitreous body .
the morphology of a nephron tubule .
the size of a nephron tubule .
the size of a kidney .
the quality of a glycogen catabolic process .
the size of a preputial gland .
the morphology of a preputial gland .
the morphology of a inner cell mass .
the morphology of a immune organ .
the morphology of a vein .
the morphology of a pulmonary vein .
the morphology of a inner ear canal .
the size of a colon .
the quality of a detection of temperature stimulus involved in sensory perception of pain .
the quality of a detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of pain .
the quality of a detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of pain .
the quality of a olfactory bulb development .
the size of a olfactory bulb .
the size of a submandibular lymph node .
the morphology of a semi - lunar valve .
the morphology of a autonomic nervous system .
the morphology of a somatic nervous system .
the size of a heart left ventricle .
the size of a heart right ventricle .
the length of a tail .
the morphology of a caudal vertebra .
the morphology of a hippocampal mossy fiber .
the morphology of a vas deferens .
the morphology of a sertoli cell .
the has number of of a leydig cell .
the morphology of a leydig cell .
the morphology of a retina blood vessel .
the quality of a regulation of water loss via skin .
the size of a spinal cord .
the quality of a tooth mineralization .
the morphology of a dentine .
the morphology of a tooth cavity .
the morphology of a premaxilla .
the morphology of a notochord .
the morphology of a renal corpuscle .
the morphology of a glomerular capsule .
the morphology of a juxtaglomerular apparatus .
the morphology of a cranial suture .
the morphology of a chorion .
the morphology of a lens fiber .
the volume of a aorta .
the proportionality to of a glomerular filtration .
the amount of a sulfate when measured in blood .
the morphology of a vestibulocochlear ganglion .
the morphology of a vestibular ganglion .
the morphology of a posterior semicircular canal .
the morphology of a post - anal tail bud .
the morphology of a ocular fundus .
the functionality of a thyroid gland .
the morphology of a corticospinal tract .
the morphology of a neuron .
the morphology of a otolith .
the morphology of a otolithic part of statoconial membrane .
the quality of a bone mineralization .
the amount of a phosphate when measured in urine .
the amount of a parathyroid hormone when measured in blood .
the quality of a parturition .
the functionality of a adrenal gland .
the aggregated of a 2 , 5 - diphenylfuran .
the morphology of a bile duct .
the quality of a common bile duct development .
the morphology of a articulation .
the quality of a neural crest cell development .
the quality of a neural crest cell migration .
the quality of a axon guidance .
the morphology of a white adipose tissue .
the morphology of a brown adipose tissue .
the size of a blood vessel smooth muscle .
the quality of a germ cell migration .
the has number of of a retinal ganglion cell .
the amount of a calcium atom when measured in urine .
the osmolarity of a urine .
the length of a ureter .
the functionality of a sebaceous gland .
the size of a seminal vesicle .
the quality of a bone remodeling .
the morphology of a hippocampus fimbria .
the morphology of a fornix of brain .
the quality of a cytokine secretion .
the morphology of a renal medulla .
the amount of a hydrogencarbonate when measured in blood .
the amount of a chloride when measured in blood .
the morphology of a thoracic vertebra .
the shape of a tail .
the morphology of a epiphyseal plate .
the morphology of a hyoid bone .
the morphology of a epicardium .
the morphology of a anterior semicircular canal .
the morphology of a metatarsal bone .
the morphology of a metacarpus region .
the has number of of a metacarpus region .
the morphology of a soleus muscle .
the morphology of a gastrocnemius .
the morphology of a tibialis anterior .
the morphology of a cell of skeletal muscle .
the morphology of a egg cylinder .
the quality of a prepulse inhibition .
the thickness of a substantia propria of cornea .
the morphology of a anterior stroma of cornea .
the morphology of a posterior stroma of cornea .
the thickness of a sclera .
the size of a skull .
the morphology of a cardiac atrium .
the morphology of a lateral process of malleus .
the size of a parathyroid gland .
the quality of a respiratory system development .
the morphology of a trachea cartilage .
the morphology of a mammalian vulva .
the morphology of a clitoris .
the has number of of a reticulocyte .
the size of a cardiac atrium .
the size of a otolith .
the has number of of a otolith .
the morphology of a tectorial membrane of cochlea .
the morphology of a tunnel of corti .
the morphology of a soft palate .
the quality of a leukocyte migration .
the morphology of a smooth muscle of esophagus .
the size of a lateral semicircular canal .
the size of a posterior semicircular canal .
the size of a anterior semicircular canal .
the morphology of a scala tympani .
the morphology of a perilymphatic space .
the morphology of a scala media .
the amount of a platelet .
the morphology of a neuromere .
the morphology of a lung elastic tissue .
the morphology of a aorta elastic tissue .
the morphology of a sinus venosus .
the morphology of a placental labyrinth vasculature .
the quality of a forebrain development .
the morphology of a alisphenoid bone .
the morphology of a capsule of lens .
the morphology of a epithelium of lens .
the amount of a hippocampal neuron .
the morphology of a dopaminergic neuron .
the has number of of a dopaminergic neuron .
the functionality of a bile duct .
the size of a bile duct .
the morphology of a abdominal wall .
the morphology of a duodenum .
the orientation of a digestive system element .
the position of a large intestine .
the morphology of a sensory epithelium of spiral organ .
the morphology of a cochlear modiolus .
the size of a cochlear modiolus .
the amount of a amino acid when measured in urine .
the morphology of a perineum .
the morphology of a pharyngotympanic tube .
the has number of of a type b pancreatic cell .
the has number of of a rib .
the morphology of a pectoral muscle .
the amount of a renin when measured in blood .
the amount of a thyroid hormone when measured in blood .
the quality of a luteinization .
the quality of a granulosa cell differentiation .
the morphology of a hypaxial myotome region .
the amount of a glucocorticoid when measured in blood .
the amount of a estrogen when measured in blood .
the quality of a gluconeogenesis .
the morphology of a ventral body wall .
the morphology of a body wall .
the quality of a embryonic hemopoiesis .
the size of a skeletal muscle tissue .
the size of a cell of skeletal muscle .
the size of a post - anal tail bud .
the shape of a platelet .
the thickness of a long bone epiphyseal plate hypertrophic zone .
the quality of a thyroid gland development .
the functionality of a parathyroid gland .
the morphology of a carotid body .
the amount of a glycerol when measured in blood .
the quality of a neurotransmitter uptake .
the amount of a kidney cell .
the size of a pancreas .
the morphology of a parotid gland .
the size of a tail .
the quality of a iodide oxidation .
the quality of a growth hormone secretion .
the functionality of a female gonad .
the amount of a 17beta - hydroxy - 5alpha - androstan - 3 - one when measured in blood .
the morphology of a genital labium .
the size of a genital labium .
the morphology of a labium majora .
the size of a labium majora .
the shape of a labium majora .
the morphology of a labium minora .
the size of a labium minora .
the shape of a labium minora .
the size of a mammalian vulva .
the size of a clitoris .
the quality of a vagina development .
the morphology of a prepuce of penis .
the functionality of a type b pancreatic cell .
the functionality of a pancreatic a cell .
the quality of a insulin secretion .
the quality of a glucagon secretion .
the morphology of a uterine lumen .
the quality of a uterus development .
the morphology of a fallopian tube .
the size of a fallopian tube .
the size of a ureter .
the width of a ureter .
the functionality of a ureter .
the width of a urethra .
the size of a urethra .
the size of a penis .
the functionality of a nephron .
the functionality of a prostate gland .
the size of a cervical os .
the color of a urine .
the amount of a kidney medulla cell .
the quality of a leukocyte tethering or rolling .
the quality of a leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
the morphology of a urothelium .
the morphology of a nervous system .
the functionality of a nervous system .
the morphology of a glial cell .
the quality of a synaptic transmission .
the size of a lung .
the fatigability of a muscle organ .
the has number of of a oligodendrocyte .
the morphology of a radial glial cell .
the shape of a kidney .
the turgor of a zone of skin .
the functionality of a erythrocyte .
the morphology of a locus ceruleus .
the morphology of a long bone epiphyseal plate proliferative zone .
the quality of a sperm capacitation .
the morphology of a periodontium .
the size of a glomerular capsule .
the quality of a ureter development .
the morphology of a inguinal canal .
the morphology of a lobule of pinna .
the size of a lobule of pinna .
the morphology of a inferior olivary complex .
the morphology of a cardiac ganglion .
the morphology of a eye muscle .
the functionality of a glial cell .
the functionality of a microglial cell .
the morphology of a zona pellucida .
the functionality of a male reproductive system .
the functionality of a female reproductive system .
the morphology of a cochlear ganglion .
the quality of a hair follicle development .
the morphology of a hypodermis .
the rotated of a ear .
the closure of a neural tube .
the has number of of a ureter .
the morphology of a long bone .
the morphology of a layer of retina .
the morphology of a photoreceptor layer of retina .
the morphology of a photoreceptor outer segment .
the morphology of a photoreceptor inner segment .
the morphology of a outer nuclear layer of retina .
the morphology of a outer plexiform layer of retina .
the morphology of a inner nuclear layer of retina .
the morphology of a inner plexiform layer of retina .
the morphology of a cartilage of external ear .
the size of a auditory ossicle bone .
the morphology of a face .
the morphology of a mouth mucosa .
the shape of a mouth .
the morphology of a secondary palate .
the morphology of a hard palate .
the width of a secondary palate .
the length of a secondary palate .
the functionality of a thymus .
the depth of a secondary palate .
the morphology of a lip .
the shape of a lip .
the morphology of a minor salivary gland .
the morphology of a major salivary gland .
the morphology of a submandibular gland .
the morphology of a compact bone tissue .
the morphology of a lamellar bone .
the amount of a digit .
the quality of a nucleotide metabolic process .
the morphology of a hair shaft .
the morphology of a cuticle of hair .
the morphology of a cortex of hair .
the morphology of a hair medulla .
the has number of of a strand of hair .
the quality of a pituitary gland development .
the morphology of a rathke's pouch .
the morphology of a pillar cell .
the morphology of a mullerian duct .
the morphology of a mesonephric duct .
the morphology of a coronal suture .
the morphology of a lambdoid suture .
the morphology of a frontal suture .
the morphology of a sagittal suture .
the morphology of a squamoparietal suture .
the amount of a water when measured in zone of skin .
the morphology of a forelimb stylopod .
the morphology of a forelimb zeugopod .
the morphology of a hindlimb stylopod .
the morphology of a hindlimb zeugopod .
the functionality of a harderian gland .
the quality of a nervous system development .
the quality of a midbrain development .
the morphology of a myelin sheath .
the morphology of a serotonergic neuron .
the functionality of a ear .
the functionality of a sensory hair cell .
the morphology of a nephron .
the size of a stomach .
the morphology of a inner cell mass derived epiblast .
the morphology of a embryonic - extraembryonic boundary .
the morphology of a gastric gland .
the quality of a hepatocyte proliferation .
the morphology of a heart right ventricle .
the morphology of a heart left ventricle .
the morphology of a molar crown .
the morphology of a cementum .
the quality of a pancreas development .
the quality of a reproductive system development .
the quality of a ear development .
the morphology of a myotome .
the morphology of a dermatome .
the quality of a skin development .
the quality of a hepaticobiliary system development .
the functionality of a lymphocyte .
the amount of a cholesterol .
the amount of a lipid when measured in blood .
the morphology of a reichert's membrane .
the morphology of a ultimobranchial body .
the morphology of a endocardium .
the amount of a carnitine when measured in blood .
the growth rate of a embryo .
the size of a cochlear ganglion .
the size of a vestibular ganglion .
the morphology of a barrel cortex .
the morphology of a ventral root of spinal cord .
the morphology of a dorsal root of spinal cord .
the morphology of a jejunum .
the contractility of a intestine smooth muscle .
the contractility of a muscle layer of jejunum .
the morphology of a lung blood vessel .
the volume of a amniotic fluid .
the morphology of a interventricular groove .
the morphology of a sublingual gland .
the quality of a regulation of ph .
the composition of a milk .
the morphology of a periocular mesenchyme .
the volume of a right cardiac atrium .
the volume of a left cardiac atrium .
the morphology of a primitive knot .
the morphology of a muscle spindle .
the morphology of a schwann cell precursor .
the amount of a schwann cell precursor .
the morphology of a striatum .
the morphology of a caudate nucleus .
the morphology of a putamen .
the morphology of a nucleus accumbens .
the morphology of a globus pallidus .
the morphology of a habenula .
the morphology of a muscle cell .
the morphology of a sarcoplasmic reticulum .
the morphology of a sarcomere .
the morphology of a z disc .
the spatial pattern of a z disc .
the morphology of a m band .
the morphology of a eyelash .
the quality of a midbrain - hindbrain boundary development .
the morphology of a cerebellar cortex .
the morphology of a cerebellar granule cell .
the morphology of a cerebellar glomerulus .
the morphology of a spinal cord interneuron .
the morphology of a interneuron when measured in brain .
the morphology of a caudate - putamen .
the morphology of a ventral striatum .
the shape of a camera - type eye .
the morphology of a thoracic duct .
the quality of a sertoli cell development .
the morphology of a coronary artery .
the morphology of a pharyngeal arch artery .
the morphology of a atrioventricular node .
the morphology of a sinoatrial node .
the morphology of a atrioventricular bundle .
the morphology of a baroreceptor .
the morphology of a sarcolemma .
the morphology of a conducting system of heart .
the morphology of a purkinje fiber .
the thickness of a hypodermis .
the morphology of a fat cell .
the morphology of a thoracic segment of trunk .
the morphology of a tongue muscle .
the morphology of a mucous neck cell .
the morphology of a chief cell of parathyroid gland .
the morphology of a enteroendocrine cell .
the tonicity of a muscle organ .
the amount of a porphyrin .
the amount of a iron atom when measured in blood .
the morphology of a mammillary body .
the morphology of a adenohypophysis .
the morphology of a neurohypophysis .
the morphology of a lateral geniculate body .
the morphology of a limbic system .
the morphology of a cingulate gyrus .
the morphology of a parahippocampal gyrus .
the morphology of a limbic lobe .
the morphology of a orbitofrontal cortex .
the quality of a pallium development .
the quality of a subpallium development .
the morphology of a intervertebral disk .
the curvature of a vertebral column .
the functionality of a sympathetic nervous system .
the functionality of a baroreceptor .
the morphology of a area postrema .
the morphology of a alveolar ridge .
the morphology of a kidney pyramid .
the morphology of a renal papilla .
the morphology of a renal pelvis .
the morphology of a kidney calyx .
the morphology of a cephalic midbrain flexure .
the size of a stapes bone .
the quality of a sensory perception of sweet taste .
the quality of a sensory perception of bitter taste .
the quality of a sensory perception of sour taste .
the quality of a sensory perception of salty taste .
the quality of a sensory perception of umami taste .
the morphology of a diaphysis .
the morphology of a iridocorneal angle .
the size of a eye trabecular meshwork .
the size of a canal of schlemm .
the morphology of a primitive red blood cell .
the morphology of a masticatory muscle .
the morphology of a masseter muscle .
the size of a masseter muscle .
the morphology of a pterygoid muscle .
the size of a pterygoid muscle .
the morphology of a temporalis muscle .
the size of a temporalis muscle .
the morphology of a plasmacytoid dendritic cell .
the morphology of a extensor digitorum longus .
the morphology of a epaxial myotome region .
the morphology of a crista ampullaris .
the direction of a heart looping .
the morphology of a decidua .
the size of a placenta .
the morphology of a germinal neuroepithelium .
the functionality of a extraembryonic structure .
the color of a placenta .
the morphology of a optic tract .
the morphology of a optic stalk .
the morphology of a optic cup .
the morphology when measured in autopod region .
the morphology of a basement membrane .
the morphology of a basal lamina of epithelium .
the morphology of a ganglionic eminence .
the morphology of a postnatal subventricular zone .
the morphology of a medial ganglionic eminence .
the morphology of a lateral ganglionic eminence .
the morphology of a caudal ganglionic eminence .
the morphology of a oculomotor nuclear complex .
the morphology of a hypoglossal nucleus .
the morphology of a descemet's membrane .
the morphology of a internal acoustic meatus .
the morphology of a lamina of spiral limbus .
the morphology of a spiral ligament .
the morphology of a bony labyrinth .
the morphology of a stapes base .
the morphology of a type 1 otic fibrocyte .
the morphology of a type 2 otic fibrocyte .
the morphology of a type 3 otic fibrocyte .
the morphology of a type 4 otic fibrocyte .
the morphology of a sensory neuron of dorsal root ganglion .
the morphology of a organ of corti supporting cell .
the morphology of a deiter's cell .
the morphology of a hensen cell .
the morphology of a cochlear canal .
the size of a cochlear canal .
the morphology of a basilar membrane of cochlea .
the size of a ear vesicle .
the size of a vestibulocochlear ganglion .
the size of a saccule of membranous labyrinth .
the shape of a sternum .
the length of a sternum .
the morphology of a sternebra .
the size of a sternum .
the has number of of a vestibular hair cell .
the morphology of a macula of saccule of membranous labyrinth .
the morphology of a macula of utricle of membranous labyrinth .
the size of a utricle of membranous labyrinth .
the size of a clavicle bone .
the length of a scapula .
the size of a scapula .
the morphology of a acromion .
the morphology of a scapula spine .
the length of a femur .
the length of a humerus .
the morphology of a deltopectoral crest .
the length of a radius bone .
the length of a tibia .
the curvature of a tibia .
the curvature of a ulna .
the size of a stria vascularis of cochlear duct .
the morphology of a strial basal cell .
the morphology of a strial marginal cell .
the morphology of a strial intermediate cell .
the morphology of a blood vessel when measured in stria vascularis of cochlear duct .
the length of a ulna .
the curvature of a femur .
the curvature of a fibula .
the curvature of a humerus .
the curvature of a radius bone .
the morphology of a prechordal plate .
the morphology of a respiratory bronchiole .
the morphology of a bronchoalveolar duct junction .
the morphology of a respiratory tube .
the morphology of a cochlear inner hair cell .
the has number of of a cochlear inner hair cell .
the morphology of a outer hair cell .
the has number of of a outer hair cell .
the has number of of a auditory hair cell .
the morphology of a crista ampullaris neuroepithelium .
the morphology of a squamous part of temporal bone .
the morphology of a otolith organ .
the morphology of a cochlear labyrinth .
the morphology of a vestibular labyrinth .
the morphology of a claudius cell .
the functionality of a auditory hair cell .
the functionality of a cochlear inner hair cell .
the functionality of a outer hair cell .
the functionality of a vestibular hair cell .
the morphology of a presphenoid bone .
the morphology of a sphenoid bone pterygoid process .
the morphology of a pterygoid bone .
the morphology of a orbitosphenoid .
the length of a outer hair cell .
the morphology of a zygomatic arch .
the morphology of a oval window .
the morphology of a round window of inner ear .
the morphology of a epithelium of conjunctiva .
the morphology of a interdental cell of cochlea .
the size of a cochlea .
the quality of a isotype switching .
the quality of a t cell selection .
the quality of a negative t cell selection .
the quality of a positive t cell selection .
the morphology of a b cell .
the morphology of a b - 1 b cell .
the morphology of a regulatory t cell .
the quality of a b cell selection .
the quality of a b cell positive selection .
the quality of a b cell negative selection .
the functionality of a regulatory t cell .
the has number of of a regulatory t cell .
the has number of of a b - 1 b cell .
the quality of a lymphocyte anergy .
the functionality of a osteoblast .
the mass density of a bone element .
the quality of a osteoblast development .
the morphology of a early pro - b cell .
the morphology of a late pro - b cell .
the morphology of a immature b cell .
the morphology of a trophectoderm .
the morphology of a amnion .
the morphology of a trophoblast .
the morphology of a ectoplacental cone .
the morphology of a trophoblast giant cell .
the morphology of a anus .
the area of a cortex of thymus .
the morphology of a eosinophil .
the morphology of a neutrophil .
the morphology of a natural killer cell .
the functionality of a natural killer cell .
the functionality of a cytotoxic t cell .
the morphology of a reticular layer of dermis .
the morphology of a stratum lucidum of epidermis .
the morphology of a biliary tree .
the morphology of a gall bladder .
the functionality of a gall bladder .
the volume of a bile .
the amount of a double negative thymocyte .
the amount of a erythroblast .
the morphology of a optic choroid .
the morphology of a ciliary body .
the morphology of a tarsal region .
the morphology of a auditory ossicle bone .
the morphology of a incus bone .
the morphology of a stapes bone .
the morphology of a ulna .
the morphology of a talus .
the size of a talus .
the morphology of a ventral horn of spinal cord .
the amount of a motor neuron .
the amount of a growth hormone when measured in blood .
the amount of a very - low - density lipoprotein cholesterol when measured in blood .
the morphology of a gubernaculum  ( male or female )  .
the quality of a b cell proliferation .
the amount of a protein when measured in urine .
the female of a meiotic nuclear division .
the male of a meiotic nuclear division .
the amount of a testosterone when measured in blood .
the amount of a estradiol when measured in blood .
the amount of a progesterone when measured in blood .
the morphology of a penis .
the length of a perineum .
the morphology of a anterior segment of eyeball .
the morphology of a anterior uvea .
the morphology of a posterior segment of eyeball .
the morphology of a uvea .
the morphology of a aqueous drainage system .
the morphology of a pigmented layer of retina .
the morphology of a eye trabecular meshwork .
the morphology of a canal of schlemm .
the morphology of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
the morphology of a aqueous humor of eyeball .
the morphology of a aqueous vein .
the morphology of a iris stroma .
the morphology of a mucosa of stomach .
the thickness of a mucosa of stomach .
the morphology of a islet of langerhans .
the morphology of a pancreatic a cell .
the morphology of a type b pancreatic cell .
the morphology of a pancreatic d cell .
the morphology of a exocrine pancreas .
the size of a somite .
the morphology of a brachial lymph node .
the morphology of a mesenteric lymph node .
the morphology of a olfactory lobe .
the morphology of a olfactory nerve .
the morphology of a olfactory tract .
the morphology of a bruch's membrane .
the morphology of a amacrine cell .
the morphology of a ganglionic layer of retina .
the morphology of a orbit of skull .
the morphology of a extra - ocular muscle .
the morphology of a harderian gland .
the morphology of a palatine bone .
the has number of of a sertoli cell .
the morphology of a tarsal gland .
the functionality of a camera - type eye .
the morphology of a olfactory cortex .
the morphology of a occipital bone .
the morphology of a jugal bone .
the morphology of a lacrimal bone .
the morphology of a temporal bone .
the morphology of a basicranium .
the morphology of a facial skeleton .
the morphology of a brainstem .
the quality of a cholesterol homeostasis .
the amount of a fatty acid when measured in adipose tissue .
the amount of a unsaturated fatty acid when measured in adipose tissue .
the amount of a saturated fatty acid when measured in adipose tissue .
the morphology of a cardiac ventricle .
the morphology of a humerus .
the morphology of a clavicle bone .
the morphology of a posterior chamber of eyeball .
the morphology of a substantia propria of cornea .
the morphology of a corneal endothelium .
the functionality of a urinary bladder .
the size of a coagulating gland .
the morphology of a phalanx .
the amount of a ammonia when measured in blood .
the functionality of a saliva - secreting gland .
the amount of a amino acid when measured in blood .
the quality of a sensory perception of touch .
the morphology of a glomerular capillary .
the morphology of a glomerular visceral epithelial cell .
the morphology of a mesangial cell .
the amount of a creatinine when measured in blood .
the morphology of a myocardium .
the morphology of a fat pad .
the morphology of a gonadal fat pad .
the morphology of a inguinal fat pad .
the morphology of a retroperitoneal fat pad .
the amount of a corticosterone when measured in blood .
the amount of a aldosterone when measured in blood .
the morphology of a patella .
the morphology of a ilium .
the size of a thyroid gland .
the morphology of a incisor tooth .
the size of a pituitary gland .
the functionality of a langerhans cell .
the quality when measured in musculature of body .
the quality of a life cycle .
the quality of a embryo development .
the quality of a head .
the quality when measured in respiratory system .
the quality when measured in reproductive system .
the quality when measured in olfactory system .
the quality of a action potential .
the morphology of a axon .
the size of a heart .
the quality of a fertilization .
the amount of a protein when measured in blood .
the amount of a hormone when measured in blood .
the functionality of a somatic nervous system .
the amount of a macrophage .
the has number of of a oocyte .
the morphology of a pro - b cell .
the amount of a glycogen .
the quality of a ethanol metabolic process .
the quality of a retinol metabolic process .
the quality of a neurotransmitter secretion .
the energy of a metabolic process .
the amount of a adipose tissue .
the morphology of a dendritic cell .
the functionality of a platelet .
the amount of a thyroxine when measured in blood .
the amount of a 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine when measured in blood .
the amount of a bronchial epithelial cell .
the has number of of a clara cell .
the morphology of a chemosensory organ .
the morphology of a gustatory system .
the functionality of a zone of skin .
the functionality of a renal system .
the morphology of a tendon .
the morphology of a ligament .
the amount of a atrial natriuretic factor when measured in blood .
the temperature of a multicellular organism .
the morphology of a midbrain cerebral aqueduct .
the thickness of a cornea .
the quality of a lens development in camera - type eye .
the morphology of a mueller cell .
the quality of a catalytic activity .
the morphology of a blood vessel smooth muscle .
the contractility of a blood vessel smooth muscle .
the size of a neuron .
the amount of a vasopressin when measured in blood .
the morphology of a meninx .
the functionality of a hypothalamus .
the functionality of a pituitary gland .
the functionality of a sex gland .
the morphology of a limb bud .
the morphology of a indifferent gonad .
the morphology of a neural plate .
the amount of a  ( r )  - adrenaline when measured in blood .
the amount of a  ( r )  - noradrenaline when measured in blood .
the amount of a leptin when measured in blood .
the size of a gall bladder .
the morphology of a corneal epithelium .
the morphology of a interneuron .
the has number of of a interneuron .
the has number of of a sensory neuron .
the morphology of a basal ganglion .
the quality of a neurogenesis .
the quality of a neuron migration .
the morphology of a endolymphatic duct .
the size of a endolymphatic sac .
the morphology of a tympanic membrane .
the size of a tympanic membrane .
the size of a tympanic ring .
the morphology of a vestibular membrane of cochlear duct .
the size of a vestibular membrane of cochlear duct .
the size of a terminal bronchiole .
the morphology of a sclerotome .
the morphology of a ear vesicle .
the morphology of a pharyngeal pouch .
the morphology of a ureteric bud .
the morphology of a external acoustic meatus .
the amount of a myoglobin when measured in urine .
the morphology of a blood vessel endothelial cell .
the has number of of a blood vessel endothelial cell .
the symmetry of a cardiac atrium .
the morphology of a vena cava .
the morphology of a posterior vena cava .
the morphology of a anterior vena cava .
the position of a heart .
the morphology of a retina horizontal cell .
the morphology of a retinal neural layer .
the amount of a homocysteine when measured in blood .
the morphology of a nipple .
the morphology of a blood vessel elastic tissue .
the amount of a phospholipid when measured in blood .
the morphology of a saccule of membranous labyrinth .
the morphology of a utricle of membranous labyrinth .
the morphology of a olfactory epithelium .
the morphology of a olfactory receptor cell .
the thickness of a cortical layer ii .
the morphology of a midbrain tegmentum .
the size of a midbrain tegmentum .
the morphology of a roof plate of midbrain .
the morphology of a midbrain tectum .
the size of a midbrain tectum .
the morphology of a atrioventricular canal .
the quality of a hindbrain development .
the morphology of a cardiac septum .
the orientation of a great vessel of heart .
the curvature of a cornea .
the thickness of a eyelid .
the morphology of a epicanthal fold .
the morphology of a myeloid dendritic cell .
the size of a optic choroid .
the morphology of a conjunctival vein .
the orientation of a eyeball of camera - type eye .
the size of a orbit of skull .
the width of a orbit of skull .
the depth of a orbit of skull .
the symmetry of a orbit of skull .
the morphology of a optic disc .
the size of a optic disc .
the size of a iris .
the has number of of a pupil .
the morphology of a choroidal blood vessel .
the position of a pupil .
the position of a lens of camera - type eye .
the morphology of a line of schwalbe .
the morphology of a gustatory papilla of tongue .
the morphology of a fungiform papilla .
the morphology of a vallate papilla .
the morphology of a foliate papilla .
the morphology of a tongue taste bud .
the amount of a sodium atom when measured in urine .
the functionality of a autonomic nervous system .
the functionality of a parasympathetic nervous system .
the quality of a limb development .
the morphology of a spinal cord dorsal column .
the morphology of a memory t cell .
the has number of of a t cell .
the orientation of a apex of heart .
the morphology of a endocardial cushion .
the size of a endocardial cushion .
the thickness of a endocardial cushion .
the has number of of a cardiac muscle cell .
the weight of a left cardiac atrium .
the weight of a right cardiac atrium .
the volume of a heart left ventricle .
the weight of a heart left ventricle .
the volume of a heart right ventricle .
the weight of a heart right ventricle .
the orientation of a pericardium .
the orientation of a endocardial cushion .
the orientation of a heart tube .
the morphology of a interatrial septum .
the morphology of a interventricular septum .
the size of a aorta .
the diameter of a bulb of aorta .
the morphology of a t cell .
the has number of of a natural killer cell .
the has number of of a memory t cell .
the functionality of a memory t cell .
the has number of of a t - helper 1 cell .
the quality of a t - helper 1 cell differentiation .
the has number of of a t - helper 2 cell .
the quality of a t - helper 2 cell differentiation .
the has number of of a memory b cell .
the has number of of a plasma cell .
the morphology of a kupffer cell .
the dendritic of a cell maturation .
the morphology of a langerhans cell .
the has number of of a langerhans cell .
the has number of of a myeloid dendritic cell .
the has number of of a plasmacytoid dendritic cell .
the has number of of a dendritic cell .
the has number of of a peyer's patch .
the size of a peyer's patch .
the morphology of a b - 1a b cell .
the morphology of a b - 1b b cell .
the morphology of a b - 2 b cell .
the has number of of a b - 1a b cell .
the has number of of a b - 1b b cell .
the morphology of a mature b cell .
the morphology of a follicular b cell .
the has number of of a follicular b cell .
the morphology of a germinal center b cell .
the has number of of a germinal center b cell .
the morphology of a marginal zone b cell .
the has number of of a marginal zone b cell .
the morphology of a naive b cell .
the has number of of a naive b cell .
the morphology of a transitional stage b cell .
the has number of of a transitional stage b cell .
the functionality of a follicular b cell .
the functionality of a germinal center b cell .
the functionality of a marginal zone b cell .
the functionality of a memory b cell .
the morphology of a follicular dendritic cell .
the functionality of a follicular dendritic cell .
the has number of of a follicular dendritic cell .
the has number of of a b - 2 b cell .
the has number of of a pro - b cell .
the decreased amount of a mature b cell .
the has number of of a immature b cell .
the morphology of a splenic marginal zone macrophage .
the morphology of a perivascular macrophage .
the morphology of a peritoneal macrophage .
the morphology of a alveolar macrophage .
the morphology of a leukocyte .
the morphology of a mononuclear phagocyte .
the morphology of a common lymphoid progenitor .
the morphology of a phagocyte .
the morphology of a multinucleated phagocyte .
the morphology of a gamma - delta t cell .
the morphology of a mature gamma - delta t cell .
the has number of of a gamma - delta t cell .
the morphology of a gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell .
the has number of of a gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell .
the has number of of a mature gamma - delta t cell .
the morphology of a cd4 - negative cd8 - negative gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell .
the morphology of a cd8 - alpha alpha positive ,  gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell .
the morphology of a cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cell .
the morphology of a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cell .
the morphology of a alpha - beta intraepithelial t cell .
the morphology of a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta intraepithelial t cell .
the morphology of a cd8 - alpha - beta - positive ,  alpha - beta intraepithelial t cell .
the morphology of a peripheral lymph node .
the size of a mesenteric lymph node .
the morphology of a spleen lymphoid follicle .
the morphology of a spleen primary b follicle .
the morphology of a spleen secondary b follicle .
the morphology of a spleen follicular dendritic cell network .
the amount of a spleen germinal center .
the size of a spleen germinal center .
the morphology of a lymph node germinal center .
the size of a cervical lymph node .
the quality of a interferon - alpha secretion .
the quality of a interferon - beta secretion .
the quality of a interferon - gamma secretion .
the amount of a interleukin - 1 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 10 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 6 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 2 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 4 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 7 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 13 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 15 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 17 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 3 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 5 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 9 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 16 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 18 when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 1 alpha when measured in blood .
the amount of a interleukin - 1 beta when measured in blood .
the quality of a interleukin - 1 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 1 alpha secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 1 beta secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 10 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 12 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 13 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 15 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 16 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 17 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 18 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 2 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 23 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 3 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 4 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 5 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 6 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 7 secretion .
the quality of a interleukin - 9 secretion .
the quality of a eosinophil migration .
the functionality of a spleen .
the amount of a iron atom when measured in spleen .
the quality of a b cell anergy .
the quality of a central b cell anergy .
the peripheral of a b cell anergy .
the quality of a t cell anergy .
the peripheral of a t cell anergy .
the amount of a tumor necrosis factor receptor binding .
the quality of a t cell receptor v ( d ) j recombination .
the quality of a immunoglobulin v ( d ) j recombination .
the quality of a immunoglobulin light chain v - j recombination .
the quality of a b cell receptor editing .
the functionality of a plasmacytoid dendritic cell .
the quality of a lymphangiogenesis .
the morphology of a intraepithelial lymphocyte .
the amount of a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta intraepithelial t cell .
the quality of a interleukin - 21 secretion .
the amount of a interleukin - 21 when measured in blood .
the quality of a spleen development .
the morphology of a hassall's corpuscle .
the morphology of a thymus corticomedullary boundary .
the morphology of a thymus epithelium .
the size of a inguinal lymph node .
the morphology of a abdominal lymph node .
the morphology of a celiac lymph node .
the morphology of a submandibular lymph node .
the size of a brachial lymph node .
the size of a axillary lymph node .
the size of a popliteal lymph node .
the quality of a cellular extravasation .
the morphology of a t1 b cell .
the morphology of a t2 b cell .
the morphology of a t3 b cell .
the has number of of a t1 b cell .
the has number of of a t2 b cell .
the size of a mammary gland .
the morphology of a bone element .
the quality of a bone development .
the morphology of a cutaneous appendage .
the mass of a femur .
the strength of a femur .
the strength of a humerus .
the mass of a humerus .
the circumference of a femur .
the mass of a tibia .
the symmetry of a mammary gland .
the mass of a epididymis .
the diameter of a seminiferous tubule of testis .
the length of a metacarpus region .
the length of a forelimb .
the length of a hindlimb .
the amount of a dodecenoic acid when measured in milk .
the amount of a pentadecanoic acid when measured in milk .
the amount of a alpha - lactalbumin when measured in milk .
the height of a udder .
the quality of a chemokine secretion .
the morphology of a sperm .
the functionality of a ovarian follicle .
the amount of a fatty acid .
the functionality of a tendon .
the amount of a saturated fatty acid when measured in muscle organ .
the amount of a unsaturated fatty acid when measured in muscle organ .
the morphology of a brown fat cell .
the functionality of a connective tissue .
the quality of a connective tissue development .
the morphology of a loop of henle .
the morphology of a renal convoluted tubule .
the morphology of a collecting duct of renal tubule .
the morphology of a proximal convoluted tubule .
the morphology of a distal convoluted tubule .
the morphology of a lymphatic part of lymphoid system .
the length of a esophagus .
the morphology of a occipitomastoid suture .
the morphology of a parietomastoid suture .
the morphology of a sphenofrontal suture .
the morphology of a sphenoparietal suture .
the morphology of a sphenozygomatic suture .
the functionality of a skeletal muscle tissue .
the morphology of a maxillary sinus .
the morphology of a zygomatic process of maxilla .
the morphology of a frontal process of maxilla .
the morphology of a long lived plasma cell .
the morphology of a short lived plasma cell .
the morphology of a vertebral column .
the morphology of a ischium .
the morphology of a pubis .
the morphology of a pectoral girdle region .
the morphology of a pelvic girdle region .
the morphology of a appendicular skeleton .
the morphology of a thoracic rib cage .
the morphology of a costal cartilage .
the morphology of a osteoblast .
the morphology of a osteoclast .
the has number of of a osteoblast .
the morphology of a osteocyte .
the has number of of a osteoclast .
the functionality of a egg cell .
the morphology of a forelimb long bone .
the morphology of a hindlimb long bone .
the morphology of a limb muscle .
the morphology of a hindlimb muscle .
the morphology of a hippocampal pyramidal neuron .
the functionality of a myocardium .
the functionality of a smooth muscle tissue .
the morphology of a intercalated disc .
the size of a masticatory muscle .
the size of a intercostal muscle .
the size of a diaphragm .
the size of a pectoral muscle .
the size of a longissimus thoracis muscle .
the morphology of a somite .
the size of a celiac lymph node .
the size of a bursa of fabricius .
the mass of a esophagus .
the has number of of a dn1 thymic pro - t cell .
the mass of a caecum .
the has number of of a dn2 thymocyte .
the volume of a gizzard .
the has number of of a dn3 thymocyte .
the has number of of a dn4 thymocyte .
the quality of a immune response .
the mass of a small intestine .
the amount of a nerve fiber .
the mass of a pancreas .
the mass of a rectum .
the functionality of a interleukin - 10 .
the quality of a immune system development .
the morphology of a nucleated thrombocyte .
the quality of a lymphocyte proliferation .
the has number of of a leukocyte when measured in immune system .
the morphology of a cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  alpha - beta intraepithelial t cell .
the length of a colon .
the mass of a colon .
the length of a intestine .
the mass of a intestine .
the length of a duodenum .
the mass of a duodenum .
the volume of a stomach .
the mass of a stomach .
the thickness of a stomach smooth muscle .
the thickness of a epithelium of stomach .
the morphology of a proventriculus .
the volume of a proventriculus .
the mass of a proventriculus .
the thickness of a duodenal mucosa .
the length of a jejunum .
the mass of a jejunum .
the thickness of a jejunal mucosa .
the length of a large intestine .
the mass of a large intestine .
the morphology of a duodenal mucosa .
the morphology of a jejunal mucosa .
the morphology of a ileal mucosa .
the length of a ileum .
the mass of a ileum .
the thickness of a ileal mucosa .
the thickness of a colonic mucosa .
the thickness of a cecum mucosa .
the morphology of a ruminant forestomach .
the volume of a ruminant forestomach .
the mass of a ruminant forestomach .
the morphology of a crop .
the mass of a crop .
the morphology of a reticulorumen .
the volume of a reticulorumen .
the weight of a reticulorumen .
the morphology of a rumen papilla .
the morphology of a omasum .
the volume of a omasum .
the mass of a omasum .
the quality when measured in hemolymphoid system .
the morphology of a hematopoietic system .
the morphology of a hemolymphoid system .
the quality when measured in colostrum .
the volume of a colostrum .
the amount of a whey acidic protein when measured in milk .
the amount of a lactotransferrin when measured in milk .
the amount of a hormone when measured in colostrum .
the amount of a steroid when measured in colostrum .
the amount of a leptin when measured in colostrum .
the orientation of a ear .
the amount of a hormone when measured in milk .
the amount of a steroid when measured in milk .
the amount of a leptin when measured in milk .
the amount of a alpha - s1 - casein when measured in milk .
the amount of a kappa - casein when measured in milk .
the amount of a beta - casein when measured in milk .
the amount of a lactose when measured in milk .
the amount of a mineral when measured in milk .
the amount of a calcium atom when measured in milk .
the amount of a potassium atom when measured in milk .
the amount of a sodium atom when measured in milk .
the amount of a phosphorus atom when measured in milk .
the amount of a chloride when measured in milk .
the amount of a magnesium atom when measured in milk .
the size of a cardiac ventricle .
the amount of a uric acid when measured in blood .
the amount of a fatty acid when measured in milk .
the amount of a saturated fatty acid when measured in milk .
the amount of a unsaturated fatty acid when measured in milk .
the amount of a arachidic acid when measured in milk .
the amount of a omega - 3 fatty acid when measured in milk .
the amount of a omega - 6 fatty acid when measured in milk .
the amount of a conjugated linoleic acid when measured in milk .
the amount of a monounsaturated fatty acid when measured in milk .
the amount of a polyunsaturated fatty acid when measured in milk .
the diameter of a female gonad .
the amount of a beta - carotene when measured in milk .
the amount of a retinol when measured in milk .
the amount of a triglyceride when measured in milk .
the amount of a cholesterol when measured in milk .
the length of a fallopian tube .
the amount of a diglyceride when measured in milk .
the amount of a monoglyceride when measured in milk .
the amount of a phospholipid when measured in milk .
the amount of a polyphenol when measured in milk .
the amount of a butyrophilin when measured in milk .
the morphology of a uterine horn .
the thickness of a endometrium .
the amount of a urea when measured in milk .
the amount of a ammonia when measured in milk .
the size of a ovarian follicle .
the size of a corpus luteum .
the shape of a cervical os .
the size of a sperm .
the size of a sperm flagellum .
the quality of a luteinizing hormone secretion .
the quality of a follicle - stimulating hormone secretion .
the quality of a prolactin secretion .
the quality of a leukocyte proliferation .
the morphology of a cd8 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cell .
the mass of a adrenal gland .
the mass of a epididymal fat pad .
the mass of a femoral fat pad .
the mass of a gonadal fat pad .
the mass of a inguinal fat pad .
the mass of a interscapular fat pad .
the mass of a mammary fat pad .
the mass of a mesenteric fat pad .
the mass of a parametrial fat pad .
the mass of a renal fat pad .
the mass of a retroperitoneal fat pad .
the mass of a uterine fat pad .
the quality of a behavior .
the mass of a forelimb muscle .
the mass of a hindlimb muscle .
the mass of a abdominal wall .
the quality when measured in multicellular organism .
the quality of a rhythmic behavior .
the amount of a mineral when measured in cerebrospinal fluid .
the size of a platelet .
the area of a external ear .
the quality of a fertility .
the mass of a prostate gland .
the mass of a prostate gland lateral lobe .
the mass of a prostate gland ventral lobe .
the amount of a insulin  ( human )  when measured in pancreas .
the quality of a exploration behavior .
the amount of a serotonin when measured in nervous system .
the quality of a response to xenobiotic stimulus .
the quality of a response to alcohol .
the diameter of a heart left ventricle .
the diameter of a left cardiac atrium .
the morphology of a lumbar vertebra .
the mass of a inguinal lymph node .
the mass of a pituitary gland .
the amount of a cholesterol when measured in liver .
the amount of a calcium atom .
the amount of a catecholamine when measured in urine .
the mass of a neurocranium .
the mass of a lumbar vertebra .
the amount of a serotransferrin when measured in blood .
the amount of a fibronectin when measured in blood .
the amount of a glutathione when measured in blood .
the size of a neurocranium .
the size of a lumbar vertebra .
the amount of a triglyceride when measured in liver .
the mass of a seminal vesicle .
the quality of a associative learning .
the morphology of a rostral migratory stream .
the morphology of a lateral septal nucleus .
the size of a lateral septal nucleus .
the thickness of a enamel .
the morphology of a thoracic aorta .
the morphology of a quadriceps femoris .
the area of a lumbar vertebra .
the strength of a vertebra .
the strength of a lumbar vertebra .
the mass of a thyroid gland .
the morphology of a areola .
the amount of a areola .
the mass of a uterus .
the morphology of a cranium .
the size of a cranium .
the mass of a cranium .
the mass of a bulbo - urethral gland .
the morphology of a renal artery .
the morphology of a iliac artery .
the mass of a biceps brachii .
the mass of a biceps femoris .
the morphology of a forelimb muscle .
the length of a feather .
the morphology of a comb .
the size of a comb .
the shape of a comb .
the morphology of a row of feathers .
the width of a row of feathers .
the mass of a semimembranosus muscle .
the mass of a gluteus medius .
the width of a longissimus thoracis muscle .
the morphology of a tarsometatarsus .
the mass of a tarsometatarsus .
the length of a tarsometatarsus .
the circumference of a tarsometatarsus .
the size of a semimembranosus muscle .
the width of a semimembranosus muscle .
the diameter of a tarsometatarsus .
the morphology of a peritoneum .
the morphology of a longissimus muscle .
the morphology of a epididymal fat pad .
the morphology of a femoral fat pad .
the morphology of a interscapular fat pad .
the morphology of a mammary fat pad .
the morphology of a mesenteric fat pad .
the morphology of a parametrial fat pad .
the morphology of a renal fat pad .
the morphology of a uterine fat pad .
the morphology of a white fat cell .
the size of a white fat cell .
the amount of a neuron .
the morphology of a auditory cortex .
the quality of a gland development .
the width of a multicellular organism .
the volume of a milk .
the morphology of a beak .
the morphology of a thoracic cavity .
the morphology of a hippocampal neuron .
the quality of a head development .
the morphology of a paravertebral ganglion .
the morphology of a prevertebral ganglion .
the quality of a surface structure .
the morphology of a opercular flap .
the morphology of a lumbar dorsal root ganglion .
the morphology of a cloaca .
the functionality of a head .
the functionality of a brain .
the quality of a thoracic segment of trunk .
the quality when measured in sacral region .
the morphology of a postganglionic parasympathetic fiber .
the morphology of a preganglionic parasympathetic fiber .
the quality when measured in gustatory system .
the morphology of a surface structure .
the functionality of a surface structure .
the quality of a appendage development .
the functionality of a appendage .
the morphology of a appendage .
the morphology of a paired fin .
the quality of a fin regeneration .
the quality when measured in anatomical system .
the morphology of a styloid process of temporal bone .
the morphology of a subarcuate fossa .
the quality of a chemical homeostasis .
the quality of a sterol homeostasis .
the morphology of a cerebellum vermis lobule .
the amount of a mineral when measured in urine .
the quality of a vitamin metabolic process .
the quality of a glucose metabolic process .
the quality of a alcohol metabolic process .
the quality when measured in vestibular system .
the quality of a sensory perception .
the morphology of a vestibular system .
the quality of a equilibrioception .
the quality of a sensory perception of pain .
the morphology of a hippocampus pyramidal layer .
the morphology of a telencephalon .
the morphology of a neocortex .
the morphology of a neuron projection .
the morphology of a dendrite .
the morphology of a synapse .
the quality of a inner ear development .
the size of a humerus .
the size of a tibia .
the quality of a connective tissue .
the quality of a organism subdivision .
the size of a multicellular organism .
the quality of a growth .
the functionality of a kidney blood vessel .
the quality of a circulatory system development .
the morphology of a circulatory system .
the functionality of a circulatory system .
the functionality of a integumental system .
the morphology of a integumental system .
the size of a mammary gland alveolus .
the diameter of a mammary gland alveolus .
the shape of a nipple .
the diameter of a nipple .
the orientation of a nipple .
the circumference of a mammary gland .
the weight of a mammary gland .
the size of a udder .
the volume of a mammary gland alveolus .
the circumference of a chest .
the width of a hip .
the morphology of a udder .
the weight of a bone element .
the thickness of a intercostal muscle .
the has number of of a lumbar vertebra .
the has number of of a thoracic vertebra .
the thickness of a adipose tissue .
the weight of a longissimus thoracis muscle .
the weight of a intercostal muscle .
the amount of a protein when measured in milk .
the intensity of a estrus .
the length of a nipple .
the has number of of a nipple .
the circumference of a scrotum .
the weight of a adipose tissue of abdominal region .
the weight of a pectoral muscle .
the weight of a gizzard .
the area of a humerus .
the width of a humerus .
the area of a tibia .
the strength of a tibia .
the elasticity of a tibia .
the width of a tibia .
the amount of a egg cell .
the circumference of a metacarpal bone of digit 3 .
the size of a femur .
the amount of a 5alpha - androst - 16 - en - 3 - one when measured in muscle organ .
the weight of a diaphragm .
the weight of a head .
the length of a small intestine .
the weight of a zone of skin .
the amount of a lactate when measured in muscle organ .
the amount of a cholesterol when measured in muscle organ .
the amount of a indole when measured in muscle organ .
the amount of a water when measured in muscle organ .
the amount of a protein when measured in muscle organ .
the amount of a skatole when measured in muscle organ .
the conductivity of a muscle organ .
the conductivity of a skeletal muscle tissue .
the amount of a 5alpha - androst - 16 - en - 3 - one when measured in adipose tissue .
the amount of a lipid when measured in muscle organ .
the area of a longissimus thoracis muscle .
the depth of a eye muscle .
the length of a longissimus thoracis muscle .
the amount of a type iib muscle cell .
the length of a uterine horn .
the weight of a uterine horn .
the weight of a female gonad .
the length of a uterus .
the mass of a testis .
the length of a lactation .
the morphology of a feather .
the width of a femur .
the morphology of a gizzard .
the amount of a cortisol when measured in blood .
the mass of a autopod region .
the weight of a forelimb .
the weight of a metatarsal bone .
the weight of a hindlimb .
the depth of a udder .
the height of a mammary gland .
the width of a mammary gland .
the morphology of a longissimus thoracis muscle .
the weight of a skeletal muscle tissue .
the width of a chest .
the depth of a chest .
the depth of a heel .
the orientation of a pes .
the morphology of a sacral region .
the width of a sacral region .
the angle of a sacral region .
the length of a sarcomere .
the has number of of a cell of skeletal muscle .
the amount of a type i muscle cell .
the amount of a type iia muscle cell .
the amount of a dinitrogen when measured in muscle organ .
the amount of a myoglobin when measured in muscle organ .
the quality when measured in integumental system .
the quality when measured in digestive system .
the quality when measured in renal system .
the quality when measured in nervous system .
the quality when measured in immune system .
the quality when measured in circulatory system .
the pressure of a arterial blood .
the pressure of a capillary blood .
the pressure of a venous blood .
the contractility of a myocardium .
the quality of a platelet activation .
the quality of a platelet aggregation .
the viscosity of a blood .
the functionality of a strand of hair .
the morphology of a integumentary system layer .
the morphology of a endocrine pancreas .
the morphology of a mucous gland .
