the color of the placenta .
traits and phenotypes related to flowering .
fruit ripening process .
chlorophyll deficiency localized at growing point .
olive ,  brown ,  blue - green leaf .
obsolete .use parent term instead sp:0000003 .
fruit related traits and phenotypes .
the shape of a fruit .
shape ratio .
the ratio of the maximum fruit height to maximum fruit width .
leaf width in cm .
the ratio of fruit height mid - width to fruit width mid - height .
swollen storage shoot with determinate growth .
internal ellipse height / width ratio .
proximal / distal width ratio .the ratio of the width at fruit proximal end to the width at the fruit distal end .
fitting precision r2 .how well the boundary of a perfect circle fits the boundary of a fruit .
the asymmetry of the fruit .
1 / 2fob ( y )  x tob .
1 / 2fov ( y )  x tov .
0 .25 x  [ 1 / 2fov ( y )  x tov ]   +  20 x  [  ( h_sl  +  h_sr )  / 2*h ]  the degree of heart shapeness .
internal ellipse height  /  height top ellipse - bottom fruit ratio .
internal ellipse height / height bottom ellipse - top fruit ratio  .
 [ sum|n - ny| ]  / l .degree of horizontal asymmetry  .
 [ sum|m - mi| ]  / l .degree of vertical asymmetry .
fitting precision r2 .how well the boundary of a perfect ellipse fits the boundary of a fruit .
 .the ratio of the area of the rectangle bounding the fruit to the area of the rectangle bounded by the fruit .
the ends of the fruit .
the shape of the distal end of the fruit .
the shape of the proximal end of the fruit .
angle between intersection of two lines representing the slope at the fruit distal end .
angle between intersection of two lines representing the slope of the proximal fruit end .
distal fruit end width / mid width ratio .
fruit end indented area / total fruit area .
distal fruit end protruded area / total fruit area .
the ratio of the fruit width at the proximal end to the width mid - height .
proximal fruit end indented area / total fruit area .
the mass of the fruit measured in grams .
obsolete .replaced by parent term sp:0000008 flower morphology .
the area of the fruit in cm^2 .
the length of the fruit .
the maximum perimeter of the fruit in cm .
the width of the fruit .
the number of locules in the fruit .
the area of the placenta .
the proportion of the 2d area of the red color epicarp out of the total epicarp area visible from a top view of the proximal fruit end .
the area of the pericarp  ( cm^2 )  .
the sum of the areas of the septum and the pericarp in cm^2 .
fruit bumpiness index .the standard deviation of distances  ( d )  from the center of the fruit  ( assuming all pixels have equal mass )  to the perimeter ,  multiplied by 100 .
average seed weight in grams
average number of seeds per fruit .
number of fruits per plant .
flower related traits and phenotypes .
count of the number of flowers per one inflorescence .
visual estimation of fruit glossiness 0 - 3 scale .
visual estimation of fruit firmness 0 - 4 scale .
number of days to opening of third inflorescence after transplanting .
estimation of radial fruit cracking 0 - 5 scale
a measure of how many flowers develop into fruit .
the width measured at half of the fruits height in cm .
the maximum width of the fruit in cm .
the height measured at half of the fruit width in cm .
the maximum length of the fruit in cm .
obsolete .replaced by parent term sp:0000015  ( disease and stress response )  .
the ratio of the average height of the shoulder points above the proximal end point to maximum height .
if the area of the fruit is greater below mid - height than above it ,  horizontal asymmetry obovoid is the average distance  ( res_h )  between a horizontal line through the fruit at mid - height and the midpoint of the fruit height at each width .
if the area of the fruit is greater above mid - height than below it ,  horizontal asymmetry ovoid is the average distance  ( res_h )  between a horizontal line through the fruit at mid - height and the midpoint of the fruit height at each width .
area ellipse  /  total fruit area .
the total soluble solids in the fruit  ( usually sugars and acids )  .
citric acid content in the fruit .
the metabolites present in the fruit .
malic acid content in the fruit .
glutamic acid content .
the ph of the fruit .
the total content of organic acids .
the total acid content .
fasciated fruit shape .multipe locules .
determinate growth of plant branches terminating with an inflorescence .
semi - determinate growth of plant branches producing more inflorescences than determinate plants ,  but eventually terminating .
ineterminate growth of plant branches .
the distal end of the fruit  ( tip )  .
the proximal end of the fruit  ( shoulders )  .
the color of the distal fruit end .
the color of the proximal fruit end  ( shoulders )  .
the leaf vascular tissue .
epidermal layer of a tuber .
the color of the tuber epidermal layer .
the texture of the tuber epidermal layer .
the flesh layer of the tuber .
the color of the tuber flesh layer .
the pattern of pigmentation of the tuber flesh .
a structure on the tuber surface that can sprout .
the depth of the tuber eye .
phenotype measured using part of the sporophyte ,  which is composed of the stems and leaves ,  and includes shoot apical meristems .
the axial system of plants that bears leaves and buds .
erect plant growth habit .
semi erect plant growth habit .
spreading plant growth habit .
after - harvest quality .
the total yield of the harvest .
the pattern of the tuber pigmentation .
the morphological characteristics of the tuber .
the shape of the tuber .
the physical size of the tuber .
a phenotype of the entire plant ,  including roots ,  shoots and leaves ,  at any stage of its life cycle .
an assessment of the maturity of the shoot  ( vine )  .
an assesment of the shoot at an early stage of maturity .
an assesment of the shoot at a mid stage of maturity .
an assesment of the shoot at a late stage of maturity .
assessment of the shoot maturity 120 days after pollination  ( dap )  .
assessment of the shoot maturity 95 days after pollination  ( dap )  .
the overall appearance of the tuber .
sucrose content in mg / g fresh weight .
glucose content in mg / g fresh weight .
the mass of the tuber .
weight in air  /   ( weight in air  - weight in water )  .
weight in air  /   ( weight in air  - weight in water )  measured at the time of harvest .
weight in air  /   ( weight in air  - weight in water )  measured at storage .
a scale to measure the propensity of tubers to sprout in the soil under high temperatures .
quality of processed plant product ,  typically used by the food industry .
the color of a fried chip .
an estimate for the chip color .
a measurement of the chip color with a colorimeter at a specific wavelength .
leaf length from the apex to the basal zone in cm .
vine 100% dead
vine starting to senesce  ( yellowing evident )  .
netted skin texture .
smooth skin texture .
slight net skin texture .
partial russet skin texture .
heavy russet skin texture .
moderate russet skin texture .
light russet skin texture .
moderately smooth skin texture .
very smooth skin texture .
small tuber size .
small - medium tuber size .
medium tuber size .
medium - large tuber size .
large tuber size .
very poor tuber appearance .
poor tuber appearance .
fair tuber appearance .
good tuber appearance .
green vine ,  done flowering .
green vine ;  some flowers yet in bloom .
full bloom with buds evident as well .
protruding tuber eyes .
shallow tuber eyes .
intermediate tuber eye depth .
deep tuber eyes .
very deep tuber eyes .
tuber skin pigment pattern has eyes .
tuber skin pigment pattern has eyebrows .
tuber skin pigment pattern is splashed .
tuber skin pigment pattern is scattered see potato cooperators guide figure 13 .
tuber skin pigment pattern is scattered see potato cooperators guide figure 13 .
tuber skin pigment pattern is stippled see potato cooperators guide figure 13 .
compressed shape .see potato cooperators guide ,  figure 14 .
round shape .see potato cooperators guide ,  figure 14 .
oval shape .see potato cooperators guide ,  figure 14 .
long tuber shape .see potato cooperators guide ,  figure 14 .
elongated tuber shape .see potato cooperators guide ,  figure 14 .
between very early and early .
between very early and early .
between early and mid - season .
between late and very late .
erect plant growth habit .close to 90 degrees .
erect plant growth habit .between 90 - 45 degrees
semi - erect plant growth habit .45 degrees .
spreading plant growth habit .less than 30 degrees
spreading plant growth habit .less than 15 degrees
spreading plant growth habit .zero degrees .
small to small - medium tuber size .
small - medium to medium tuber size .
medium to medium - large tuber size .
medium - large to large tuber size .
very poor to poor tuber appearance .
good to excellent tuber appearance .
poor to fair tuber appearance .
fair to good tuber appearance .
grams of citric acid per 100ml .
the proportion of the 2d area of the red color epicarp out of the total epicarp area visible from a top view of the proximal fruit end .
percentage of surface area with hue angle between 0 - 50 on a 0 - 360 scale .
percentage of surface area with hue angle between 70 - 100 on a 0 - 360 scale .
measurement of the color red of the cross section on rgb scale .
measurement of the color green of the cross section on rgb scale .
measurement of the color blue of the cross section on rgb scale .
the average l value of all the pixels in cielab color space .
the average 'a' value of all the pixels in cielab color space .
the average 'b' value of all the pixels in cielab color space .
a measure of brightness .average luminosity of all the pixels in the cross section .
hue is a measure of color in cielab colorspace .
chroma is a measure of saturation in cielab colorspace .
the stalk of an inflorescence ;  that part of the inflorescence below the first flower or inflorescence branch and above the last foliage leaf / pair of foliage leaves .
the angle between best - fit lines drawn through the fruit perimeter on either side of the proximal end point .
the angle between best - fit lines drawn through the fruit perimeter on either side of the proximal end point .
pericarp thickness in cm .
the seed begins germinating inside the fruit .
the ratio of the height at which the maximum width occurs ,  to the maximum height .
sucrose measured in the field  ( mg / g fresh weight )  .
sucrose measured in storage  ( mg / g fresh weight )  .
glucose measured in the field  ( mg / g fresh weight ) 
glucose measured in the field  ( mg / g fresh weight )  .
potato fry color rating based on reflectance measured from light to dark .
net dry weight  ( after 1 week in oven )  divided by net fresh weight of the fruit and multiplied by 100 .
the area of the fruit columella and placenta in cm^2 .
number of cell layers in the tomato pericarp in axial abaxial axis .
size of the biggest tomato cells in the pericarp in um^2 .
the height of the full grown plant in cm .
the height of the plant until the first inflorescence in cm
the height of the plant until the last inflorescence in cm
count of the number of inflorescences .
the width of the stem in mm
stem width between 2nd and 3rd inflorescence ,  measured in mm at complete developmental stage .
stem width between 3rd and 4th inflorescence ,  measured in mm at complete developmental stage .
count the number of flowers in the second inflorescence .
count the number of flowers in the third inflorescence .
count sepals per flower .
count petals per flower .
average length of petals from a representative flower per plant .
average width of petals from a representative flower per plant .
average length of sepals from a representative flower per plant .
average width of sepals from a representative flower per plant .
length of the anthers in cm .
length of the pistil in cm .
length of the ovary in cm .
the height measured along a curved line through the fruit ,  passing through the midpoints of opposing pairs of points on either side of the distal and proximal points .
the ratio of curved height to the width of the fruit at mid - curved - height ,  as measured perpendicular to the curved height line .
the distance between the 1st and the 10th leaf in cm .
the distance from the stem to the last flower along the rachis of the inflorescence .
epicarp 'l' color value was recorded in a point close to pistil scar .
epicarp 'a' color value was recorded in a point close to pistil scar .
epicarp 'b' color value was recorded in a point close to pistil scar .
number of primary leaflets per leaf .
number of secondary leaflets per leaf .
traits related to leaf habit .
description of the way the leaves are held naturally .
anthocyanin content in the stem of mature plants .
the common position of the petals of fully opened flowers .
stamen color of fully opened flowers .
the position of the style compared to the stamens .
historic terms  -  avoid using for future trials / experiments .
color observation of immature green fruit .
fruit color of the epicarp .
the color of the fruit epidermis .
scar width at the widest part of the pedicel scar .
presence of longitudinal stripes on immature fruits .
the extent of dissection in a fully opened leaf .
the outline of fully opened leaf .
the angle between best - fit lines drawn through the fruit perimeter on either side of the proximal end point .
an arrangement of ribs surrounding the calyx end of a full size fruit .
historic phenotype values for fruit size .
phenotype values for fruit shape .
scored in mature green fruit .
0 - 2 score  ( 0:pimpinellifolium ,  1:standard ,  2:double feathered )  .
terms used historically to describe leaf complexity mutations .
historic terms for describing plant habit mutations .
0 - determinate ,  1 - semi - determinate ,  2 - indeterminate .
historic values for leaf color mutations .
3:light green ,  5:medium green ,  7:dark green .
historic phenotypic values for inflorescence structure used for describing mutations .
1: uniparous ,  2: fishbone ,  3: forked ,  4 -  irregular .
scored when the inflorescence is completely developed .
historic values used to describe flower color mutants .
3: pale yellow ,  5: yellow ,  7: yellow - orange .
0: uniform ,  3: light green ,  5:  medium green ,   7: dark green .
1: dot ,  3: linear ,  5: star ,  7: irregular .
0: not present ,  3: low ,  5: intermediate ,  7: severe .
