biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
the anterior division of the spider body .
the posterior division of the spider body .
the outer non - cellular layer of the integument formed by the epidermis .
the dorsal shield of the prosoma .
first opisthosomal segment ,  the narrowed connection between prosoma and opisthosoma .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
finger - like or conical silk spinning appendages located at the posterior end of the opisthosoma .
a small lobe posterior to the spinnerets which bears the anal opening .
a temporally defined period of development of an organism .
any of the two main divisions of the whole organism formed from groups of segments .
an anatomical structure that consists of organs and organ subclasses responsible for certain body functions .
light sensing organ with a single lens .
the anterior portion of the carapace ,  bearing the eyes ,  sometimes delimited posteriorly by marked thoracic furrows .
the posterior portion of the carapace ,  sometimes delimited anteriorly by marked thoracic furrows .
the central depression in the carapace representing the invagination of the carapace where the stomach muscles attach .
the anterior appendages of a spider  ( the jaws )  consisting of a large basal segment  ( paturon )  and an apical fang .
the palp of the female .
appendage of prosoma ,  between the palp and leg 2 .
appendage of prosoma ,  between the leg 1 and leg 3 .
appendage of prosoma ,  between the leg 2 and leg 4 .
most posterior appendage of prosoma .
ventral sclerite on the pedicel .
the dorsal sclerite on the pedicel ,  or lorum .
the booklung of the second opisthosomal segment .
an often sclerotized and well - defined area in the median epigastric area that contains the copulatory openings .
a collective term for the internal elements of the female genitalia .
the area just anterior to the epigastric fold and between the booklungs in male spiders ,  often bearing epiandrous spigots .
the respiratory structure homologous to the posterior booklung ,  which may be present as a booklung developed in full or in diverse grades of reduction ,  or as a  ( lateral )  trachea .
the spiracle of the posterior tracheal system .
a transverse groove or fold across the anterior ventral part of the opisthosoma ,  delimiting the second and third opisthosomal segments .
the anterior median opisthosomal appendage ,  which may be present as a spinneret in some mesothelae ,  or reduced to the cribellum or colulus in araneomorphae ;  it is absent in mygalomorphae .
the lateral spinneret of the fourth opisthosomal segment .
the median spinneret of the fifth opisthosomal segment .
the lateral spinneret of the fifth opisthosomal segment .
a small sclerite at the base of the chelicera  ( under the clypeus )  .
the space between the anterior edge of the carapace and the anterior eyes .
the dorsal sclerite of the anal tubercle .
the ventral sclerite of the anal tubercle .
the organ system of ectodermal origin consisting of cuticle and epidermis .
the elements in the second and third segment of the opisthosoma of adult females ,  which are involved in copulation ,  sperm storage and fertilization .
the palp of the adult male ,  modified ,  with a copulatory organ attached to the tarsus .
the movable body of the seta ,  articulated on the setal socket .
the median of the anterior row .
the lateral eye of the anterior row .
the median eye of the posterior row .
the lateral eye of the posterior row .
the posterior margin of the carapace on top of the pedicel .
a cord of silk composed by more than one silk fiber .
a single silk thread ,  produced by a single spigot .
a segment of the opisthosoma .
the ventral part of the second opisthosomal segment ,  between the pedicel and the epigastric furrow .
a tentative term for the ventral opisthosomal area between the epigastric fold and the spinnerets .
the part of the respiratory system corresponding to the third segment of the opisthosoma ,  including the posterior booklungs ,  tracheae and its derivations .
the booklung of the third opisthosomal segment .
a depression on the clypeus with glandular tissue .
a depression on the side of the carapace ,  above the palp ,  with pores ,  presumable gland openings .
the paired respiratory structure homologous to the 3rd opisthosomal entapophysis ,  which may be present as a median trachea .
a paired trachea arising between the two lateral respiratory structures .
the entapophysis of the third opisthosomal segment .
the apical segment of a chelicera ,  bearing the opening of the venom gland .
the basal segment of a chelicera .
the spiracle of the posterior booklung .
a leaf of the posterior booklung .
a small sclerite on the posterior end of the intercheliceral articulation ,  usually matching a small concavity on each paturon .
the longitudinal joint between the two chelicerae .
the basal ,  1st segment of the female palp .
the 2nd segment of the female palp ,  between coxa and femur .
the 3rd segment of the female palp ,  between trochanter and patella .
the 4th segment of the female palp ,  between femur and tibia .
the 5th segment of the female palp ,  between patella and tarsus .
the 6th segment of the female palp ,  between tibia and pretarsus .
a claw on the palp .
a paired ,  slit - like opening in the heart wall through which the hemolymph can enter the lumen of the heart .
the median spinneret of the fourth opisthosomal segment .
the coxa of the leg 1 .
the trochanter of leg 1 .
the femur of leg 1 .
the patella of leg 1 .
the tibia of leg 1 .
the metatarsus of leg 1 .
the tarsus of leg 1 .
a claw on the leg 1 .
the coxa of the leg 2 .
the trochanter of leg 2 .
the femur of leg 2 .
the patella of leg 2 .
the tibia of leg 2 .
the metatarsus of leg 2 .
the tarsus of leg 2 .
a claw on the leg 2 .
the coxa of the leg 3 .
the trochanter of leg 3 .
the femur of leg 3 .
the patella of leg 3 .
the tibia of leg 3 .
the metatarsus of leg 3 .
the tarsus of leg 3 .
a claw on the leg 3 .
the coxa of the leg 4 .
the trochanter of leg 4 .
the femur of leg 4 .
the patella of leg 4 .
the tibia of leg 4 .
the metatarsus of leg 4 .
the tarsus of leg 4 .
a claw on the leg 4 .
the anterior portion of the gut ,  of ectodermal origin and lined with cuticle .
a very short ,  flat field of spigots between the anterior lateral spinnerets .
each of the prosomal excretory glands discharging on the leg coxae .
a raised sector of the cuticle bearing setae ,  between the anterior lateral spinnerets .
a spigot on the anterior median spinneret .
a lateral respiratory structure in form of tube .
the only article of posterior median spinneret ,  bearing the spinning field .
the basal article of anterior lateral spinneret .
the median article of anterior lateral spinneret .
the most distal article of anterior lateral spinneret ,  bearing the spinning field .
the spinning field of the anterior lateral spinneret .
the spinning field of the posterior median spinneret .
the basal article of the posterior lateral spinneret .
the most distal article of posterior lateral spinneret ,  bearing the spinning field .
the spinning field of the posterior lateral spinneret .
the central pumping organ of the circulatory system ,  located dorso - medially in the anterior part of the opisthosoma within a pericardial sinus .
the portion of the midgut contained in the opisthosoma .
a pocket arising dorsally on the posterior part of the midgut where the excrements accumulate .
each of the lateral sclerotized plates on the epigyne ,  ectal to the epigynal fold .
the median sclerotized plate on the epigyne ,  between the epigynal folds .
a copulatory duct in the anterior section of the female genitalia .
the orifice leading to the copulatory duct in entelegyne condition .
the fertilization duct in the anterior section of the female genitalia ,  connecting with the uterus externus or bursa .
a hollow sclerotized structure of the female genitalia of entelegyne spiders ,  used for the storage of sperm .
a delimited patch of glandular pores on the spermathecae of entelegyne spiders .
a hollow ,  blind sclerotized structure of the female genitalia of entelegyne spiders ,  usually connected by a duct to the anterior copulatory duct .
the segment of duct between the primary and secondary spermatheca .
a nonfunctional ,  only partially formed ,  i .e .
small glands with a cuticular duct ,  discharging through a pore on the epigynal plate .
the basal ,  1st segment of the male palp .
the base of a spigot ,  wider than the apical shaft .
the 2nd segment of the male palp ,  between coxa and femur .
the 3rd segment of the male palp ,  between trochanter and patella .
the 4th segment of the male palp ,  between femur and tibia .
the 5th segment of the male palp ,  between patella and tarsus .
the distal ,  elongate part of the spigot ,  with a orifice at the tip through which the silk is extruded .
a process on the dorsal surface of the male palpal tibia .
a process on the prolateral surface of the male palpal tibia .
a process on the retrolateral surface of the male palpal tibia .
a process on the ventral surface of the male palpal tibia .
the tarsus ,  6th and last segment of the male palp connected with the tibia .
the tarsal organ of the male palpal tarsus .
the base of major ampullate gland spigot .
each of the chemosensory setae on the male palpal tarsus .
any of the apical setae on the male palpal cymbium .
the concave ventral surface of the male palpal cymbium ,  where the copulatory bulb is attached .
the retrolateral margin of the alveolus .
the prolateral margin of the alveouls .
a process on the retrolateral - basal sector of the cymbium .
a process on the dorsal surface of the cymbium .
the genital structure of the male spider containing the sperm reservoir and attached to the palpal tarsus ;  rarely fused to the tarsus ,  as in some oonopidae ,  from which it can be differentiated by lacking setae  .
a strongly sclerotized and thickened region within the wall of the basal hematodochal membrane .
the membrane connecting the genital bulb to the tarsus .
the basal sclerite of the bulb ,  connected to the cymbium by the basal hematodocha .
the blind end of the spermophor in the subtegulum .
the middle sclerite of the male palp ,  that contains the sperm duct and bears the embolus .
the membrane connecting the tegulum to the subtegulum .
the division of the copulatory bulb distal to the median division ,  articulated to the tegulum by a terminal hematodocha .
the intromittent sclerite of the male copulatory bulb ,  where the spermophor discharges .
the tube inside the copulatory bulb containing the sperm .
a sclerite of the copulatory bulb arising from the tegulum .
a sclerite of the male palp inserted in the tegulum .
the membrane connecting the embolic division with the tegulum .
a sclerotized piece inserted on another sclerotized structure of the copulatory bulb through a membranous joint .
the shaft of major ampullate gland spigot .
the base of the piriform gland spigot .
a large basal condyle on the ectal surface of the paturon ,  contacting with the margin of the carapace .
the anterior margin of the cheliceral furrow in araneomorphae  ( mesal margin in mygalomorphae )  .
the posterior margin of the cheliceral furrow in araneomorphae  ( ectal margin in mygalomorphae )  .
a gland in the paturon of the chelicera ,  discharging secretion through a small field patch of pores on the fang furrow ,  opposing the venom outlet .
a file on the ectal side of the paturon ,  used in conjunction with palpal femoral thorns to produce stridulation .
the shaft of piriform gland spigot .
the shaft of an aciniform gland spigot on the posterior lateral spinneret .
the retina of the anterior median eye .
the tapetum of the anterior lateral eye .
the tapetum of the posterior median eye .
the tapetum of the posterior lateral eye .
the orifice in the fang tip where the venom gland discharges .
a row of tiny teeth along the anterior edge of the endite .
a cluster of plumous ,  curved setae arising from the dorso - distal surface of the endite .
a gland in the maxilla ,  discharging secretion through a small field patch of pores ,  usually on the dorsal side of the endite ,  sometimes on its mesal surface .
the base of an aciniform gland spigot of posterior lateral spinneret .
any of the ventral setae on the female palpal tarsus .
any of the apical setae on the female palpal tarsus .
each of the chemosensory setae on the female palpal tarsus .
the retrocoxal hymen of leg 1 .
the base of a cylindrical gland spigot of the posterior lateral spinneret .
the shaft of a cylindrical gland spigot of the posterior lateral spinneret .
the shaft of a modified gland spigot of posterior lateral spinneret .
the base of the modified gland spigot of posterior lateral spinneret .
the base of a paracribellar gland spigot of the posterior lateral spinneret .
the shaft of a paracribellar gland spigot of the posterior lateral spinneret .
the shaft of a gland spigot on the posterior lateral spinneret .
the base of a gland spigot on the posterior lateral spinneret .
a flanking spigot in the triad of araneoid spiders .
any of the tactile hairs on the prosoma appendages .
small setae without innervation ,  bent in an obtuse angle just after the socket ;  can be of several shapes ,  including cylindrical ,  feathery ,  or flat .
tenent seta on ventral or lateral surfaces on appendages .
the socket of the scopular seta .
each of the barbs with expanded tips on the tenent surface of the scopular seta .
each of the tenent setae composing the claw tuft .
the base of the claw tuft setal shaft ,  just above its insertion on the socket .
each of the barbs with expanded tips on the tenent surface of the claw tuft seta .
a proclaw on leg 1 .
a retroclaw on leg 1 .
an inferior claw on leg 1 .
a proclaw on leg 2 .
a retroclaw on leg 2 .
an inferior claw on leg 2 .
a proclaw on leg 3 .
a retroclaw on leg 3 .
an inferior claw on leg 3 .
a proclaw on leg 4 .
a retroclaw on leg 4 .
an inferior claw on leg 4 .
a patch of curved thick setae ,  usually arranged in one or more rows ,  on the dorsal - retrolateral side along metatarsus iv of cribellate spiders .
each of the individual setae composing the calamistrum .
an apical ,  ventral prolateral macroseta proximal to the membranous division at base of claws .
a comb of thick setae on tarsus 4 .
a palpal femoral thorn on the female palp .
a cluster of thick setae on the side of the endite ,  the chelicera or the coxa i ,  used for stridulation .
the base of an aciniform gland spigot of posterior median spinneret .
the shaft of an aciniform gland spigot on the posterior median spinneret .
the base of a cylindrical gland spigot of the posterior median spinneret .
the area of opisthosomal cuticle just ventral to the booklung ,  usually more sclerotized and with a different sculpture than the neighboring opisthosomal cuticle .
a leaf of the anterior booklung .
each of the hollow cuticular columns arising from the ventral cuticle of the booklung leaf ,  which prevents the collapsing of the leaf .
the shaft of a cylindrical gland spigot of the posterior median spinneret .
a spigot on the male epiandrum .
a spigot on the anterior lateral spinneret .
each of the large spigots on the anterior lateral spinnerets ,  used for draglines and structural threads .
a partly sclerotized sector on the spinning field of the anterior lateral spinneret ,  bearing the major ampullate gland spigots and associated sensilla .
a cuticle strain sensor on the major ampullate field .
each of the many spigots on the anterior lateral spinnerets ,  used to cement the attachment of ampullate threads to each other and to the substratum .
a spigot on the posterior median spinneret .
an ampullate gland spigot on the posterior median spinneret .
a aciniform gland spigot located on a posterior median spinneret .
a cylindrical gland spigot on the posterior median spinneret .
a aciniform gland spigot located on a posterior lateral spinneret .
a cylindrical gland spigot on the posterior lateral spinneret .
a relatively large spigot ,  usually forming part of a triad in the posterior lateral spinnerets .
a paracribellar gland spigot located on the posterior lateral spinneret .
a functional group of spigots on the posterior lateral spinneret ,  formed by one modified spigot flanked by two spigots .
a paracribellar gland spigot located on the posterior median spinneret .
the end of the embolus containing the sperm outlet .
the orifice on the embolus tip where the spermophor discharges .
a palpal femoral thorn on the male palp .
the socket of the palpal femoral thorn .
the base of the minor ampullate gland spigot .
the shaft of the minor ampullate gland spigot .
any of the setae on the prosoma appendages .
each of the many gland spigots on the cribellum .
a spigot on the posterior lateral spinneret .
a seta on the anal tubercle .
the base of a paracribellar gland spigot on the posterior median spinneret .
a generalized term for a pouch in the anterior section of the female genitalia ,  arising internally from the epigastric fold or uterus externus .
the shaft of a paracribellar gland spigot on the posterior median spinneret .
an apodeme arising from the posterior wall of the epigastric furrow .
a chitinized sac arising from the posterior wall of the uterus externus .
the distal part of the uterus ,  lined by cuticle and opening into the gonopore .
a sclerotized process on the male palpal patella .
a sensory seta with an open tip .
a flat sclerite with a distal free end on the dorsal side of the labrum of araneomorph spiders  ( except hypochilus )  .
the upper lip  ( usually covered by the chelicerae and not easily visible )  .
the anterior median extension of the sternum .
a sigilla on the posterior lateral corner of the labium ,  where an extension of the endosternite attaches .
the ventral sclerite of the prosoma .
a sigilla on the lateral of sternum ,  where an extension of the endosternite attaches .
the base of a gland spigot on the posterior median spinneret .
the shaft of a gland spigot on the posterior median spinneret .
each of the triangular sclerotized extensions from the sternum ,  their tips pointing to the middle of the coxa bases .
each of the triangular sclerotized extensions from the sternum ,  between the coxae .
the base of the aggregate gland spigot .
the shaft of the aggregate gland spigot .
a superior claw on leg 1 .
the area between the carapace and the sternum ,  where the leg coxae articulate .
a small horizontal sclerite on the pleural area that may occur between two coxae .
each of the small horizontal sclerites on the pleural area ,  between the coxae and the carapace .
the portion of the midgut contained in the prosoma .
a finger - like extension of the anterior midgut ,  often extending into a leg coxa .
a seta on the opisthosoma .
a scale on the opisthosomal cuticle .
a cusple on the endites of some mygalomorphae .
the sigilla on the dorsum of the opisthosoma ,  where a dorso - ventral opisthosomal muscle inserts .
a hygroreceptor and thermosensory organ situated on the dorsal side of the leg and palpal tarsi .
a group of tenent setae covering surfaces on appendages .
a paired cluster of tenent setae on the feet of many vagrant spiders ,  which may arise from a patch solidly integrated with the surrounding cuticle or may be inserted on an articulate plate  ( the claw tuft plate )  .
a sensory seta on the dorsal surfaces of legs and palps ,  specialized in detecting air movement .
a superior claw on leg 2 .
a large articulated seta ,  with thick and long shaft and robust socket .
a process on the retrolateral margin of the cymbium ,  midway between the base and the tip .
the outer layer of the egg ,  composed of non - cellular secretion ,  produced by the female genital tract .
a structure made of silk fibers or glue .
a complex silk structure composed by fibers from multiple gland spigot types: cribellar fibers ,  axial lines ,  and often a reserve wrap .
a cribellar silk fiber composing the adhesive mat of the cribellate silk band .
a silk cable of major ampullate fibers .
the patch of silk produced by the piriform gland spigots to attach the ampullate fibers to the substrate .
a layer of silk fibers on the eggsac .
the sticky line composed by dry axial fibers and a viscous glue as in the araneoid spiral .
a cuticular projection on the palpal trochanter of the postembryo ,  that helps piercing the chorion during eclosion .
a network of piriform glue - coated fibres ,  which cement the dragline in the central part of the disc and are attached to the substrate in the lateral parts of the disc .
a female gamete where meiosis has progressed to metaphase ii and is able to participate in fertilization .
the spiracle of the anterior booklung .
the gland on the chelicera or carapace that produced the venom injected through the fang .
circular impressions or dimples on the opisthosoma and sternum of some spiders representing points of muscle attachment and endoskeletal attachments .
an appendage of the prosoma .
a superior claw on leg 3 .
a superior claw on leg 4 .
appendage of prosoma ,  between the chelicerae and leg i .
an eye where the retina receives the light indirectly ,  reflected by the tapetum .
light reflecting crystalline structure behind the retinal cells of the secondary eyes .
a generic term for pre - hatching stages .
the groove of the chelicera into which the fang closes .
very short macroseta ,  often with a blunt tip .
the socket of the trichobothria .
the shaft of the trichobothria .
the socket of the macroseta .
the shaft of the macroseta .
each of the tiny cuticular projections on the setal shafts .
a gland located in the tibia of leg 1 .
the cuticle of the opisthosoma .
the dorsal sclerite corresponding to a segment in the opisthosoma .
the ventral sclerite corresponding to a segment in the opisthosoma .
an articulate cuticular outgrowth ,  often inervated to conform a mechanical or chemical sensillium .
the cuticular alveolus and surrounding rim where the setal shaft articulates .
a specialized seta of some theraphosidae spiders ,  with a basal breakage zone .
the shaft of a tactile hair on prosoma appendages .
the membranous surface on the spinnerets bearing spigots .
tiny cylindrical extension of the spinnerets from which silk is extruded .
each of the small spigots on the posterior spinnerets .
a spigot found in some mygalomorphae ,  with a globose base with striae ,  as in a pumpkin .
each of the large spigots on the posterior spinnerets ,  occurring only in adult females .
a large spigot on the anterior lateral of posterior median spinnerets ,  extruding resistant fibers .
each of the spigots on the posterior spinnerets of some cribellate spiders ,  with a shaft similar to those of cribellar spigots ,  strobilate except in filistatidae .
a cuticular scar ,  morphologically singular or multiple ,  that results ,  after ecdysis ,  from a collared opening forming in the exoskeleton during proecdysis ;  the opening accommodates a silk gland duct ,  allowing it to remain attached to a spigot on the old exoskeleton during proecdysis .
the shaft of a scopular seta .
any of the four appendages of prosoma ,  behind the palp .
the basal ,  1st segment of the leg .
second segment of the leg ,  between the coxa and femur .
the 3rd segment of the leg ,  between trochanter and patella .
the 4th segment of the leg ,  between femur and tibia .
the 5th segment of the leg ,  between patella and metatarsus .
the 6th segment of the leg ,  between tibia and tarsus .
the 7th segment of the leg ,  between the metatarsus and the pretarsus .
the most apical pseudopodomere of the tarsus ,  delimited by a membrane in place of the foot slit suture .
a hook - shaped sclerotized structure arising from the leg or palpal pretarsus .
each of the paired leg tarsal claws .
the prolateral superior claw .
the retrolateral superior claw .
the median ,  unpaired claw located apically on the leg pretarsus .
the distal plate of the socket of trichobothria .
a cuticular overhang that makes contact with an opposing step in the tarsus and prevents overflexion of the tarsus - metatarsus joint .
the proximal plate of the socket of trichobothria .
an eye where the retina receives the light directly ,  as opposed to being reflected by a tapetum .
the lens of the anterior median eye .
the lens of the anterior lateral eye .
the lens of the posterior lateral eye .
the lens of the posterior lateral eye .
the external ,  transparent cuticular structure of the eye .
a medium - sized seta with curved shaft ,  usually with barbs ,  inervated by three neurons .
a scale on the carapace cuticle .
a seta with a small socket ,  bent in angle immediately after its insertion ,  so that it lies parallel to the cuticular surface .
a cusple on the labium of some mygalomorphae .
a paired traight ,  thick silk fiber in the cribellate silk band .
a paired ,  highly curled and thick silk fiber in the cribellate silk band .
a silk fiber produced through an aciniform gland spigot .
a silk fiber produced through a major ampullate gland spigot .
a silk fiber produced through a minor ampullate gland spigot .
a silk fiber produced through a paracribellar gland spigot .
a silk fiber produced through a modified gland spigot .
a silk fiber produced through a cylindrical gland spigot .
a silk fiber with glue coating produced through a piriform gland spigot .
a silk fiber produced through a cribellar gland spigot .
a modified gland spigot in araneoids .
a modified gland spigot in deinopoids .
the base of the flagelliform gland spigot .
the shaft of the flagelliform gland spigot .
the base of the pseudoflagelliform gland spigot .
the shaft of the pseudoflagelliform gland spigot .
the opisthosomal segment between carapace and epigastrium .
the opisthosomal segment between the pedicel and the epigastric furrow .
the opisthosomal segment between the epigastric furrow and the spinnerets .
the opisthosomal segment bearing the anterior spinnerets .
the opisthosomal segment bearing the posterior spinnerets .
the respiratory system lined by cuticle ,  composed by tracheae and booklungs .
a respiratory structure made of many hollow leaves lined by cuticle ,  connecting to the exterior by a spiracle .
the external opening leading to the booklung atrium .
each of the cuticular lamella of the booklung .
a space behind the booklung spiracle ,  where the booklung leaves arise .
the atrium of the posterior booklung .
the atrium of the anterior booklung .
a tracheal structure with tubular shape .
the opening of a trachea to the exterior .
a generalized tracheal structure on the 2nd or 3rd opisthosomal segment ,  may be represented as a lateral trachea or a booklung .
a generalized tracheal structure on the 2nd or 3rd opisthosomal segment ,  may be represented as a trachea or an elongate apodeme .
a ventral paired apodeme on the posterior end of the opisthosomal segment .
the part of the respiratory system corresponding to the second segment of the opisthosoma ,  including the anterior booklungs and its derivations .
a tracheal tube arising from the interpulmonary fold in the 2nd segment .
the cuticle of leg articles .
the basal part of the fang ,  between its insertion and the fang shaft .
the apical part of the fang ,  having the fang shaft serrula .
a line of denticles along the concave side of the fang .
the stereotyped movements used by cribellate spiders to card the band of cribellar fibrils using the calamistrum .
the 8th ,  most distal article of the leg ,  articulated with the tarsus and bearing the claws .
segment on the leg ,  connected to other articles or to prosoma by articulate joints .
the pretarsus of leg 1 .
the pretarsus of leg 2 .
the pretarsus of leg 3 .
the pretarsus of leg 4 .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
a small sclerite on the fang articulation ,  where the fang flexor tendon inserts .
the bulbous expansion on the trichobothrial shaft base ,  just above its insertion point .
the shaft of the claw tuft seta .
the socket of the claw tuft seta .
in entelegyne spiders the tarsal organ is protected by a capsule with a small opening .
each of the tarsal organ sensilla with rimmed pores ,  where the sensory dendrites end .
each of the discrete cells in the cuticular sculpture of rigid surfaces in spiders such as some araneoidea .
the sclerotized median piece on the pretarsus ,  where the two tendons controlling the movement of the claws are connected  ( pretarsus levator and pretarsus depressor )  .
the claw lever of leg 1 .
the claw lever of leg 2 .
the claw lever of leg 3 .
the claw lever of leg 4 .
each of the radial superficial markings on the carapace corresponding to the limits of the underlying leg muscles .
the cheliceral escort seta on the promargin .
the cheliceral escort seta on the retromargin .
each of the setae aligned on the cheliceral promargin in front of the fang base .
the 7th ,  most distal article of the female palp ,  articulated with the tarsus and containing the claw .
the claw lever of the palp .
a mechanoreceptor sensitive to strain on the cuticle .
each of the sclerites forming a ring ,  where the coxal and trochanter muscles insert .
an unsclerotized area from the retrolateral distal margin of the patella to the lyriform organs .
a group of short propiosensory setae placed at the ventral basal corners of coxae .
a propiosensor made of a group of parallel slit sensilla .
a cuticular step or ridge that makes contact with the opposing metatarsus dorsal stopper and prevents overflexion of the tarsus - metatarsus joint .
a lyriform organ placed just behind the metatarsus dorsal stopper ,  with slit sensilla perpendicular to the leg axis .
each of the small tooth forming the calamistrum seta comb .
a paired plate on the feet ,  at the side of the pretarsus ,  bearing the insertions of the claw tuft setae .
a paired lateral - ventral slit sensilla at the tip of the tarsus ,  sensitive to vibrations .
a ventral unsclerotized suture ventrally on the tarsus tip ,  uniting the foot slits from both sides .
a series of longitudinal ridges at each side on the claw lever .
each of the several long ,  elongate setae ,  with strong socket and smooth shaft ,  occurring anteriorly on the opisthosoma around the pedicel .
the rigid cuticle of prosoma and its appendages .
a barb with expanded tip that makes contact with substratum and produces adherence through molecular forces .
an anatomically distinct cluster of setae ,  such as a field ,  patch ,  comb ,  etc .
a seta with a defined patch of tenent barbs ,  such as those of the scopula or claw tuft .
a patch of chemosensory setae apically on the dorsal surface of the female palpal tarsus .
a patch of chemosensory setae apically on the dorsal surface of the male palpal tarsus  ( cymbium )  .
a seta with intermediate morphology between tenent and tactile hair ,  with acute tip and tenent barbs loosely organized on the contact side but usually not forming a pad .
the shaft of a scale .
the socket of a scale .
the apical pore in the chemosensory setal shaft ,  where the chemosensory dendrites end .
the socket of the chemosensory seta .
the shaft of the chemosensory seta .
the dorsal sclerite on the pedicel closer to the carapace .
the dorsal sclerite on the pedicel closer to the opisthosoma .
a mesh of cuticular extensions lining the booklung atrium and the base of booklung leaves .
a fold connecting the booklung atria from each side ,  lined by a mesh of cuticular extensions .
an internal prolongation of the cuticle where muscles insert .
a mesh of cuticular extensions lining the luminal side of the tracheal cuticle .
a trachea of small diameter with single cuticular wall ,  without internal mesh .
the thin cuticle of the trachea ,  across which the gas interchange occurs .
the entapophysis of the second opisthosomal segment .
the entapophysis of the fourth opisthosomal segment .
the entapophysis of the fifth opisthosomal segment .
a sensillum whose dendrites end on a pore in the cuticle ,  sensitive to its deformations .
the two spigots of the triad at each side of the modified gland spigot .
the field of piriform gland spigots on the anterior lateral spinnerets .
the distal pore of the spigot shaft from where the silk is extruded .
a flexible piece at the tip of the spigot shaft ,  delimiting the apical opening .
the opisthosomal segment bearing the anal tubercle .
an orifice on the anal tubercle where the stercoral pocket discharges .
a internal cuticular tube inside the chemosensory seta shaft ,  enclosing the dentrites ,  extending from the apical pore to about 2 / 3 of the shaft length .
any membrane that allows or actively produces movement of the copulatory bulb or of parts of it .
any of the main sections of the male copulatory bulb ,  delimited by hematodochae .
the division of the copulatory bulb between the basal and median hematodochae ,  containing the subtegulum .
the division of the copulatory bulb between the median and terminal hematodochae ,  containing the tegulum ,  conductor and median apophysis .
a sclerite connecting the embolus with the tegulum through the terminal hematodocha ,  and containing the spermophor .
any of the sclerotized processes arising in the cymbium .
any of the setae on the male palpal cymbium .
a sclerotized process on the male palpal tibia .
a sclerotized process on the male palpal femur .
a process on the middle of the ventral surface of the male palpal femur .
a process on the ventral surface of the male palpal femur near its base .
a process on the ventral surface of the male palpal femur near its distal end .
a process on the dorsal surface of the male palpal patella .
a process on the retrolateral surface of the male palpal patella .
a gland inside the male palpal tibia ,  discharging through a pore on a tibial process .
a elongate depression forming a canal on the surface of cymbium .
a ventral longitudinal groove on the tip of the cymbium .
a longitudinal groove on the retrolateral surface of cymbium .
the cuticular wall of the spermophor .
a sclerotized process on the embolus .
a proximal process on the dorsal surface of the male palpal tibia .
a distal process on the ventral surface of the male palpal tibia .
the cuticular duct of the epigynal cuticular gland .
the pore on the epigynal plate where the epigynal cuticular gland discharges .
each of the two folds on the epigyne ,  between the lateral lobes and the median field .
a spermatheca on the anterior section of the female genitalia .
a sclerotized hollow tube connecting structures of the female genitalia ,  usually for the transit of sperm .
the segment of duct connecting the accessory bulb to the copulatory duct ,  occasionally directly to the spermatheca .
a hardened plug obstructing the female copulatory opening ( s )  .
a gland discharging secretion through pores in the posterior diverticulum .
a generic term for hollow cuticular structures in the female genitalia ,  whose presumed function is sperm storage .
a receptacle arising from the anterior wall of the epigastric furrow ,  anterior to the uterus externus .
a gland with a cuticular duct discharging in the anterior receptacle .
a small invagination ,  often sclerotized ,  just posterior to the anterior booklung spiracle .
the section of the female genitalia anterior to the uterus externus .
the section of the female genitalia posterior to the uterus externus .
a pore on the accessory bulb where a gland duct is connected .
the cuticular duct connected to a pore on the accessory bulb .
a gland discharging secretion through pores on the spermathecal wall .
a generic term for glands discharging their products into female genital elements .
a gland discharging through a pore on the accessory bulb .
the short basal article of the cribellum ,  visible as a sclerotized band bearing setae .
the spinning field of the cribellum .
a seta on the cheliceral paturon ,  densely covered by barbs as in a pipe cleaner ,  except at the base ,  which is smooth .
a cheliceral whisker seta arising near the articulation of the fang ,  bent near its base and accompanying the fang .
the internal layer of the eye containing the photosensitive visual cells and the pigment cells .
the layer of transparent cells between the eye lens and the retina .
the region of the cephalic area bearing the eyes .
the globular or conical stucture including all internal elements of the eye .
the cup of the anterior median eye .
the cup of the anterior lateral eye .
an unsclerotized ,  often elevated patch ,  on the retrolateral surface of the coxa .
the shaft of the aciniform gland spigot .
the base of the aciniform gland spigot .
the base of a cylindrical gland spigot .
the shaft of a cylindrical gland spigot .
the opening of the gonads located between second and third segment of the opisthosoma .
the silken sac made by the female to retain together the eggs .
the cup of the posterior lateral eye .
the cup of the posterior median eye .
the paired apodemes extending posteriorly from the lorum into the opisthosoma .
each of the slit sensillum of the pedicel sensilla stripe .
the paired apodemes extending anteriorly from the lorum into the prosoma .
each of the paired series of slit sensilla at the base of the lorum posterior apodeme .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
the reproductive system of the adult male .
the reproductive system of the adult female .
the modified area between uterus externus and uterus internus with interlocking ridges .
the male gonad that produces and release sperm .
the tube connected to the distal end of the testis and opens into the proximal part of the unpaired ejaculatory duct .
unpaired region of the male reproductive system that connects the gonopore with the deferent duct .
the unpaired duct connecting the ovaries with the gonopore .
the proximal part of the uterus ,  without a cuticular lining and continuing proximally into the oviduct .
is the part of the female reproductive system which consists of generative and somatic elements .
the elements of the adult male palp which are involved into sperm transfer .
a spermatheca in the posterior section of the female genitalia .
the fertilization duct in the posterior section of the female genitalia ,  connecting with the uterus externus or posterior diverticulum .
a copulatory duct in the posterior section of the female genitalia .
a cuticular protrusion from the median field of the epigyne .
a gland discharging secretion through pores in a copulatory duct .
a gland discharging secretion through pores in a fertilization duct .
a distinct area  ( e .g .
a short macroseta on the promargin or retromargin of the chelicerae ,  with blunt tip .
the endosternite of the opisthosomal segment 5 ,  where the muscle dilator of the anus inserts .
the first of the heart ostia .
the second of the heart ostia .
the third of the heart ostia .
the fourth of the heart ostia .
the fifth of the heart ostia .
a slik structure used to entangle preys .
a preying web with stereotyped architecture ,  composed of frame ,  radii and sticky spiral .
organ system responsible for the food uptake and processing .
for wirkner to do .
the part of the circulatory system that is composed of the central pumping organ ,  the heart ,  and arteries which emanate from it and open out into the hemolymph lacunar system .
the open part of the circulatory system ,  which irrigates the tissues .
for wirkner to do .
for wirkner to do .
the unpaired vessel that emanates from the anterior end of the heart .
the unpaired vessel that emanates from the posterior end of the heart .
a paired vessel that emanates from the heart .
the organ system used for gas exchange ,  lined by cuticle ,  composed by booklungs and tubular tracheae .
anatomical system that consists of neurons and its supporting tissues .
the condensed ganglia in the prosoma .
the nerves connecting the sensory and motor structures with the central nervous system .
a brain is a cluster of neurons .
an unpaired neuropil in the rear part of the brain .
a paired neuropil in the brain ,  mushroom - shaped .
the central body is an unpaired midline neuropil .
epithelial tube with excretory and osmoregulatory roles connected ,  to at the junction of the midgut and hindgut .
the median portion of the digestive tube ,  of mesodermal origin ,  not lined with cuticle ,  between the stomach and the stercoral pocket .
a narrow channel in the foregut ,  between the pharynx and the sucking stomach .
the most posterior part of the foregut ,  the main pump for food intake .
a gland of the spinning aparatus ,  that produces silk .
the organ system responsible for the removal of waste and excess material from the organism .
organ system which is responsible for silk production and formation .
the 3rd segment of the palp ,  between trochanter and patella .
a large silk gland with elongate lumen and long duct ,  discharging in a spigot on a anterior lateral spinneret .
a small silk gland with globular lumen and short duct ,  discharging in a spigot on an anterior lateral spinneret .
a small silk gland with globular lumen and short duct ,  discharging in a spigot on a posterior median or lateral spinneret .
a large silk gland with tubular elongate lumen ,  discharging in a spigot on a posterior median or posterior lateral spinneret of an adult female .
a large silk gland with complex lumen and long duct ,  discharging in a spigot on a posterior lateral spinneret .
a large silk gland with complex ramidied lumen ,  discharging in a spigot on a posterior lateral spinneret .
a short seta with raised base on the prolateral basal surface of the palpal femur ,  most often used for stridulation against opposing ridges on the chelicerae .
the 4th segment of the palp ,  between femur and tibia .
the 6th segment of the palp ,  between tibia and pretarsus .
the 5th segment of the palp ,  between patella and tarsus .
the 2nd segment of the palp ,  between coxa and femur .
the tube of the digestive system from the pharynx to the anus .
the most anterior part of the foregut ,  arising between the labium and labrum and leading into the esophagus .
a specialized seta at the tip of the tarsus ,  below the claws ,  with a ventral serrate side .
a sensory organ is a cluster of cells .
an outgrow of the body with articles and muscles .
a hook - like extension of the superior claws ,  grasping the folded base of a claw tuft seta .
the folded base of a claw tuft seta ,  where the claw tuft clasper locks .
a mechanism made of a claw tuft clasper in the superior claws and locking on the folded base of a claw tuft seta  ( the claw tuft seta clasping fold )  .
a comb of setae at the ventral tip of metatarsus iii and iv .
a cusple on the ventral surface of a leg .
each spherical or oval sclerotized sac connected by a thin duct to the bursa .
the tarsal organ of the female palpal tarsus .
a comb made of small tooth aligned ,  on the calamistrun seta .
the tarsal organ on the leg tarsus .
the part of the integument that is raised or projected and not articulated or delimited by conjunctiva .
the area of the integument that is weakly sclerotized ,  with thin exocuticle .
the area of the integument that is strongly sclerotised ,  with thick exocuticle and is surrounded by conjunctivae .
an area of the integument that is indented .
a mature individual ,  with fully developed sexual organs .
anatomical system that consists of muscles ,  tendons and apodemes .
the portion of tissue that is composed of contractile fibers .
a thin extension of cuticular tubes lined with epithelium ,  where a muscle inserts .
a section of an appendage ,  delimited from another article ,  or from its insertion on the body ,  by joints .
the anatomical cluster that makes a flexible articulation between articles of appendages ,  or their insertion on the body .
the joint that is operated by muscles that insert on the rim of the distal article .
the joint that is operated by muscles that do not insert on the rim of the distal article .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the chelicerae ,  labrum ,  labium ,  palpal coxae ,  and conjunctivae connecting them .
anatomical entity that has mass .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
anatomical group that has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of epithelial cell ( s )  that secrete or excrete materials not related to their ordinary metabolic needs .
a gland that discharges its secretion into the spermophor .
a gland on the copulatory bulb ,  not connected to the spermophor ,  that may be involved in the production of the mating plug .
a more or less globular enlargement of the spermophor in the radix .
the area of the integument that forms the opening of a book lung or trachea on the surface of the body .
a cuticular structure made of a file and a plectrum ,  that produce acoustic or seismic vibrations .
the part of the stridulatory organ that scrapes on the file to produce sound or vibrations .
the part of the stridulatory organ where the plectrum scrapes ,  to produce sound or vibrations .
one of the repeated divisions of the whole organism along the antero - posterior axis .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
a wide space between chelicerae and endites .
a partial or complete subdivision of the tarsus by conjunctiva .
a conical ,  sclerotized process on the promargin or retromargin of the chelicerae ,  sometimes also on the cheliceral furrow ,  as denticles .
a process on the mesal surface of the paturon ,  often keel shaped ,  extending distally ,  often meeting the fang tip to form a chela .
a cluster of thick macrosetae ,  sometimes located on a process ,  placed anteriorly near the base of the fang .
the muscle that originates on the dorsal part of the palpal tarsus and attaches through a tendon on the basal part of the copulatory bulb .
the muscle that originates in the palpal tibia and attaches through a tendon on the basal part of the copulatory bulb .
a hollow cuticular structure in the female genitalia ,  partly or completely surrounded by glandular tissue ,  that is used for sperm storage .
the duct connecting the sperm storage site in the female genitalia with the uterus externus or posterior diverticulum .
a duct in the female genitalia connecting the copulatory opening to the sperm storage site .
a large ,  elaborate process on the retrolateral side of cymbium .
a part of the linyphiid tegulum that bears the column and through which the spermophor passes .
a process on the distal end of the distal sclerotized tube or radix .
a sclerite connecting the embolus with the radix ,  and containing the spermophor .
a loose membranous flap on the concave side of the embolus .
a sclerite of the copulatory bulb arising from the tegulum ,  in addition to the median apophysis .
a transversal suture near the base of the male tibia .
a sclerotized plate in the opisthosoma .
a depression often associated with glands ,  near the ocular area .
a large silk gland with elongate lumen and long duct ,  discharging in a spigot on a posterior median spinneret .
a small silk gland with globular lumen and short duct ,  discharging in a spigot on a posterior median spinneret ,  rarely on a posterior lateral spinneret .
a very small silk gland with globular lumen and short duct ,  discharging in a spigot on the cribellum .
a large silk gland with complex lumen and long duct ,  discharging in a spigot on a posterior lateral spinneret .
a silk gland serving a pumpkiniform gland spigot .
the compound organ that makes gametes .
the anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
the portion of tissue consisting of sperm cells and secretion that is produced by the somatic cells of the male gonad and spermophor gland .
the anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
the anatomical structure that is a direct part of the cell .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
a male germ cell that develops from the haploid secondary spermatocytes .
a male germ cell that develops from spermatogonia .
an euploid male germ cell of an early stage of spermatogenesis .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
a vesicle formed of membrane or protein ,  found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a small subcellular vesicle ,  surrounded by a membrane ,  that is formed from the golgi apparatus and contains a highly concentrated protein destined for secretion .
a structure in the head of a spermatozoon that contains acid hydrolases ,  and is concerned with the breakdown of the outer membrane of the ovum during fertilization .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane or protein .
the anatomical space containing the acrosomal filament and is formed by  posterior invagination of the acrosomal vacuole .
a cellular complex consisting of acrosomal vacuole ,  acrosomal filament and subacrosomal space .
a germ cell is any biological cell that differentiates into the gametes of an organism that reproduces sexually .
a filamentous structure consisting of actin fibrils ,  originating in the subacrosomal space and extending into the nuclear canal .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
any constituent part of the cytoskeleton ,  a cellular scaffolding or skeleton that maintains cell shape ,  enables some cell motion  ( using structures such as flagella and cilia )  ,  and plays important roles in both intra - cellular transport  ( e .g .
cell that develops into or is itself a spermatozoon .
cell that develops into or is itself an egg .
a mature germ cell containing a single set of chromosomes .
a mature contractile cell ,  commonly known as a myocyte .
a non - germ cell in the testis .
blood cell of the circulating hemolymph that is involved in the cellular immune response .
a multi - nucleate cell having no internal boundaries between nuclei .
the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia  ( also called flagella )  in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the nucleus of a spermatid or sperm .
an elongation of the nucleus posterior to the base of the axoneme ,  i .e .
the part of the sperm nucleus anterior to the base of the axoneme ,  i .e .
the widen anatomical space at the anterior pole of the nucleus close  to the acrosomal vacuole .
a cellular organelle ,  found close to the nucleus in many eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of a small cylinder with microtubular walls ,  300 - 500 nm long and 150 - 250 nm in diameter .
an array of microtubules that completely covers the nucleus of a spermatid .
an array of mitochondria surrounding the most anterior part of the axoneme .
a narrow anatomical space of the nucleus that is invaginated from the anterior pole and usually located at the outer edge of  nucleus extending until the end of the posterior elongation of the nucleus .
a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
a cluster of multiple sperm joined together for motility and transport through the female reproductive tract before dissociation prior to fertilization .
an often spherical cluster of two or more individual sperm .
an orderly stack of sperm of variable number formed after spermiogenesis ,  including individualization ,  is complete .
a conjugate derived from spermatogenic processes formed by the products of a single spermatogonium remaining grouped together following spermiogenesis .
a sperm conjugate arising through post - spermatogenic mechanisms such as biomechanical interactions ,  cell - surface interactions or membrane fusion .
cluster of two or more fused or partly fused sperm cells originating from a single spermatogonium .
enlarged proximal region of the ejaculatory duct .
any products  ( droplets and matrix )  produced by the somatic cells of the male gonad and transferred into the female genitalia .
the state in which spider sperm cells are transferred into the female genitalia .
individual sperm cell surrounded by a secretion sheath .
a female germ cell that has entered meiosis .
an undifferentiated germ cell that proliferates rapidly and gives rise to oocytes .
the tube that connects the ovary with the uterus internus .
the stalk connecting the bulge containing the oocyte in the ovarian epithelium with the lumen of the ovary .
the posterior part of the digestive system derived from the ectoderm connecting the stercoral pocket with the anus .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer representing a single layer of epithelial cells that produces the cuticle .
the socket of a tactile hair .
a tube formed by the integument ,  transporting gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another .
the sum of all posterior midgut diverticles .
a branch of the posterior midgut consisting of digestive and secretory cells .
a cell of the embryo .
a cell found in the embryo before the formation of all the gem layers is complete .
diploid cell produced by the fusion of sperm cell nucleus and egg .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a generic term for stages from hatching to penultimate .
a generic term for the life stage before maturity .
the posterior indentation of the sperm nucleus .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
any constituent part of a chromosome ,  a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome .
any of the long ,  generally straight ,  hollow tubes of internal diameter 12 - 15 nm and external diameter 24 nm found in a wide variety of eukaryotic cells ;  each consists  ( usually )  of 13 protofilaments of polymeric tubulin ,  staggered in such a manner that the tubulin monomers are arranged in a helical pattern on the microtubular surface ,  and with the alpha / beta axes of the tubulin subunits parallel to the long axis of the tubule ;  exist in equilibrium with pool of tubulin monomers and can be rapidly assembled or disassembled in response to physiological stimuli ;  concerned with force generation ,  e .g .
any constituent part of the cytoplasm ,  all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
cytoplasmic bead - like structures of animal cells ,  visible by electron microscope .
a cell that is part of the nervous system .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a neuron which conveys sensory information centrally from the periphery .
a neuron which sends impulses peripherally to activate muscles or secretory cells .
any neuron having a sensory function ;  an afferent neuron conveying sensory impulses .
an efferent neuron that passes from the central nervous system or a ganglion toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes or inhibits movement .
most generally any neuron which is not motor or sensory .
a cell specialized to transduce mechanical stimuli and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
a cell specialized to detect chemical substances and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
a cell that specializes in controlled release of one or more substances .
a cell of an exocrine gland ;  i .e .
a cell involved in the elimination of metabolic and foreign toxins ,  and in maintaining the ionic ,  acid - base and water balance of biological fluids .
the first ,  paired dorso - ventral abdominal muscle .
the second ,  paired dorso - ventral abdominal muscle .
the third ,  paired dorso - ventral abdominal muscle .
the fourth ,  paired dorso - ventral abdominal muscle .
the muscle in the leg that produces a levation of the pretarsus .
the muscle in the leg that produces a depression of the pretarsus .
the tendon connecting the pretarsal depressor muscle and inserting venrally on the pretarsus .
the tendon connecting the pretarsal levator muscle and inserting dorsally on the pretarsus .
the distal part of the spider leg ,  near the claws ,  which interacts more closely with the substrate and silk cables .
the conjunctiva that is located between two articulating sclerites .
the articular surface that is convex and is inserted into the fossa of an adjacent sclerite .
the articular surface that is concave and accommodates the condyle of another sclerite .
the area of the sclerite that makes movable direct contact with another sclerite .
the article that is delimited by eudesmatic joints .
the article that is delimited by at least one adesmatic joint .
a cuticular septum dividing vertically the ring formed by the pretarsus .
a portion of cuticle making a definite structure .
a cuticular structure projecting dorsally from the pretarsus .
a cuticular structure in the podotarsite that guides the levator tendon in some spiders such as some palpimanids .
a cuticular structure arising ventrally from the cuticle of the foot of many spiders ,  usually from the internal wall of the condyles ,  may be produced into a pair of thick ,  parallel ridges that provide a canal for the depressor tendon .
a cuticular structure projecting ventrally from the pretarsus .
a cuticular structure in the form of a funnel - like sheath that covers the insertion of the levator tendon on the pretarsus .
a cuticular structure in the form of a funnel - like sheath that covers the insertion of the depressor tendon on the pretarsus .
a cuticular structure in the form of a funnel - like sheath that covers the insertion of the depressor tendon on the pretarsus .
