a pathway is a set of inter - connected  reactions and interactions whose delineation and scope are used as a model for exploring and studying ,  describing and understanding the working of and relationships between biomolecules within a context .
the various ,  enzyme controlled ,  series of reactions allowing for the conversion of materials ,  energy availability and biodegradation of xenobiotics .
the pathways where a signal  -  hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  growth factor ,  peptide ,  any molecule  -  triggers one or multiple cascades of events .
the pathways that control the processes by which a cell or organism develops ,  adjusts ,  behaves ,  responds to conditions or changes in these conditions ,  or in any manner helps promote and maintain its efficient functioning .
those metabolic reactions and pathways involved in the oxidation ,  breakdown and synthesis of carbohydrates in the tissue .
the ras superfamily consists of a diverse group of small ,  monomeric g proteins that function as molecular switches alternating between the gdp - inactive and the gtp - active bound state .
the mitogen  - activated protein kinase pathway groups several serine / threonine protein kinases mediated cascades in response to a number of extracellular stimuli .
the secreted glycoproteins of the wnt family regulate a wide spectrum of developmental processes and they are also playing important roles in the adult organism .
apoptosis is a programmed cell death pathway that is characterized by particular morphological features such as membrane blebbing and dna fragmentation .
the metabolic reactions involved in the oxidation ,  utilization and / or synthesis of lipids in the tissues .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of the primary or standard 20 amino acids found in proteins .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of nucleotides .
complex human diseases encompass a spectrum of genetic and environmental attributes that together affect the normal functioning of several molecular and cellular pathways .
neurodegenerative diseases group together a number of conditions of various and many times poorly understood origins that are characterized by the progressive loss of particular neurons ,  the formation of particular structures such as plaques and fibrils ,  and protein aggregates .
a mostly sporadic ,  late - onset condition affecting the central nervous system ,  that is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease and the most common form of dementia .
a late onset ,  mostly sporadic neurodegenerative disease characterized by the loss of motor neurons in the brain stem and spinal cord .
an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease manifesting in movement ,  cognitive and psychiatric disorders caused by the abnormal expansion of a polyglutamine  ( polyq )  stretch in the huntingtin  ( htt )  protein .
one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases that is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and the presence of cytoplasmic inclusions called lewy bodies in surrounding neurons .
prion disease  -  any of a group of fatal ,  transmissible neurodegenerative diseases caused by abnormalities of prion protein metabolism ,  which may result from mutations in the prion protein gene or from infection with pathogenic isoforms of the protein .
cardiovascular diseases represent a very broad spectrum of conditions that can also combine with diabetes and renal failure .
hypertension ,  high arterial blood pressure: various criteria for its threshold have been suggested ,  ranging from 140 mm hg systolic and 90 mm hg diastolic to as high as 200 mm hg systolic and 110 mm hg diastolic .
cardiomyopathy  -  a general diagnostic term designating primary noninflammatory disease of the heart muscle ,  often of obscure or unknown etiology and not the result of ischemic ,  hypertensive ,  congenital ,  valvular ,  or pericardial disease .
the immune response pathways mediate the defense of host cells against infection and injury .
inflammation is the cellular response of the innate immune system to infection or injury .
those metabolic reactions involved in the energy - yielding conversion of glucose to pyruvate or in the formation of glucose from non - carbohydrate precursors such as pyruvate ,  lactate ,  citric acid cycle intermediates ,  the carbon skeleton of many amino acids .
the series of chemical reactions that are central to all aerobic cells and constitute the citric acid cycle .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation glutamic acid / glutamate .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of alanine ,  aspartate and glutamate .
acetyl - coa ,  the starting material for fatty acid biosynthesis ,  can be derived from amino acid and lipid degradation or the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of purines .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of pyrimidines .
those metabolic reactions and pathways whose role is to release or provide energy .
those metabolic reactions thereby the electrons derived from the oxidation of glucose and lipids or the degradation of amino acids ,  are passed to oxygen via a series of series of spatially separated complexes .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  .
those metabolic reactions in the nitrogen cycle carried out by various microorganisms .
those metabolic reactions involving sulfur  -  a component of methionine and cysteine amino acids and of co - enzymes and vitamins .
obsolete .originally found at kegg ,  the term has since been deleted .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of bile acid  -  any of the steroid carboxylic acids derived from cholesterol .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of steroid hormones .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of fructose and mannose ,  as depicted in the kegg diagram .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of galactose  -  an aldohexose epimeric with glucose at the 4 carbon .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of pyruvate  -  a salt ,  ester ,  or anionic form of pyruvic acid .
obsolete .duplicated term .
those metabolic reactions involved in the generation of reducing equivalents and five carbon  ( pentose )  sugars .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of inositol ,  a cyclic sugar alcohol occurring in a number of stereoisomers of which the myo - inositol is the most prominent form .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of glycine ,  serine and threonine and which are intimately connected with serine being synthesized from glycine and threonine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis  ( remethylation )  ,  utilization and / or degradation of methionine ,  an essential amino acid for humans .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of cysteine ,  a non - essential amino acid that could be essential in certain cases .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of arginine  -  an essential amino acid  -  and proline  -  an amino acid that can play important roles in protein secondary structure .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of histidine ,  an essential amino acid which can act as either a proton donor or a proton acceptor .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of tyrosine  -  a non - essential amino acid produced from phenylalanine and precursor of thyroid hormones ,  catecholamines and melanin .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of phenylalanine ,  an essential amino acid .
those metabolic reactions that are involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of tryptophan  -  a dietary essential amino acid and precursor for several important compounds .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of nucleotide sugars .
a chemical combination caused by the action of light ;  specifically the formation of carbohydrates  ( with release of molecular oxygen )  from carbon dioxide and water in the chlorophyll tissue of plants and blue - green algae under the influence of light .
the pathway thereby photosynthetic organisms such as plants and cyanobacteria convert inorganic carbon  ( usually carbon dioxide )  into organic compounds  ( usually carbohydrates )  .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of fatty acids  -  any long - chain monobasic organic acid .
those signaling pathways that are involved in or mediate the various aspects of nervous system and / or brain function .
long - term potentiation  ( ltp )  is a strengthening of the synapse that can last from hours to days and months .
long term depression is a weakening of a synapse that lasts hours to days .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of ascorbate and aldarate ,  as depicted in the kegg diagram .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of glyoxylate and dicarboxylate ,  as depicted in the kegg diagram .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of propanoate  -  any salt or ester of propanoic or propionic acid .
those reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of butanoate  -  an ester or salt of  n - butyric acid .
those reactions involved in carbon dioxide fixation  -  the reductive carboxylate cycle  ( co2 fixation )   -  the conversion of atmospheric carbon dioxide to organic carbon compounds ,  as in photosynthesis .
those pathways used by methanotrophs and the methanogens that metabolize methane as the sole carbon source or as byproduct .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization or degradation of ketone bodies .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of c21 - steroid hormones .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of valine ,  leucine and isoleucine  -  the three ,  dietary essential ,  branched amino acids .
those metabolic pathways involved in the synthesis of valine ,  leucine and isoleucine  -  the three ,  dietary essential ,  branched amino acids .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of lysine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of lysine  -  an essential amino acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of phenylalanine ,  tyrosine and tryptophan and which are intimately related .
the series of metabolic reactions ,  occurring in the liver ,  by which the ammonia derived from the breakdown of amino acids combines with carbon dioxide to form urea .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of beta - alanine .
those metabolic reactions involving cyanoamino acid ,  amino acid derivatives that contain a cyanide group .
obsolete .duplicated term .
obsolete .duplicated term .
those metabolic reactions involving d - glutamine and d - glutamate as depicted in the kegg diagram .
those metabolic reactions involving d - arginine and d - ornithine as depicted in the kegg diagram .
those metabolic reactions involving d - alanine ,  the d - enantiomer of alanine .
obsolete .duplicated term .
those pathways involved in and / or controlling dna replication ,  cell cycle ,  dna repair and maintenance of genomic integrity ,  rna and protein biosynthesis .
the series of events ,  collectively known as the cell cycle ,  that underlie the replication of the genome and the segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
the series of events underlying the progression of early cell cycle into the g phase and under the control of d - type cyclins together with cdk4 and cdk6 .
the series of events underlying the transition from g1 into s phase and under the control of cyclin e / a  -  cdk2 and cyclin d - cdk4 / cdk6 complexes and their regulators .
the series of events underlying duplication of the hereditary material of the cell ,  formation of two copies of the chromosome .
the series of events underlying the second 'gap' phase of the mitotic cell cycle  -  an interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of mitosis and during which protein synthesis occurs .
the series of events underlying the transition from the g2 phase into mitosis .
the series of events underlying mitosis  ( m - phase )  ,  in turn comprised of several phases ,  involving nuclear division and cytokinesis and resulting in the formation of two daughter cells .
the series of events underlying progression out of mitosis and division into two daughter cells .
those pathways involved in the control of cell cycle progression as well as its precision and fidelity .
those pathways of dna damage response that occur during the g1 phase .
those pathways that assure the genome is replicated only once per cell cycle .
the pathway prevents cells with mis - aligned chromosomes from dividing .
the pathways involved in the repair of damaged dna .
the pathways governing and / or regulating dna transcription and gene expression .
the series of events governing the processes thereby mrna is translated into a polypeptide chain .
the raf / mek / erk signaling pathway  -  a ras activated protein kinase cascade  -  regulates diverse processes such as cell growth ,  proliferation and differentiation ,  in response to cytokines ,  hormones ,  growth factors .
a pathway that mediates or facilitates the movement of biochemical material ,  organic and inorganic substances and / or drugs .
the apoptotic pathway involving organelles ,  primarily the mitochondrion and endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  ,  and involving the pro and anti - apoptotic members of the bcl family of proteins ,  cytochrome c ,  formation of the apoptosome and activation of caspases .
members of the ras related rho family of proteins control diverse processes such as actin cytoskeletal rearrangements ,  morphogenesis of dendritic spines ,  gene expression .
the apoptotic pathway involving the death receptors mediated route of caspase activation .
those reactions involved in the breaking down of toxic chemical compounds such as oil spills ,  solvents ,  pesticides and other pollutants .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of caprolactam  -  a cyclic amide of caproic acid used to produce a type of nylon .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of bisphenol a ,  known as bpa ,  an important compound in the production of plastics .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of toluene and xylene .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of gamma - hexachlorocyclohexane ,   also known as lindane ,  used as an insecticide and suspected to be carcinogenic .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of 3 - chloroacrylic acid .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of atrazine  -  a herbicide used to kill weeds .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the aerobic pathway of benzoate degradation .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the anaerobic pathway of benzoate degradation .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of carbazole  -  a crystalline ,  slightly basic cyclic compound found in anthracene .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of fluorene  -  a colorless ,  crystalline hydrocarbon .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of ethylbenzene  -  a liquid hydrocarbon used in the manufacture of styrene and as a solvent and diluent for dyes and paints .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of nitrobenzene  -  an organic compound that occurs either as yellow crystals or yellow liquid used in the manufacture of aniline .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of styrene  -  an aromatic hydrocarbon that is colorless and oily .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of tetrachloroethene  -   ( acetylene tetrachloride )  used as solvent for fats ,  waxes ,  resins and intermediate in the synthesis of chlorinated hydrocarbons .
the hedgehog signaling pathway  ( hh )  plays important roles in vertebrate embryogenesis ,  particularly in the differentiation of the neural tube ,  in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis .
the pathway of synaptic vesicle endocytosis and neurotransmitter refill following exocytosis .
a pathway triggered by exogenous or endogenous elements ,  compounds or molecules that can be harmful to the system .
g - proteins act as signal transducers between activated receptors or other incoming signals and downstream effectors .
the series of events governing the synthesis of the large ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  precursor in the nucleolus .
the series of events governing the synthesis of protein - coding messenger rna  ( mrna )  precursor and of many classes of non - coding genes .
the series of events governing the synthesis of transport / transfer rna  ( trna )  precursor ,  the small ribosomal rrna and other small rnas .
base excision repair pathway involves the identification and removal of the damaged base followed by its replacement with the correct nucleotide and ligation of the break in the strand .
nucleotide excision repair pathway is an important mechanism for the detection of helix distorting base alterations .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of amino acids other than the common 20 amino acids found in protein .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of selenoamino acid  -  an amino acid in which a selenium atom replaces a sulfur atom .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of glutathione  -  a tripeptide that acts as an antioxidant and provides protection against reactive oxygen species .
those reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of cofactors ,  vitamins and other nutrients .
those metabolic reactions involving thiamine ,  a water - soluble vitamin of the b complex .
those metabolic reactions involving riboflavin ,  also known as vitamin b2  -  a water - soluble vitamin .
those metabolic reactions involving vitamin b6  -  a water - soluble vitamin that exists in several forms .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of biotin ,  also known as vitamin b7 or h ,  a water - soluble vitamin .
folate metabolism represents the various aspects of folate cycle and the folate mediate transfer reactions essential for several biosynthetic pathways .
those reactions involving retinol ,  a fat - soluble vitamin that is the dietary form of vitamin a and is important for bone growth and in vision .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of ubiquinone ,  also known as coenzyme q . ubiquinone is a member of the mitochondrial respiratory chain and plays important roles in cellular metabolism .
insulin ,  the peptide hormone ,  secreted by the pancreatic beta cells ,  plays essential roles in glucose and energy homeostasis .
the pathway for the atp - dependent non - lysosomal proteolysis catalyzed by the 26s proteasome and for which ubiquitylation ,  the post - translational covalent conjugation of ubiquitin to target proteins is a key signal .
obsolete .originally found at kegg ,  the term has since been deleted
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of glycans .
those reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of secondary metabolites  -  products of cellular metabolism that are not essential for ,  or not directly involved in the normal growth ,  development or reproduction of an organism .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of starch and sucrose ,  as depicted in the kegg diagram .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of amino sugars .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of triacylglycerols  -  esters of glycerols with three fatty acid molecules .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of inositol phosphate which represents all of the possible phosphorylated states of inositol .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of phospholipids  -  lipids containing phosphorus ,  including those with a glycerol backbone or a backbone of sphingosine or related substances .
those metabolic reactions involving prostaglandins  -  a family of prostanoid eicosanoids with many regulatory functions .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or  degradation of glycosaminoglycans  -  any of several high molecular weight linear polysaccharides of repeating disaccharide units .
the ras family mediated signaling pathways are primarily involved in the regulation of gene expression .
rab family mediated signaling pathways are involved in the regulation of intracellular vesicle trafficking .
ran family mediated signaling pathways are involved in nucleocytoplasmic trafficking .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of glycosylphosphatidylinositol  ( gpi )  anchor .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of ganglioside  -  any of a group of glycosphingolipids in which the polar head group on ceramide is a sialic acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of taurine and hypotaurine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of monoterpenoid .
those metabolic reactions involving pantothenic acid or panthotenate ,  also known as vitamin b5  -  a water - soluble vitamin .
those pathways that are triggered through the binding of a growth factor to its particular receptor .
nerve growth factor  ( ngf )  signaling pathways control a variety of processes such as neuronal cell differentiation ,  axon growth .
members of the egf / neuregulin superfamily are important regulators of tissue development and repair .
inherited neurodegenerative diseases that are caused by the expansion of a polyglutamine  ( polyq )  tract in several ,  unrelated proteins .
an inherited neurodegenerative disease caused by an expanded polyglutamine  ( polyq )  tract .
an inherited form of neurodegenerative disease caused by an expanded polyglutamine  ( polyq )  tract .
the metabolic syndrome is a multiphenotypic condition with concurrent features of several diseases and metabolic abnormalities .
a possible subset of the metabolic syndrome ,  characterized  by features such as hypertriglyceridemia ,  age - dependent changes in plasma total cholesterol ,  overproduction of triglyceride - rich lipoproteins .
a range of conditions with various manifestations associated with disruptions of several pathways ,  primarily those revolving around glucose homeostasis and insulin signaling .
a common complication of diabetes and a leading cause of end stage renal diseases affecting a number of pathways ,  particularly the thiol and anti - oxidant pathways .
neurological disorders are a group of disorders that involve the central nervous system  ( brain ,  brainstem and cerebellum )  ,  the peripheral nervous system  ( including cranial nerves )  ,  and the autonomic nervous system  ( parts of which are located in both the central and peripheral nervous systems )  .
an autosomal dominant condition that often leads to seizure and other neurological symptoms and that may be linked to deregulations in the mtor signaling pathway .
mtor signaling pathway regulates cellular processes such as translation ,  ribosome biogenesis ,  cell growth and autophagy and is regulated or responds to growth factors ,  energy metabolites and / or levels of nutrients .
those pathways that are involved in or mediate how protein fold or are maintained in a particular folding state ,  are sorted for translocation or degradation ,  are modified to regulate their function or to target them for degradation and finally ,  are degraded .
a protein degradation pathway that involves proteases residing in lysosomes and exhibiting optimal activity at an acidic ph  ( e .g . ,  cathepsins )  .
a protein degradation pathway that involves calcium - dependent proteases   ( e .g . ,  calpains )   , 
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of terpenoids .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of limonene  -   an essential oil ,  a monocyclic terpene ,  found in the peel of oranges and lemons ,  and pinene  -  a terpene found in turpentine and many essential oils ,  used as a solvent and in the manufacture of camphor ,  insecticides ,  and synthetic pine oil .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of streptomycin  -  the first of the aminoglycoside antibiotics to be isolated ,  derived from streptomyces griseus ;  it is effective against a wide variety of aerobic gram - negative bacilli and some gram - positive bacteria ,  including mycobacteria .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of erythromycin  -    an intermediate spectrum macrolide  ( a chemical compound characterized by a large lactone ring containing multiple keto and hydroxyl groups )  antibiotic ,  produced by streptomyces erythreus ,  effective against most gram - positive and certain gram - negative bacteria ,  such as neisseria species and haemophilus influenzae ,  and against spirochetes ,  some rickettsias ,  and entamoeba ;  it is also highly effective against mycoplasma pneumoniae .
the series or metabolic reactions involved in the interconversions of the monosaccharide pentose and glucuronate ,  the salts or esters of glucuronic acid ,  as depicted in the kegg diagram .
folate mediated one - carbon metabolism represents the one - carbon transfer reactions important for de novo purine and thymidylate biosynthesis and for the remethylation of methionine in the methionine cycle and homocysteine metabolism .
those reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of porphyrin  -  any of a group of compounds containing the porphyrin structure ,  four pyrrole rings connected by methine bridges in a cyclic configuration ,  to which a variety of side chains may be attached  -  and chlorophyll  -  any of a group of green magnesium - containing porphyrin derivatives occurring in all photosynthetic organisms .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of keratan sulfate  -  a glycosaminoglycan found in the cornea ,  in cartilage ,  and in the nucleus pulposus and also as the accumulation product in morquio's syndrome .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of n - linked glycans .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of n - glycans .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of o - linked glycans .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of chondroitin .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of globoside  -  a glycosphingolipid containing acetylated amino sugars and simple hexoses .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of sphingolipids  -  important components of animal and plant membranes .
a sapk mapk pathway that plays an important role in inflammation and may be involved in several forms of cancer .
a wnt mediated pathway that is involved in the regulation of cell - cell adhesion and motility .
the planar cell polarity  ( pcp )  wnt signaling pathway plays an essential role in morphogenesis through the regulation of tissues patterning .
wnt signaling pathway is involved in many developmental processes .
a specific pathway for repair of double - strand breaks .
a specific pathway for repair of double - strand breaks .
notch signaling pathway regulates processes involved in early embryonic development .
dentatorubral - pallidoluysian atrophy  ( drpla )  is caused by an expanded trinucleotide repeat in the atrophin - 1  ( atn1 )  gene .
transforming growth factor - beta  ( tgf - beta )  signaling pathway regulates numerous cellular processes such as proliferation ,  differentiation ,  migration and cell death .
diabetes mellitus is characterized by abnormally high levels of glucose in the blood .
the jak - stat pathway is a main intracellular cascade initiated primarily in response to cytokine and also other ligand signaling .
the core intracellular  signaling cascade mediated  by the tgf - beta superfamily .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of biogenic amines and polyamines .
choline metabolism is important for the synthesis of phosphatidylcholine in mammalian cells .
rna polymerase iv transcription pathway is found in plants and is involved in the synthesis of small interfering rna  ( sirna )  .
polyamines play important roles in cell growth ,  proliferation and survival .
rna polymerase v transcription pathway operates in plants and plays a role in heterochromatin formation .
polyamine metabolism plays important roles in a number of cellular processes .
tetrahydrobiopterin is a cofactor for amino acid hydroxylases involved in the synthesis of several neurotransmitters .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of heme  -  an iron - containing compound where the iron is complexed within a porphyrin heterocyclic ring .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide  ( nad )  .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of heme  -  an iron - containing compound where the iron is complexed within a porphyrin heterocyclic ring .
those metabolic reactions leading to the decomposition of n - acetylglucosamine  -  an acetylated amino sugar that is an important moiety of glycoproteins ,  n - acetylmannosamine  -  the acetylated derivative of mannosamine ,  and n - acetylneuraminic acid  -  the most common form of sialic acid in mammals .
those metabolic reactions involving citrulline .
putrescine ,  spermidine and spermine are the only polyamines synthesized in mammalian cells .
based on sequence similarity ,  the galpha genes have been grouped into four classes .
based on sequence similarity ,  the galpha genes have been grouped into four classes .
based on sequence similarity ,  the galpha genes have been grouped into four classes .
based on sequence similarity ,  the galpha genes have been grouped into four classes .
a very close relative of ras ,  rap1 mediated pathway  appears to control diverse processes such as modulation of growth and differentiation ,  secretion ,  integrin linked cell adhesion ,  morphogenesis .
phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase - akt signaling pathway involving pi3k class i enzymes ,  particularly class ia ,  controls various processes such as cell growth ,  proliferation and survival .
tumor necrosis factor  ( tnf )  signaling plays pivotal roles in immunity ,  cell proliferation ,  differentiation and apoptosis by activating several pathways .
the innate immune response  -  a universal and ancient form of host defense against infection  -  is a first line of response to various pathogens and also to damaged cells .
the adaptive immune response is an evolutionarily newer mechanism that provides great specificity and diversity of antigen recognition ,  immunological memory and specialized responses .
members of tnf superfamily mediate autoimmunity and inflammation ,  cell proliferation ,  survival and / or apoptosis through a number of signaling mechanisms that involve activation of nuclear factor - kappab ,  of caspases and / or of mitogen - activated protein kinases  ( mapk )  .
the pathway ( s )  elicited as a physiological response to various types of insults ,  injuries ,  shocks and other situations the organism perceives as threatening .
insulin - like growth factor signaling plays important roles in cell growth and proliferation .
diabetes mellitus is characterized by abnormally high levels of glucose in the blood .
neuropsychiatric diseases are mental disorders due to various defects in the working of the nervous system .
schizophrenia is a psychiatric diagnosis denoting a persistent ,  often chronic ,  mental illness variously affecting behavior ,  thinking ,  and emotion .
as categorized by the dsm - iv ,  bipolar disorder is a form of mood disorder characterized by a variation of mood between a phase of manic or hypomanic elation ,  hyperactivity and hyper imagination ,  and a depressive phase of inhibition ,  slowness to conceive ideas and move ,  and anxiety or sadness .
the vegf family plays key roles in angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis .
angiotensin ii signaling pathways play a critical role in the control of cardiovascular and renal homeostasis .
angiotensin peptides ang ii ,  ang iii ,  ang iv and ang  ( 1 - 7 )  generated from a single precursor protein  -  angiotensinogen  -  regulate an array of physiological and pathophysiological processes .
the rheb family of proteins plays an essential role in the regulation of cell growth and cell cycle .
tgf - beta can activate signaling cascades other than the smad - mediated ones ,  including mapk pathways such as erk ,  p38 and jnk .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of isoprenoids or terpenoids  -  a large class of organic biomolecules .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of lipopolysaccharides ,  also known as lipoglycans ,  found in the outer membrane of gram - negative bacteria .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of peptidoglycan  -  a high molecular weight polymer that forms the tough ,  rigid structure of bacterial cell walls .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of diterpenoid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of indole and ipecac .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of penicillin and cephalosporins .
those pathways that confer to an organism resistance to the action of beta - lactams  -  a class of broad spectrum antibiotics that are structurally and pharmacologically related to penicillins and cephalosporins .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of polyketides .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of tetracycline  -  any of a group of biosynthetic antibiotics .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of clavulanic acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of puromycin  -  an antibiotic produced by streptomyces alboniger ,  which has been used experimentally as an antineoplastic because of its ability to inhibit protein synthesis ;  it also has trypanosomicidal and amebicidal activity and was formerly used in the treatment of african trypanosomiasis and amebic dysentery .
the unique morphology of the neuron defies the classical organization of secretory pathways .
those metabolic pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those regulatory pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those signaling pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
creutzfeldt - jakob disease  -   a rare prion disease ,  associated with a number of different mutations of the prion protein gene ,  existing in sporadic ,  familial  ( as an autosomal dominant )  ,  and infectious forms ,  with onset usually in middle life ,  and having a wide variety of clinical and pathological features .
gerstmann - strussler syndrome ,    gerstmann - strussler - scheinker syndrome  -  a group of rare prion diseases ,  of autosomal dominant inheritance but linked to different mutations of the prion protein gene .
fatal familial insomnia  -  an inherited prion disease ,  transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait ,  affecting primarily the ventral and dorsomedial nuclei of the thalamus and characterized by progressive insomnia ,  hallucinations ,  stupor ,  and coma ending in death within 6 months to 3 years of onset ;  autonomic and motor disturbances are also present .
kuru  -  an infectious form of prion disease with a long incubation period ,  found only among the fore and neighboring peoples of new guinea .
those reactions and molecular interactions underlying the folding of a protein into its functional three - dimensional structure .
the major events in presynaptic terminal differentiation are the formation of the active zone and the clustering of synaptic vesicles .
the factors and components involved in ,  and the elements that regulate them and together shape and modulate the formation of the postsynaptic differentiation .
a simpler pathway of neuron - to - neuron signaling involving the direct flow of ionic currents .
a neurotransmitter - releasing pathway of neuron - to - neuron communication .
a cell death pathway represents the particular series of events leading to the demise of a whole cell or parts of its contents .
non - apoptotic cell death pathway refers collectively to those types of cell death whose functional and / or morphological features are different from the apoptotic cell death .
cellular senescence ,  also known as replicative senescence ,  results from cells ceasing to divide .
autophagic pathway involves the sequestration of misfolded or long - lived proteins and of defective organelles within double membrane vesicles ,  delivery of the cargo to lysosomes for degradation and recycling .
necrosis represents the sum of the morphological changes indicative of cell death and caused by the progressive degradative action of enzymes ;  it may affect groups of cells or part of a structure or an organ .
the secretory pathway is the route by which secreted proteins travel from sites of biosynthesis and folding ,  modification and sorting ,  to their final destinations .
the endocytic pathway allows for recycling of cargo delivered via the exocytic or secretory routes ,  uptake of nutrients ,  internalization of receptors and also ,  the engulfing of dying cells or of material foreign to the cell .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of benzoate  -  a salt of benzoic acid or benzene carboxylic acid ,  a fungistatic compound widely used as a food preservative .
those metabolic pathways involving glycan that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those metabolic pathways involving glycosaminoglycans that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those metabolic pathways involving heparan sulfate  ( hs )  that deviate from what their normal course should be .
integrins signal bi - directionally across the plasma membrane and provide an example of mechanotransduction .
those apoptotic pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
an intrinsic apoptotic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
those pathways of cell death that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those pathways involved in and / or controlling dna replication ,  cell cycle ,  dna repair and preservation of genomic integrity ,  rna and protein biosynthesis that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those pathways of dna repair that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those pathways of protein folding ,  sorting ,  modification ,  translocation and degradation that deviate from what their normal course should be .
an ubiquitin / proteasome degradation pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
an integrin signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ,  or hcm ,  is a disease of the myocardium  ( the muscle of the heart )  in which a portion of the myocardium is thickened .
pdgf signaling pathway plays an important role in the regulation of cell growth and survival .
those growth factor mediated signaling pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
myocardial infarction ,  commonly known as heart attack ,  is a serious ,  sudden heart condition characterized by varying degrees of chest pain ,  weakness ,  sweating ,  nausea and vomiting ,  sometimes causing loss of consciousness .
the congenital and acquired diseases affecting the kidney .
renal failure implies the loss of kidney function .
glomerulonephritis is accompanied by inflammation of the capillary loops in the glomeruli of the kidney .
the p53 - dependent pathway of g1 arrest in response to damaged dna .
the p53 - independent pathway of g1 / s arrest in response to damaged dna .
those pathways of carbohydrate metabolism that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those pathways of galactose metabolism that deviate from what their normal course should be .
coagulative necrosis is typically seen in hypoxic environments .
liquefactive necrosis is associated with cellular destruction and pus formation  ( e .g .
caseous necrosis is a mix of coagulative necrosis and liquefactive necrosis  ( e .g .
fatty necrosis results from the action of lipases on fatty tissues  ( e .g .
fibrinoid necrosis involves the deposition of fibrin and other plasma proteins in the walls of afferent renal arterioles in malignant hypertension ,  often accompanied by an inflammatory infiltrate within the walls and thrombosis of the vessel lumen .
mapk signaling pathways that are responding to stress or injury as well as inflammatory cytokines
a stress induced mapk pathway that regulates an array of processes such as gene expression ,  cell migration ,  cytoskeletal organization ,  apoptosis .
those signaling pathways that are mediated through the binding of calmodulin  -  a multifunctional calcium transducer  -  to its target effectors .
calcineurin  -  a calcium / calmodulin dependent serine / threonine phosphatase  -  plays important regulatory roles in cardiac muscle growth and differentiation ,  memory processes and apoptosis .
the multifunctional calcium / calmodulin dependent serine / threonine kinases  ( camks )  play important regulatory roles in the cardiac ,  muscle ,  nervous and immune tissues .
members of the nfat family of transcription factors ,  once de - phosphorylated by calcineurin translocate from the cytoplasm to the nucleus where they induce the transcription of genes involved in the immune response ,  cell - cell interactions .
those calcium / cam dependent pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
a calcineurin signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of novobiocin ,  an aminocoumarin antibiotic .
a hedgehog signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
ephrins and their receptors constitute a bidirectional signaling pathway transducing forward signals through the receptors and reverse signals through the ephrins that influence the behavior of both interacting cells .
an eph / ephrin bidirectional axis that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a notch signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
those pathways involved in the degradation of proteins .
the pathways involved in the formation ,  reduction and isomerization of disulphide bonds in proteins .
the family of fibroblast growth factors  ( fgf )  comprises 22 ligands classified into seven phylogenetic subfamilies and three groups by mode of action: the intracellular intracrine and the extracellular paracrine or canonical and endocrine or hormone - like groups .
the tgf - beta superfamily of growth factors regulates a broad spectrum of processes such as angiogenesis ,  embryonic development ,  cell differentiation ,  proliferation ,  wound healing .
the bone morphogenetic proteins  ( bmp )  are related to tgf - beta and activins and are members of the tgf - beta superfamily .
activins are members of the tgf - beta superfamily of growth factors .
cell - cell signaling pathway conveys information between cells using cell adhesion molecules .
cadherins represent a large protein superfamily with many and important roles in cell adhesion and signaling .
those tgf - beta superfamily mediated signaling pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those cell - cell signaling pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
selectins represent a small family of lectin - like adhesion receptors that mediate cell - cell interactions via calcium - dependent recognition of sialylated glycans .
an altered notch signaling pathway due to mutation ( s )  in the main players .
an altered notch signaling pathway due to mutation ( s )  in the enzymes ,  macromolecules that act upon the main players .
an altered notch signaling pathway due to mutation ( s )  in the target gene ( s )  .
an altered notch signaling pathway due to mutation ( s )  in the promoters of target gene ( s )  .
cadasil  -  cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy  -  a disease of the small cerebral arteries characterized by subcortical stroke and vascular dementia .
alagille syndrome is a developmental disease characterized by defects in heart ,  as well as liver ,  skeleton and eye .
a vegf mediated pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
an altered vegf signaling pathway due to mutation ( s )  in the main players .
an altered vegf signaling pathway due to mutation ( s )  in the enzymes that process vegf ,  such as the plasmin and furin - like proteases .
an altered vegf signaling pathway due to mutation ( s )  ,  any activity change in the proteins that regulate vegf expression .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of glycerophospholipids ,  also known as phospholipids .
those pathways involved in the maintenance of the internal environment of an organism ,  the adequate levels of substances and nutrients ,  the stability of normal body states and the feedback regulatory mechanisms that control them .
the pathways involved in responding to changes in and maintenance of adequate oxygen levels .
those pathways involved in the balance between energy uptake and energy expenditure .
those homeostatic pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those pathways of energy homeostasis that deviate from what their normal course should be .
the hypoxia inducible transcription factor is activated in response to hypoxic conditions to promote the expression of many genes that play important roles in glucose and energy metabolism ,  angiogenesis and erythropoiesis .
the acute hypoxic response is mediated through the activity of excitable cells via oxygen - sensing ion channels .
leptin acts on two populations of hypothalamic neurons that express orexigenic  ( feeding inducing )  and anorexigenic genes ,  respectively .
the melanocortin dependent system is involved in a diverse number of pathways such as pigmentation ,  steroidogenesis ,  sexual function ,  energy homeostasis .
a melanocortin dependent system pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
jak - stat signaling pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those pathways dependent on activation by jak kinases but independent of stat proteins .
nuclear factor ,  2 like 2  ( nfe2l2 ,  also known as nrf2 )  signaling pathway is one of the most important regulator of antioxidant and / or electrophilic stress responses .
the aryl hydrocarbon receptor  ( ahr )  is a transcription factor whose ligands include a variety of aromatic hydrocarbons and which regulates the expression of phase i and phase ii drug -  and xenobiotic - metabolizing enzymes .
the maintenance of adequate intracellular calcium levels are crucial in order to assure the availability of this important ion and ,  at the same time prevent against the damage its high concentration can cause .
dysfunction of calcium homeostasis has been implicated in several human neural ,  neurodegenerative and cardiac conditions .
the glutathione conjugation of endogenous and exogenous electrophilic compounds represents a major pathway phase ii biotransformation .
pathways of glutathione conjugates processing other than the mercapturic acid pathway .
the major phase i biotransformation pathway for the activation of endogenous and exogenous substances carried out by members of the cytochrome p450 superfamily .
a minor phase i biotransformation pathway for the activation of endogenous and exogenous substances carried by flavin - containing monooxygenases .
the mercapturic acid pathway of glutathione conjugates processing involves the sequential cleavage of glutamyl and glycine residues of glutathione followed by cysteine n - acetylation .
oxidative stress occurs when the redox balance between pro -  and anti - oxidants is upset due to an increase in endogenous or exogenous pro - oxidant stimuli .
inhibition of protein folding or its disruption by mutant proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum triggers a signal transduction response known as the unfolded protein response  ( upr )  .
drugs ,  endogenous and / or exogenous compounds processed through the phase i and ii of  bioactivation ,  biotransformation pathways are eliminated via phase iii transport pathway carried out by several transporter families .
the g2m checkpoint pathways assure the genome is replicated only once per cell cycle .
those pathways that assure the genome is replicated only once per cell cycle .
a very close relative of ras ,  rap1 mediated pathway  appears to control diverse processes such as modulation of growth and differentiation ,  secretion ,  integrin linked cell adhesion ,  morphogenesis .
arf family mediated signaling pathways are involved in the regulation of intracellular vesicle trafficking .
the reelin signaling pathway regulates neuronal positioning and may also play a role in synaptic plasticity .
a ras mediated signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
dopamine signaling plays important roles in processes such as motivation ,  learning and movement .
polyamine metabolism plays important roles in a number of cellular processes .
those metabolic reactions involving cobalamin ,  known as vitamin b12  -  a water - soluble vitamin .
homocysteine  ( hcy )  metabolism is at the intersection of two pathways: the remethylation pathway that regenerates methionine and thus the methionine cycle and the transsulfuration pathway that gives rise to cysteine and derivatives .
the predominant route of homocysteine remethylation to methionine that requires the 5 - methyl tetrahydrofolate 1 carbon donor and as such ,  engages folate metabolism .
the transulfuration pathway is one of the two routes of homocysteine metabolism .
the route of homocysteine remethyation to methionine that mainly occurs in the liver and requires betaine as the methyl donor .
those metabolic pathways of amino acids other than the common amino acids that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those pathways of amino acid metabolism that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those metabolic reactions involving creatine .
release of neurotransmitters is mediated through the exocytosis of neurotransmitter - filled synaptic vesicles .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of acetylcholine  -  an ester of choline and acetic acid that acts as a neurotransmitter in both the peripheral nervous system and the central nervous system .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of dopamine that acts as a neurotransmitter and a neurohormone .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of serotonin  -  an amine neurotransmitter that is believed to play important roles in a number of conditions such as depression ,  bipolar disorder ,  anxiety .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of histamine  -  a biogenic amine that acts as a neurotransmitter and is also involved in the local immune responses .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of heme  -  an iron - containing compound where the iron is complexed within a porphyrin heterocyclic ring ,  there are several kinds of hemes depending on the composition of their side chain .
the 'core' 20s proteasome degrades oxidized and / or unfolded proteins in an atp and ubiquitin independent manner .
a proteasome degradation pathway mediated by cullins .
a pathway of protein modification via conjugation with sumo  ( small ubiquitin - related modifier )  .
the pathway for the atp - dependent non - lysosomal proteolysis catalyzed by the 26s proteasome and for which ubiquitination ,  the post - translational covalent conjugation of ubiquitin ,  or ubiquitin - like ,  to target proteins is a key signal .
the pathways by which water flows into and out of the cell and into and out of sub - cellular compartments for multi - cellular organisms and mediated by members of the aquaporin family of water channels  ( wcp )  .
a mitogen activated protein kinase pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a surfactant homeostatic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
high glucose - mediated oxidative stress effects on the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and insulin - like growth factor ,  triggering of polyol metabolic pathway and activation of protein kinase c  ( pkc )  signaling are thought to play a role in the pathophysiology of diabetic retinopathy .
in the secretory pathway ,  protein sorting ,  mainly in trans - golgi network  ( tgn )  ,  but also in other compartments ,  underlies cargo recognition by various carriers to assure the specificity of final localization .
molybdenum cofactor is a complex between molybdopterin and an oxide of molybdenum and is required for the activity of several enzymes .
protein modification pathway exerts a central role in the regulation of protein function and the pathways these function impinge upon .
conjugation of proteins with ubiquitin and ubiquitin - like molecules proceeds via a cascade - like ,  enzyme - driven mechanism with diverse functionality .
a pathway of protein modification via conjugation with ubiquitin .
a pathway of protein modification via conjugation with nedd8   -  a ubiquitin - like protein .
the prominent examples of biogenic amines are histamine ,  serotonin ,  the catecholamine and the choline derived acetylcholine ,  all acting as neurotransmitters involved in a wide range of processes .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of alanine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of aspartic acid / aspartate .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of glycine ,  a non - essential amino acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of epinephrine  -  a catecholamine derived from the amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of norepinephrine  -  a catecholamine derived from the amino acid tyrosine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of catecholamines  -  chemical compounds derived from tyrosine .
any of a number of indole derivatives containing an amine group .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of neuropeptide y .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of enkephalin ,  a pentapeptide involved in the regulation of nociception .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of neurotensin .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of beta - endorphine  -  a peptide neurotransmitter that may play a role in depression .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of substance p  -  a  short - chain polypeptide that acts as a neurotransmitter and a neuromodulator .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of an isoprenoid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of cholesterol ,  an essential sterol component of mammalian cell membrane .
synaptic transmission ,  or neurotransmission is the pathway of neuron - to - neuron signaling via the chemical synapse and mediated by neurotransmitters .
synaptic transmission ,  or neurotransmission is the pathway of neuron - to - neuron signaling via the chemical synapse and mediated by neurotransmitters .
angiotensin iii is derived from angiotensin ii through the action of aminopeptidase a and in turn is cleaved by aminopeptidase n to generate angiotensin iv .
angiotensin iv is derived from angiotensin iii through the action of aminopeptidase n . the receptor for angiotensin iv has been shown to be the insulin - regulated membrane aminopeptidase .
apelin signaling pathway plays a role in the vascular ,  cardiac ,  bone and digestive systems as well as the brain .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or conversion of arachidonic acid  -  a polyunsaturated ,  omega - 6 fatty acid .
the cyclooxygenase pathway is one of the three major routes of arachidonic acid oxygenation .
lipoxygenase pathway is one of three major routes of arachidonic acid oxygenation
cytochrome p450 monooxygenase pathway is one the three major routes of arachidonic acid oxygenation .
those metabolic reactions involving leukotrienes  -  a class of eicosanoids whose effects include vasoconstriction and bronchoconstriction .
hormones are a class of molecules that are used as messengers between cells and serve as signals to the target cell .
steroid hormones  -  steroids that act as hormones  -  can be grouped into several categories depending on the receptor to which they bind .
the main categories of lipid hormones are the eicosanoids derived from arachidonic acid metabolism and the cholesterol derived steroid hormones .
the natriuretic peptide family consists of three peptide hormones of diverse roles in cardiovascular as well as neuroendocrine and renal functions .
atrial natriuretic peptide hormone pathway plays important roles in the regulation of body fluid volume and blood pressure .
brain natriuretic peptide signaling pathway appears to elicit cardiovascular ,  renal and endocrine functions similar to those elicited by the atrial natriuretic peptide .
the role of the c - type signaling pathway is not well established .
the coagulation cascade is the series of events proceeding via the tissue factor  ( extrinsic )  or the contact activation  ( intrinsic )  pathway and converging in the formation of fibrin clots .
hemostasis is the response to blood vessel injury to prevent blood loss via platelet mediated primary homeostasis and the secondary homeostasis of coagulation .
the endogenous routes of inhibiting the coagulation cascade ,  collectively known as the natural anticoagulant pathways .
tissue factor pathway inhibitor isoforms alpha and beta are the main anticoagulants targeting the extrinsic coagulation cascade factors f7a and f7a - dependent f10a .
antithrombin  ( at )  affects the activity of many coagulation factors in the intrinsic and common coagulation cascade .
activated protein c ,  with the aid of protein s ,  inhibits f8a and f5a  -  the important cofactors of the intrinsic tenase and thrombinase complexes ,  respectively ,  of coagulation cascade .
the steps leading to the activation of plasminogen and the subsequent breaking down of a fibrin clot  -  the product of coagulation cascade .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of lipoproteins  -  any of the protein - lipid complexes .
those lipid metabolic pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those lipoprotein metabolic pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of eicosanoids .
peptides generated from proteolytic degradation of cytosolic proteins are translocated to the er where they associate with class i mhc molecules .
peptides generated from enzymatic degradation of proteins internalized in late endosomes or lysosomes bind to class ii mhc molecules .
antigen processing pathway engages the proteosomal machinery in the cytosol ,  er specific proteases as well as chaperones for loading the hmc class i molecules with the 8 - 10 amino acid peptides
angiopoietin signaling pathway is involved in the regulation of angiogenic remodeling .
transforming growth factor - beta  ( tgf - beta )  signaling is one of the best characterized module of the tgf - b superfamily pathways .
the hormone vasopressin plays central roles in cardiovascular and water homeostasis by signaling via two receptor types ,  g - protein coupled receptors coupling to particular g alpha subunits of heterotrimeric g proteins .
the renin - angiotensin cascade  ( ras )  generates a number of bioactive peptides with diverse physiological and pathophysiological functions .
corticotropin - releasing hormone is secreted by the hypothalamus in response to stress or fear and signaling through its receptors stimulates secretion of corticotropic  ( adrenocorticotropic ,  acth )  hormone by the anterior pituitary .
the peptide hormone oxytocin plays a central role in parturition ,  lactation and sexual behavior .
gas6 ,  a vitamin k - dependent growth factor signals through the axl subfamily of tyrosine kinase receptors .
reverse cholesterol transport  ( rct )  is the pathway by which cholesterol from extrahepatic cells / tissue is transported to the liver for excretion .
nf - kb signaling plays an essential role in the mammalian immune system .
thyroid hormone  ( th )  signaling pathway plays important roles in glucose and lipid metabolism .
the complement system is an important effector of innate and also of humoral adaptive immunity .
the classical complement pathway is one of the three biochemical pathways of the complement system .
the lectin pathway is one of the three biochemical pathways of the complement system .
the alternative pathway is one of the three biochemical pathways of the complement system .
endothelins represent a family of three vasoconstrictor peptides that play a role in several intracellular signaling pathways and have been associated with hypertension ,  heart failure and myocardial infarction .
estrogens are c18 steroid hormones that constitutes the females sex hormones .
the pathway involving the attachment of platelets to one another and leading to the formation of a thrombus .
a hormone signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the interleukin - 10 family comprises several interleukins ,  including members of the interferon type iii also known as interferon lambda or interferon - like type ,  that carry out various immunomodulatory functions .
interleukin - 6 family includes several members involved in a wide range of biological processes such as immune regulation ,  inflammation ,  hematopoiesis and oncogenesis .
interleukin - 10 signaling is involved in various immunomodulatory functions .
interleukin - 6 signaling is involved in a wide range of biological processes such as immune regulation ,  inflammation ,  hematopoiesis and oncogenesis .
a pathway leading to a general or specific artery occlusion .
a pathway leading to the thickening of medium and large arteries .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of ddt  -  a chlorinated organic insecticide and environmental pollutant .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of 2 , 4 - dichlorobenzoate  -  a key intermediate in the aerobic degradation of over 200 polychlorinated biphenyls .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of 1 , 2 - dichloroethane  -  a moderately reactive alkylating compound .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of flavonoids  -  a class of plant secondary metabolites generally known for their antioxidant activity .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization or degradation of linoleic acid  -  an unsaturated omega - 6 fatty acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of heparan sulfate .
the kallikrein - kinin system  ( kks )  cascade generates several bioactive kinins with roles in vasodilation ,  release of inflammatory mediators and stimulation of sensory neurons .
angiotensin ii signaling through the angiotensin type 1 receptor  ( at1 )  activates downstream signaling pathways and elicits a broad range of physiological responses .
angiotensin ii signaling through the angiotensin type 2 receptor  ( at2 )  is less well understood and rather controversial .
angiotensin  ( 1 - 7 )  is derived from angiotensin ii through the action of angiotensin converting enzyme 2  ( ace2 )  or from angiotensin i through the action of neutral endopeptidase  ( nep )  .
angiotensin iii ,  like angiotensin ii ,  binds to the type 1 and 2 receptors and triggers downstream signaling pathways .
the role of angiotensin type 2 receptor is less well understood .
those metabolic reactions leading to the biosynthesis of glycogen ,  a highly branched polysaccharide .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of glycogen ,  a highly branched polysaccharide that constitutes the major form of glucose storage in the cell .
those metabolic reactions involved in the breakdown of glycogen to glucose - 6 - phosphate .
the pathway that mediates the transport of proteins to their proper destination and the trafficking of proteins between organelles .
in the constitutive secretory pathway ,  common to all cell types ,  newly synthesized proteins are sorted into transport vesicles and targeted to their destination in the absence of a signal .
in the regulated secretory pathway ,  secreted proteins are sorted into secretory vesicles which are stored intracellularly and move to the final destination upon receiving a signal .
the import - export cycle that underlies the shuttling of proteins between the cytoplasm and the nucleus .
ghrelin is an appetite - stimulating hormone secreted primarily from the stomach in response to fasting that can downregulate energy expenditure and lead to weight increase .
obesity ,  usually defined as 20% or more excess body weight ,  constitutes a major public health problem and an independent risk factor for a number of conditions such as hypertension and diabetes .
ampk senses changes in cellular energy as atp / amp ratio .
protein kinase a  ( pka )  signaling is a widely used intracellular pathway and the major route for channeling the camp signal .
an impaired pathway of reverse cholesterol transport and efflux can pose a risk for the development of cardiovascular disease .
the pathways of mrna quality control thereby erroneous mrna is degraded in the nucleus or cytoplasm ,  or normal mrna accumulated in the nucleus is degraded .
the nuclear exosome pathway degrades erroneous mrna as well as normal mrna that has accumulated in the nucleus .
the nonsense - mediated decay pathway  ( nmd )  degrades mrna that contains a premature translation termination codon  ( ptc )  and is one of the best characterized systems in eukaryotes .
the nonstop mrna decay pathway degrades mrna that lacks a translation termination codon .
staufen - mediated mrna decay pathway  ( smd )  is a rather novel pathway identified in mammals .
an mrna decay pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of brassinosteroids or brassins ,  a group of plant hormones released in response to low oxygen and sugar ,  or to root stresses .
those pathways involved in the balanced maintenance of  glucose levels ,  transport and processing as demanded by the needs of the cells ,  tissues and organs .
glucose diffusion into cells requires specific transporter proteins .
the various pathways thereby glucose is oxidized to produce energy ,  is converted to other molecules or is stored for further use .
the various pathways thereby glucose is converted to other compounds to yield primarily atp .
glycogen is the major form of glucose storage .
the formation of nucleotide hexosamines ,  primarily udp - n - acetylglucosamine ,  constitutes the final step in the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway which provides substrates for the o - linked glycosylation of proteins .
the glut family contains 14 members in mammals which can be grouped into 3 classes based on sequence similarities .
the sodium - glucose or the sodium - dependent glucose cotransporters are characterized by the presence of 14 transmembrane alpha - helices .
the growth hormone signaling pathway is an important regulator of postnatal development .
adiponectin signaling ,  a hormone secreted by the adipose tissue ,  impacts on metabolic pathways such as glucose and lipid metabolism ,  possibly via activation of ampk pathway .
androgens are c19 steroids that constitutes the male sex hormones .
eicosanoids ,  derived from omega - 3 or omega - 6 fatty acids ,  are represented by the leukotriene and prostanoid classes of which the latter is represented by several families .
corticosteroids group together glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids ,  c21 - steroid hormones derived from cholesterol .
sex steroid mediated signaling pathways have important roles in the development and / or maintenance of sex - specific characteristics or attributes .
aldosterone signaling through the mineralocorticoid receptor plays an important role in the balance of fluids and electrolytes in the body .
cortisol ,  also known as hydrocortison ,  is the most important glucocorticoid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of hexosamines ,  amino sugars created by adding an amino group to a hexose .
signaling pathways activated by members of the neurotrophic family of growth factors are involved in differentiation of progenitor cells ,  survival and differentiation of neural cells .
brain - derived neurotrophic factor  ( bdnf )  signaling pathway plays important roles in the growth ,  differentiation and survival of neurons ,  particularly the striatal neurons .
the oxidative  ( linear )  phase of the pentose phosphate pathway involves the oxidation and decarboxylation of glucose - 6 - phosphate to produce the 5 carbon sugar ribulose - 5 - phosphate and the generation of nadph .
the non - oxidative  ( circular )  phase of the pentose phosphate pathway involves conversion of  ribulose - 5 - phosphate to ribose - 5 - phosphate ,  important in the synthesis of nucleotides and nucleic acid ,  or to 3 or 6 carbon sugars .
those pathways that mediate the transport of sugars across the cell membrane .
the glut family contains 14 members in mammals which can be grouped into 3 classes based on sequence similarities .
cytokines are small proteins released by the cell and acting as intercellular mediators .
scatter factor / hepatocyte signaling impacts on various biological processes such as proliferation and survival ,  morphogenesis and motility .
somatostatin signaling through its receptors regulates processes such as proliferation ,  secretion and motility via inhibition of growth hormone and factor .
translation initiation is the first ,  the rate - limiting and the most regulated step of translation .
translation elongation involves sampling of aminoacyl - trnas until a cognate trna is found followed by peptidyl transfer and translocation reactions .
translation termination occurs when a stop codon is read ,  followed by splitting of the ribosomal subunits and their recycling .
the orexin / hypocretin signaling appears to play a role in the stimulation of food intake .
an orexin / hypocretin signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
orexin / hypocretin signaling through receptor 1 couples to galphaq class of g proteins .
orexin / hypocretin signaling through receptor 2 couples to galphaq and the inhibitory galphai classes of g proteins .
narcolepsy is a neurological condition characterized by excessive day sleep ,  an inability to maintain awake states .
an adiponectin signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
those pathways involved in the proper balance of metal ion levels ,  uptake and transport ,  utilization and storage as demanded by the needs of cells ,  tissues and organs .
those pathways involved in the proper balance of iron levels ,  uptake and transport ,  utilization and storage as needed by cells ,  tissues and organs .
the uptake and efflux routes of iron transport .
the main storage system for iron is represented by ferritin .
those pathways that mediate the uptake and transport of metal ions .
the pathways involved in the balanced maintenance of glucose levels ,  transport and processing as demanded by the needs of the cells ,  tissues and organs assure the maintenance of glucose homeostasis .
phosphatidylinositol kinases represent a family of lipid kinases that phosphorylate the 3' position of the inositol ring in target substrates .
an insulin signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the non - canonical wnt signaling pathway groups the various wnt signaling routes that are beta - catenin independent .
a wnt signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a canonical wnt signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a non - canonical wnt signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a raf / mek / erk signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
erk5 pathway ,  also known as the big map kinase ,  is activated by various stresses but not by inflammatory cytokines .
cancer ,  or malignant neoplasm ,  represents a category of diseases characterized by uncontrolled cell growth and avoidance of apoptosis ,  invasion and metastasis .
urogenital cancer groups those malignancies that affect the urinary system and reproductive organs .
ovarian cancer is a leading cause of cancer deaths in women .
cervical cancer affects the cervical area and human papilloma virus  ( hpv )  infection plays a major role in the pathogenesis of the condition .
prostate cancer is a frequent form of cancer in men over the age of fifty .
bladder cancer groups several types of malignant tumors of the urinary bladder .
endometrial cancer affects the lining of the uterus ,  or endometrium .
colorectal cancer are malignant tumors of the colon and rectum .
a trasforming growth factor - beta  ( tgf - beta )  signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a transfoming growth factor - beta smad dependent signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a bone morphogenetic protein  ( bmp )  signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
those tumor necrosis factor superfamily mediated pathways that deviate from what their normal course should be .
a cytokine mediated signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a tumor necrosis factor  ( tnf )  signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a nuclear factor kappa b  ( nf - kb )  signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
those signaling pathways involving second messengers that deviate from what their normal course should be .
a phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase - akt signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a scatter factor / hepatocyte growth factor signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
breast cancer or neoplasm is the most common cancer among women and the second worldwide after lung cancer .
a general term grouping neoplastic pathways of the biliary tract ,  liver ,  pancreas and the gastrointestinal system .
pancreatic cancer ,  a malignant tumor of the pancreas ,  has both genetic and predisposing factors .
a general term grouping neoplastic pathways of the esophagus ,  gastric or stomach and intestinal system .
gastric cancer is the fourth most common form of cancer worldwide and has a high death rate .
a general term grouping neoplastic pathways of the upper aerodigestive system .
a general term grouping together neoplastic pathways of the sweat and sebaceous gland or of neuroectodermal and neuroendocrine origins .
a planar cell polarity wnt signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the protein exocytosis pathway involves trafficking of protein - containing vesicles to their final destination .
in the secretory pathway ,  the protein modification pathway involves the appropriate modification of glycoproteins and proteoglycans .
in the endoplasmic reticulum correctly folded proteins are targeted for further export whereas misfolded proteins are retained and targeted for degradation .
the glut family contains 14 members in mammals which can be grouped into 3 classes based on sequence similarities .
the glycolytic pathway converts the six - carbon glucose to two three - carbon pyruvate molecules .
the gluconeogenic pathway involves the synthesis of glucose from noncarbohydrate precursors .
fatty acid degradation occurs primarily via beta oxidation in the mitochondrion .
a glycogen metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a glycogen biosynthetic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a glycogen degradation pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
cell - extracellular matrix signaling pathway conveys information between cells and components of the extracellular matrix using cell adhesion molecules .
forkhead proteins represent a large family of transcription factors that regulate the expression of genes involved in cell growth ,  proliferation and survival as well as organ development and speech acquisition .
cell adhesion signaling pathway conveys information between cells or between cells and the extracellular matrix  ( ecm )  using cell adhesion molecules  ( cams )  .
those signaling pathways that are involved in or mediate the various aspects of development .
aging or the overall deteriorating change of function can be at the cellular level as well as the whole organism level .
phosphatases are essential components of biological pathways .
serine / threonine - specific phosphatase mediated signaling presents an interesting case .
the protein tyrosine phosphatase superfamily exerts essential roles in signaling pathways .
those signaling pathways mediated or initiated by oligosaccharide or polysaccharide linked proteins .
those pathways initiated or mediated by glycoproteins .
those pathways initiated or mediated by proteoglycans  -  heavily glycosylated proteins that have glycosaminoglycan  ( gag )  chain ( s )  linked to their protein cores .
glypicans are heparan sulfate proteoglycans represented by six families in mammals .
syndecan family of proteoglycans appears to be involved in cell - adhesion ,  particularly cell - extracellular matrix  ( ecm )  signaling and to integrate with the integrin pathway .
hematopoiesis refers to the formation of blood cellular components .
a dna repair pathway responsible for removing one or several damaged nucleotides or of  nucleotide mismatched during dna replication in one of the dna strands .
mismatch repair pathway assures the maintenance of normal watson - crick base pairing .
a pathway dealing with repair of double - strand breaks of the dna or of strand damage such interstrand cross links .
a single - strand dna repair pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
defective repair pathway ( s )  of double - strand breaks can lead to chromosomal rearrangements ,  genomic instability and oncogenic activation .
a mismatch repair pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a glycoprotein signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a glycoconjugated protein signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
insulin secretion by pancreatic beta - cells is an important aspect of glucose homeostasis .
glucagon is secreted by pancreatic alpha cell ;  the mechanisms of its release in response to low glucose levels are poorly understood .
glucagon signaling responds to low levels of circulating glucose to stimulate its release .
an insulin secretion pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a glucagon secretion pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a glucagon signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
fas ligand binding to its receptor triggers a conformational change that allows the receptor to assemble a signaling complex known as disc ,  followed by recruitment of pro - caspase - 8 and activation of caspase - 3 and  - 7 .
trail mediated signaling leads to apoptosis via assembly of the disc complex  ( death - inducing signaling complex )  downstream of its receptors .
a cell - cell signaling pathway mediated by integrins ,  a family of receptors that convey both 'outside - in' and 'inside - out' signals .
a cell - extracellular matrix signaling pathway mediated by integrins ,  a family of receptors that convey both 'outside - in' and 'inside - out' signals .
the metabolic pathways for generating glucose to meet the body's glucose needs .
a vasopressin signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a sugar transport pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a facilitative sugar transporter mediated sugar transport pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a glucose transport pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a facilitative sugar transporter mediated glucose transport pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a sodium - glucose cotransporter mediated glucose transport pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
an insulin responsive facilitative sugar transporter mediated glucose transport pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of biphenyl ,  an aromatic hydrocarbon used as a starting material for the production of polychlorinated biphenyls or as an intermediate for the production of a variety of organic compounds .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of geraniol ,  a monoterpenoid and an alcohol ,  used in perfumes and in flavors .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of zeatin  -  a plant hormone derived from adenine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of carotenoids ,  organic pigments found in plants and other photosynthetic organisms .
thyroid cancer refers to one of several types of malignant tumors of the thyroid gland of which papillary thyroid cancer is the most frequent ,  accounting for almost 80% of all cases .
parathyroid cancer is a rare type of cancer whose causes are unknown .
a general term grouping neoplastic pathways of the adrenal gland ,  ovaries and pancreas ,  pituitary and thyroid .
a general term grouping neoplastic pathways of the heart ,  respiratory tract and thymus .
lung cancer is one of the most common causes of cancer - related death in men but is also very common in women .
small cell lung cancer is an aggressive type of lung cancer .
non - small cell lung carcinoma groups together several non - small cell lung carcinomas .
leukemia is a cancer of the blood or bone marrow .
myeloid leukemia affects cells of the myeloid lineage and their precursors and in turn is subdivided by proliferation type .
lymphoid leukemia affects lymphoid tissues and there are increase numbers of circulating lymphoblasts and lymphocytes .
acute myeloid leukemia is a common type of leukemia among adults .
chronic myeloid leukemia ,  a slowly progressing condition ,  is a type of leukemia where too many white blood cells are made in the bone marrow .
gliomas are tumors of the brain categorized by the type of cell they are associated with ,  their location and grade .
vasopressin signaling via receptor type 1 couples to gq alpha subunit leading to stimulation of phospholipase c beta ,  subsequent generation of second messengers and increase in intracellular calcium resulting in vasoconstriction .
vasopressin signaling via receptor type 2 plays a central role in water homeostasis by regulating the translocation of aqp2 channel .
a vasopressin ,  receptor type 1 mediated signaling pathway ,  that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a vasopressin ,  receptor type 2 mediated signaling pathway ,  that deviates from what its normal course should be .
transcription factors mediated signaling are components of transcription that ,  by controlling the expression of target genes ,  impact upon a wide range of processes .
the signaling pathway mediated by the foxo subgroup of forkhead family of transcription factors regulates cell cycle and survival via the expression of its target genes .
p53 transcription factor is a tumor suppressor frequently mutated in cancer .
a transcription factor mediated signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a p53 signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nicotine ,  an alkaloid found in tobacco and other plants .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of warfarin .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of anti - diabetic drugs such as repaglinide ,  nateglinide and sulfonylurea  -  inhibitors of atp - dependent potassium channel .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of statin .
the pathway of anti - diabetic drugs - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to them .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of repaglinide .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nateglinide .
the pathway of statins - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of statin .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of warfarin .
the pathway of warfarin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those metabolic reactions involving thromboxanes  -  a family of prostanoid eicosanoids whose effects include vasoconstriction and platelet aggregation .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of glycosphingolipids  -  glycolipids with sugar ( s )  attached to the ceramide core .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of cerebroside ,  sphingolipids in which the sugar is a monosaccharide .
a sphingolipid metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the de novo synthesis of triacylglycerol ,  the common form of fatty acid transport and storage .
the degradation pathway of triacylglycerols when the energy reserves are low such as in the fasting state ,  during exercise or in response to stress .
fatty acid degradation via beta oxidation ,  the most common fatty acid degradation pathway ,  occurs in four reactions resulting in the formation of acetyl - coa and a fatty acyl - coa two carbon shorter than the one that began the cycle .
the degradation of branched - chain fatty acids is carried out by the alpha oxidation pathway .
the pathway of unsaturated fatty acids requires additional enzymes .
a ganglioside metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a glycoshingolipid metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of galactocerebroside ,  a cerebroside in which the monosaccharide is galactose .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of glucocerebroside ,  a cerebroside in which the monosaccharide is glucose .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of sphingomyelin  -  a sphingolipid found abundantly in the myelin sheath of nerve cells .
a sphingomyelin metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a galactocerebroside metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a cerebroside metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a glucocerebroside metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
an isoprenoid metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
an isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a cholesterol biosynthetic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the sterol regulatory element - binding protein  ( srebp )  pathway has important roles in the control of lipid and cholesterol metabolism .
the pharmacokinetics and the pharmacodynamics pathway elicited by the administration of specific drugs .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of benzodiazepines ,  a class of drugs acting upon the central nervous system .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of benzodiazepines .
the pathway of benzodiazepine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of gemcitabine ,  a cytidine analogue that is administered as a prodrug for the treatment of certain types of cancer .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of gemcitabine .
the pathway of gemcitabine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of celecoxib ,  a selective cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor used for the treatment of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of celecoxib  -  a selective inhibitor of cyclooxygenase 2 used for the treatment of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis .
the pathway of celecoxib - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of ifosfamide ,  am antitumor agent used in the treatment of certain cancers .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of ifosfamide ,  a prodrug used against solid tumors .
the pathway of ifosfamide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of omeprazole ,  a proton pump inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of omeprazole ,  a representative compound of a class of proton pump inhibitors .
the pathway of omeprazole - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of c19 - steroid hormones .
mineralocorticoids are a group of c21 steroid hormones synthesized by the adrenal cortex and so named because of their effects on the concentration of sodium as well as potassium and chloride .
glucocorticoids are a group of c21 steroid hormones synthesized by the adrenal cortex and so named because of their effects on glucose metabolism .
aldosterone is a c21 mineralocorticoid produced in the outer zone ,  the zona glomerulosa ,  of the adrenal cortex from the cholesterol precursor .
cortisol is a c21 glucocorticoid produced in the middle zone ,  the zona fasciculata ,  of the adrenal cortex from the cholesterol precursor .
an epidermal growth factor / neuregulin signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of acetoacetate and beta - hydroxybutyrate also known as ketone bodies although only acetoacetate is a ketone .
those metabolic reactions that convert acetoacetate and beta - hydroxybutyrate back to acetyl - coa which then can enter the citrate cycle for energy production .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of testosterone ,  a c19 - steroid hormone secreted primarily in the testes and ovaries and to a lesser extend by the adrenal glands .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of dehydroepiandrosterone ,  a c19 steroid hormone produced in the adrenal cortex and a primary precursor of estrogens .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of c18 - steroid hormones .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of estradiol ,  the major c18 steroid hormone .
glucocorticoids ,  c21 - steroid hormones ,  initiate signaling by binding to their specific nuclear receptor to regulate metabolism ,  development and immune response .
mineralocorticoids ,  c21 steroid hormones ,  initiate signaling by binding to their cognate receptor to regulate water and mineral levels .
an androgen signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
glucose - dependent insulinotropic peptide signaling plays an important role in promoting insulin secretion .
glucagon - like peptide - 1 signaling pathway plays an important role in promoting insulin secretion .
epinephrine acts as a hormone and a neurotransmitter .
norepinephrine acts as a hormone and a neurotransmitter .
epinephrine acts as a hormone and a neurotransmitter .
epinephrine acts as a hormone and a neurotransmitter .
epinephrine acts as a hormone and a neurotransmitter .
norepinephrine acts as a hormone and a neurotransmitter .
norepinephrine acts as a hormone and a neurotransmitter .
norepinephrine acts as a hormone and a neurotransmitter .
catecholamines act as hormones and neurotransmitters .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of adrenergic beta receptors drugs  -  beta - agonists and blockers .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of beta adrenergic receptor drugs .
the pathway of beta adrenergic drug - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of dopamine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of epinephrine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of norepinephrine .
a trail mediated signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a fasl mediated signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a transcription pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
micrornas  ( mirnas )  are a large family of small rnas involved in the post transcriptional regulation of gene expression .
the small non - coding rna pathways have emerged as potent regulators of gene expression .
piwi - rna  ( pirnas )  are believed to play a role in gene silencing ,  particularly the silencing of transposons as many
a small non - coding rna pathway that deviates from what its normal course should .
a microrna pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
toll - like receptors represent a large and the better understood family of pattern recognition receptors that sense an array of exogenous structures and recent evidence shows they can also recognize defective endogenous molecules .
c - type lectin receptors represent one of four classes of pattern recognition receptors .
this family of pattern recognition receptors are cytoplasmic proteins that recognize exogenous cytoplasmic dna .
nod - like receptors are cytosolic proteins that recognize components of bacterial peptidoglycans .
those signaling pathways that are involved in or mediate the various aspects of immune responses .
t cell receptor  ( tcr )  signaling in developing thymocytes is important for the establishment of cd4 and cd8 lineages .
antigen recognition by b cell receptors initiates signaling cascades that activate the expression of genes whose products are important for b cell functional responses .
humoral immunity is mediated by antibodies secreted by the b cell lymphocytes .
cell - mediated immune response pathways are carried out by t cell lymphocytes .
the pathways of antigen processing and presentation assure the generation of peptides that have the structural attributes necessary for the association with and their placement near major histocompatibility complex  ( mhc )  molecules .
t cells that express the cd4 co - receptor ,  also called t helper cells ,  recognize class ii mhc presented antigens derived from internalized microbes to initiate a signaling cascade that results in enhanced microbicidal capacity of phagocytes .
t cells that express the cd8 co - receptor ,  also called cytotoxic or cytolytic t cells ,  recognize class i mhc presented antigens derived from cytosolic proteins to initiate a signaling cascade that results in killing of the target cell .
cytokine initiated signaling pathways play important roles in innate and adaptive immunity ,  as well as cell proliferation and apoptosis .
chemokine initiated pathways play important roles in the innate and adaptive immunity .
the cxc family members are characterized by the presence of two cysteine resides separated by one amino acid .
the cc family members are characterized by the presence of two adjacent cysteine residues .
the c family of chemokine is small and its members have two rather than four cysteines residues .
the cx3x family of chemokine is small and characterized by the presence of three residues separating the first two cysteines .
bile acid absorption by the intestinal epithelium and hepatic recycling collectively group the transport pathway of the important molecules of cholesterol catabolism .
breast cancer is a major cause of death among western women and many breast tumors are estrogen - dependent .
aromatase inhibitors block the last step of estrogen biosynthesis .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of tamoxifen  -  one of the most widely used anti - estrogen drug that targets the estrogen receptor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of tamoxifen  -  a serm anti - estrogen drug .
the pathway of tamoxifen - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
protein kinase c constitutes a family of serine / threonine kinases activated by diacylglycerol  ( dag )  and calcium whose signal transduction plays important roles in many cellular processes .
acetylcholine signaling plays important roles in the central and peripheral nervous system and exerts both excitatory and inhibitory effects .
activation of the pentameric ionotropic nicotinic acetylcholine receptor leads to membrane depolarization and subsequent excitatory transmission .
acetylcholine signaling via the metabotropic muscarinic receptors exerts important roles in the central and peripheral nervous system ,  the autonomic nervous system and also in non - neuronal cells .
glutamate signaling via the ionotropic ampa or nmda and several metabotropic receptors plays important roles in the modulation of synaptic plasticity ,  long term depression or potentiation ,  and in learning and memory .
glutamate signaling via the ionotropic nmda glutamate receptor plays important roles in synaptic plasticity and in learning and memory .
glutamate signaling via the ionotropic ampa receptor plays important roles in long - term potentiation  ( ltp )  .
glutamate signaling via the various metabotropic ,  g protein - coupled receptors plays important roles in both the central and peripheral nervous systems .
gamma - aminobutyric acid signals at inhibitory synapses via the type a receptor ,  which is part of a ligand - gated ion channel and the type b receptors which are metabotropic ,  g protein - coupled receptors .
dopamine signaling via d1 - like receptors engages the galphas family of g proteins leading to activation of adenylyl cyclases and increase in intracellular camp .
dopamine signaling via d2 - like family of receptors engages the galphai family of g proteins leading to inhibition of adenylyl cyclases and reduction of intracellular camp .
histamine signaling is important for the central and to some extent the peripheral nervous systems and is also involved in the immune responses .
serotonin signaling exerts many roles ,  from regulation of appetite ,  mood and sleep to involvement in learning and memory and in muscle contraction .
acetylcholine signaling via receptor type m1 ,  m3 and m5 primarily engages g alphaq protein family resulting in activation of phospholipase c and mobilization of intracellular calcium .
acetylcholine signaling via receptor type m2 and m4 primarily engages g alphai protein family resulting in inhibition of adenylate cyclases and reduction of intracellular camp .
phase i biotransformation pathway involves the conversion of exogenous substances to more polar metabolites .
phase ii biotransformation pathway involves the conjugation of phase i products to various hydrophilic moieties that renders them more suitable for excretion .
glucuronidation of phase i products by members of the udp - glucuronosyltranferase superfamily represents the major phase ii conjugation pathway .
the sulfonation of phase i products by members of the sulfotransferase family represents a major route of phase ii biotransformation ,  second to the glucuronidation pathway .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the synthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides .
in the de novo biosynthetic pathway ,  pyrimidines are synthesized from simple precursors .
the salvage pathway of pyrimidine biosynthesis ,  mostly used in resting and differentiated cells ,  allows for the synthesis of pyrimidines from intermediates derived from dna and rna degradation pathways .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation of pyrimidines .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the synthesis of purine nucleotides .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the degradation pathway of purines .
de novo purine biosynthesis requires ten enzymatic reactions to produce inosine monophosphate  ( imp )  .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of gefitinib .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of gefitinib .
the pathway of gefitinib - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of erlotinib .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of erlotinib .
the pathway of erlotinib - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
deoxyribonucleotide synthesis occurs via the de novo pathway mediated by ribonucleotide reductase or via the salvage pathway .
those metabolic reaction involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of polysaccharides that are components of bacterial cell wall .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of cytosine monophosphate ,  the only nucleotide sugar in the monophosphate form .
phosphatidylcholine is the predominant phospholipid of eukaryotic membranes .
a cortisol signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the interleukin - 1 family mediated signaling plays important roles in innate and adaptive immune responses .
interleukin - 1 signaling ,  primarily via interleukin - 1beta ,  plays important roles in innate and adaptive immune responses .
interleukin - 18 signaling plays important roles in innate and adaptive immunity .
interleukin - 33 is the most recently discovered member of the interleukin - 1 family .
interleukin - 22 signaling triggers the jak - stat intracellular cascade resulting in the activation of various t helper  ( th )  cells .
the interferons represent a subset of cytokines whose signaling is involved in various aspects of innate and adaptive immunity .
type i interferon ,  which includes all but one of the seven known human genes ,  binds to distinct receptors that activate the jak - stat signaling pathway .
type ii interferon ,  of which there is only one in humans ,  binds to distinct receptors that activate jak - stat signaling pathway .
the interleukin - 17 family mediated signaling plays important roles in inflammation and the development of autoimmunity as well as in the host defense against fungal and bacterial infections .
interleukin - 17e signaling ,  also known as interleukin - 25 ,  induces the production of th2 cell cytokine leading to enhancement of th2 cell responses .
of the six family members of interleukin - 17 family ,  interleukin - 17a is the founding member and the better characterized system .
interleukin - 17f binds the same receptor as interleukin - 17a and can also heterodimerize with it .
an interleukin mediated signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
interleukin - 2 family of cytokines ,  also known as gamma ( c )  family because of the shared gamma ( c )  receptor ,  plays crucial roles in the regulation of t cells .
interleukin - 2 is the prototypical member of the interleukin - 2 family of cytokines .
interleukin - 4 is a member of interleukin 2 family of cytokine whose signaling is important for the differentiation of naive t helper cells .
interleukin - 12 family members of heterodimeric cytokines are produced by antigen presenting cells .
interleukin - 12 signaling activates the jak - stat intracellular cascade and promotes the differentiation and proliferation of th1 cells and the production of interferon - gamma .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of proton pump inhibitor  ( ppi )  ,  a class of compounds that block the acid secretion from parietal cells in the stomach .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used as antineoplastic or as immunomodulatory agents .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used for the treatment of various cardiovascular conditions .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used for the treatment of alimentary tract and metabolism - related conditions .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used for the treatment of conditions associated with blood and blood forming organs .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used for the treatment of conditions associated with the nervous system .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used for the treatment of conditions associated with the respiratory system .
pattern recognition receptors  ( prr )  respond to a diverse array of exogenous molecules and also several endogenous ones .
an early response of the innate immunity is the secretion of cytokines critical for the acute inflammatory response .
tumor necrosis factor  ( tnf )  inhibitors are used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis .
tocilizumab is a humanized anti - interleukin 6  ( il - 6 )  receptor antibody used in the treatment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis ,  castleman's disease or juvenile idiopathic arthritis .
anakinra is a recombinant ,  non - glycosylated version of the human interleukin - 1  ( il - 1 )  receptor antagonist used for the treatment of inflammation associated with rheumatoid arthritis .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of methotrexate  ( mtx )  ,  a polyglutamatable antifolate used in the treatment of cancers and autoimmune diseases .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of methotrexate  ( mtx )  ,  a folate analogue used in the treatment of cancers and autoimmune diseases .
the pathway of methotrexate - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
tumor necrosis factor member 14 ,  also known as light ,  binds the lymphotoxin beta receptor and the tumor necrosis receptor member 14 known as hvem of the tumor necrosis receptor superfamily to elicit important responses for the dendritic  ( dc )  and t cells of the immune system .
tumor necrosis factor member 13 also known as april ,  binds the tumor necrosis factor receptor member 13b known as taci and receptor member 17 known as bcma of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily to elicit important responses for the b cells of the immune system .
the tumor necrosis factor member 13b known as baff binds to three receptors of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily  -  the receptor member 13b known as taci and member 17 known as bcma to which member 13 of the ligand superfamily also binds ,  and additionally to member 13c of the receptor superfamily to elicit important responses for the b cells of the immune system .
chemokine ligand 1 signaling engages the chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptor 8  ( ccr8 )  and together with other cc chemokines is classified as a member of the allergenic subgroup .
chemokine ligand 1 signaling engages the chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptor 2  ( ccr2 )  and together with other cc chemokines is classified as a member of the allergenic subgroup .
chemokine ligand 3 signaling pathway engages chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptors 2 and 5  ( ccr2 and ccr5 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the pro - inflammatory subgroup .
chemokine ligand 4 signaling engages the chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptor 5  ( ccr5 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the pro - inflammatory subgroup .
chemokine ligand 5 signaling engages chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptors 1 ,  3 and 5  ( ccr1 ,  ccr3 and ccr5 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the pro - inflammatory subgroup .
chemokine ligand 6 signaling is known to act in rodents and does not appear to have a human equivalent .
chemokine ligand 7 signaling engages chemokine  ( c - c )  motif receptors 1 ,  2 ,  and 3  ( ccr1 ,  ccr2 ,  ccr3 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the allergenic subgroup .
chemokine ligand 8 signaling engages chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptors 3 and 5  ( ccr3 and ccr5 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the allergenic subgroup .
chemokine ligand 11 signaling engages the chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptor 3  ( ccr3 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the allergenic subgroup .
chemokine ligand 12 signaling is known to act in rodents and does not appear to have a human equivalent .
chemokine ligand 13 signaling engages chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptors 2 and 3  ( ccr2 and ccr3 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the allergenic subgroup .
chemokine ligand 17 signaling engages the chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptor 4  ( ccr4 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the developmental subgroup .
chemokine ligand 22 signaling engages the chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptor 4  ( ccr4 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as member of the developmental subgroup .
chemokine ligand 25 signaling engages the chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptor 9  ( ccr9 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the developmental subgroup .
chemokine ligand 24 signaling engages the chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptor 3  ( ccr3 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as member of the allergenic subgroup .
chemokine ligand 26 signaling engages the chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptor 3  ( ccr3 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as member of the allergenic subgroup .
chemokine ligand 14 signaling engages chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptors 1 and 5  ( ccr1 and ccr5 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the hcc  ( hemofiltrate cc chemokine )  subgroup .
chemokine ligand 15 signaling engages chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptors 1 and 3  ( ccr1 and ccr3 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the hcc  ( hemofiltrate cc chemokine )  subgroup .
chemokine ligand 16 signaling engages chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptors 1 and 2  ( ccr1 and ccr2 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the hcc  ( hemofiltrate cc chemokine )  subgroup .
chemokine ligand 23 signaling engages the chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptor 1  ( ccr1 )  and together with other chemokines is classified as a member of the hcc  ( hemofiltrate cc chemokine )  subgroup .
chemokine ligand 27 signaling engages chemokine  ( c - c motif )  receptor 10  ( ccr10 )  and does not appear to be a member of any of the chemokines subgroups .
chemokine  ( c - x - c )  ligand 1belongs to the growth - related oncogene  ( gro )  subgroup whose signaling engages receptor 2 and promotes chemotaxis of neutrophils .
the signaling pathway mediated by the foxa subgroup of forkhead family of transcription factors plays important roles in development and in modulating steroid hormone signaling .
sphingosine 1 - phosphate  ( s1p )  ,  a sphingolipid metabolite ,  can signal intracellularly as a second messenger or extracellularly as a ligand for five g protein coupled receptors .
ceramide signaling can act as a lipid second messenger or as a mediator of various cellular signaling pathways by promoting receptor clustering .
the signaling pathway initiated by light induced isomerization of 11 - cis retinal and subsequent activation of its photoreceptors in rods and cones .
phosphatidylinositol kinases represent a family of lipid kinases that phosphorylate the 3' position of the inositol ring in target substrates .
phosphatidylinositol kinases represent a family of lipid kinases that phosphorylate the 3' position of the inositol ring in target substrates .
phosphatidylinositol kinases represent a family of lipid kinases that phosphorylate the 3' position of the inositol ring in target substrates .
interleukin - 3 ,  interleukin 5 and granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factors family of hemopoietic cytokine mediate overlapping and distinct signals .
interleukin - 3 signaling plays important roles in the function of hematopoietic cells .
interleukin - 5 signaling plays important roles in the function of hematopoietic cells .
gm - csf signaling ,  like the other hemopoietic cytokines ,  is involved in the production and activation of hemopoietic cells .
the cxc chemokine elr (  +  )  subgroup mediated signaling primarily engages receptor 2 to promote angiogenic effects .
cxc chemokine  ( elr -  )  subgroup mediated signaling primarily engages receptor 3 to promote angiostatic effects .
chemokine  ( c - x - c )  ligand 2 belongs to the growth - related oncogene  ( gro )  subgroup whose signaling engages receptor 2 to promote chemotaxis of neutrophils .
chemokine  ( c - x - c )  ligand 3 belongs to the growth - related oncogene  ( gro )  subgroup whose signaling engages receptor 2 to promote chemotaxis of neutrophils .
chemokine  ( c - x - c )  ligand 5 signaling engages receptor 2 to exert potent chemotactic functions in neutrophil activation .
chemokine  ( c - x - c0 )  ligand 6 engages receptors 1 and 2 to promote chemoattraction of neutrophils and angiogenic effects ,  respectively .
chemokine  ( c - x - c )  ligand 8 ,  also known as interleukin - 8  ( il - 8 )  ,  although a chemokine ,  engages receptor 1 and 2 to promote angiogenic effects .
chemokine  ( c - x - c )  ligand 4 signaling engages receptor 3 to promote angiostatic effects .
chemokine  ( c - x - c )  ligand 9 engages receptor 3 to promote angiostatic effects .
chemokine  ( c - x - c )  ligand 10 signaling engages receptor 3 to promote angiostatic effects .
chemokine  ( c - x - c )  ligand 11 signaling engages receptor 3 to promote angiostatic effects .
erythropoietin  ( epo )  signaling is crucial for the production of blood cell or erythropoiesis and also plays important roles in wound healing and responses to neural injury .
classical cadherins ,  such as e -  or n - cadherin are single - span transmembrane proteins with five extracellular cadherin repeats and a conserved cytoplasmic tail .
desmosomal cadherins ,  which can be further subdivided into two subgroups ,  possess the five cadherin repeats but have distinct cytoplasmic tails .
protocadherin represent a very large family which can be further subdivided into two groups .
the atypical ,  or unconventional group includes the seven transmembrane  ( 7tm )  ,  gpcr - like cadherins with up to nine cadherin repeats along with egf - like and laminin motifs ,  the large fat and the t - cadherin proteins .
e - cadherin or the epithelial cadherin encoded by the cdh1 gene ,  is a member of the classical cadherin family and among the best studied cadherin pathway .
n - cadherin ,  or neuronal cadherin ,  is predominantly expressed in the brain .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used as anti - infective agents .
adenosine signaling is involved in the regulation of several physiological processes .
adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  extracellular signaling activates the p2x ligand - gated ion channels that are permeable to sodium ,  potassium and calcium ions .
the p2y receptors are a class of purinergic or purinoreceptors ,  gprotein - coupled receptors that respond to adp ,  atp ,  udp ,  utp and udp - glucose to activate either the galphaq or the galphai mediated signal transduction pathways .
those metabolic reactions involving the fat - soluble vitamin a and its metabolites .
the reactions involved in deriving retinoic acid  ( ra )  from retinal and its further processing to more polar derivatives .
the series of reactions involved in the regeneration of the visual chromophore 11 - cis retinal from the all - trans retinal released from the light  - activated rhodopsin .
those pathways involved in the proper balance of vitamin levels ,  uptake and transport ,  utilization and storage ,  as demanded by the needs of cells tissues and organs .
the pathways involved in the balanced maintenance of vitamin a and vitamin a metabolites uptake and transport ,  utilization and storage ,  as demanded by the needs of cells ,  tissues and organs .
those metabolic reactions involving ascorbic acid ,  known as vitamin c ,  a water - soluble vitamin .
those metabolic reactions involving niacin ,  also known as vitamin b3 or vitamin pp  -  a water - soluble vitamin .
those metabolic reactions involving vitamin d  -  a fat - soluble vitamin .
vitamin and metabolites of vitamin in addition to representing important nutrients and aid in cellular metabolism can also ,  in a hormone - like manner ,  acts as signaling molecules .
the active vitamin d metabolite plays important roles in cell growth and differentiation and in immunity .
retinoic acid ,  a vitamin a - derived metabolite plays important roles in development and cell differentiation .
those metabolic reactions involving vitamin e  -  a fat - soluble vitamin which represents a class of chemical compounds known as tocopherols .
those metabolic reactions involving vitamin k  -  a fat - soluble vitamin which represents a group of related compounds .
renal cell cancer ,  although representing a small percentage of human neoplasms ,  has one of the highest rates of mortality amongst genitourinary cancers .
rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune condition characterized by persistent inflammation .
basal cell carcinoma is the most common form of skin cancer that is mostly sporadic .
melanoma is a form of skin cancer which ,  despite being less common than other forms of skin malignancies ,  can be dangerous if not detected earlier ,  and accounts for the highest percentage of skin cancer related deaths .
asthma ,  a complex condition with many phenotypic manifestations ,  is primarily characterized by inflammation of the airways .
systemic lupus erythematosus  ( sle )  is an autoimmune condition that can affect many parts of the body and which ,  although treatable ,  does not have a cure .
autoimmune thyroid disease  ( aitd )  groups several conditions that are generally relatively mild but that can progress to serious symptoms .
allograft or transplant rejection results from the recipient's autoimmune response to non - self antigens .
graft - versus - host disease  ( gvhd )  is a complication following transplantation of cells ,  tissues or organs from a genetically non - identical donor in which the donor t cells attack the host cells .
primary immunodeficiency groups disorders that result from the immune system malfunctioning that affect both cell - mediated and humoral immunity pathways .
infectious diseases are caused by pathogens that have gained access to the host organism and have managed to avoid the host defense mechanisms while taking over some of the host pathways .
prolonged use of cocaine results in cardiovascular and brain damage .
amphetamine is believed to promote an elevation in extracellular dopamine .
morphine ,  an effective pain killer drug ,  can also be extremely addictive .
nicotine ,  like the other addictive substances ,  impacts on the dopaminergic and mesolimbic reward circuitries .
the mechanisms of alcohol dependence ,  or alcoholism ,  are not well understood .
arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy  ( arvc )  represents an inherited heart muscle condition leading to arrhythmia and heart failure that could results in death .
dilated cardiomyopathy  ( dcm )  is a condition in which the heart is weakened and enlarged resulting in inefficient blood pumping .
myocarditis is a condition associated with inflammation of the heart muscle that can have both infectious and non - infectious etiologies ,  with the former being the primary cause .
maturity onset diabetes of the young  ( mody )  represents any of a number of hereditary ,  monogenic forms of diabetes caused by mutations in several genes .
vibrio cholerae disease is an infection of the small intestine resulting in dehydration and electrolyte imbalance which in some cases can cause death .
salmonella ,  a gram - negative bacterium of which  many species exist ,  in humans can cause gastroenteritis or the more severe typhoid fever .
the pathogenic escherichia coli strains epec and ehec  ( enteropathogenic and enterohemorrhagic e . coli ,  respectively )  can cause sever food poisoning in humans .
shigella ,  a gram - negative bacterium that is related to salmonella and to escherichia coli ,  is a disease causing agent in humans and primates .
the gram - negative bordetella pertusis gram - negative is the causative agent of pertussis or whooping cough .
legionella ,  a pathogenic gram - negative bacterium that includes species such as legionella pneumophila ,  causes several respiratory infections of which legionnaires' disease is potentially fatal .
staphylococcus aureus ,  a gram - positive bacteria of which there are many species ,  usually colonizes the skin and mucous membranes of humans and other organisms and are mostly harmless .
mycobacterium tuberculosis is the causative agent of most forms of tuberculosis .
leishmania is a protozoan parasite and a number of its species can infect mammals ,  including humans .
trypanosoma is a protozoan parasite of which t brucei and cruzi are responsible for causing the sleeping sickness and chagas disease ,  respectively .
trypanosoma brucei ,  a protozoan parasite ,  is the causative agent of sleeping sickness ,  also known as the african trypanosomiasis ,  as its vector is the tsetse fly common to sub - saharan africa .
trypanosoma cruzi is the causative agent of the chagas disease ,  also known as the american trypanosomiasis ,  as it occurs primarily in poor areas of the americas ,  mostly central and south america .
several species of the protozoan parasite plasmodium can infect humans and cause malaria .
toxoplasma gondii ,  whose hosts include various warm - blooded species including humans ,  is the causative agent of toxoplasmosis .
entamoeba histolyca is a protozoan parasite that is the causative agent of amoebiasis which affects the intestinal tissue leading to severe dysentery and ulcerations .
the influenza a virus is the causative agent of seasonal epidemics and occasional pandemics of influenza which affects the respiratory system .
the hepatitis c virus is the causative agent of hepatitis c ,  a chronic liver disease in humans .
the measles virus  ( mv )  of the genus morbillivirus is the causative agent of the condition that bears its name .
oxidative phosphorylation is the coupling of the electron transport chain and the atp biosynthetic pathways .
primary bile acids ,  cholic and  chenodeoxycholic acids ,  are derived from cholesterol in the liver .
secondary bile acids ,  deoxycholic and lithocholic acids ,  are synthesized from the primary ones by intestinal bacteria .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of lacto - series type of glycosphingolipids .
the metabolic reactions involving lipoic acid ,  a compound derived from octanoic acid that contains two sulfur centers .
those metabolic reactions involving phosphonate and phosphinate ,  organic compounds that contain carbon - phosphorus bonds and which can be synthesized by bacteria and protists .
interstrand cross links  ( icl )  of dna can be induced by both endogenous and exogenous ligands .
the pathway of ribosome biogenesis starts with the transcription of rrna precursors ,  involves the co - transciptional events of pre - rrna processing and the assembly of pre - ribosomal particles .
alterations in the pathway result in specific phenotypes collectively known as ribosomopathies .
gonadotropin - releasing hormone signaling pathway induces the synthesis and secretion of luteinizing and follicle - stimulating hormones from the pituitary .
lutenizing hormone signaling is important for the normal development and function of the ovaries and testes .
follicle - stimulating hormone signaling is important for the normal development and function of the ovaries and testes .
the spliceosome is a multimegadalton ribonucleoprotein complex that removes the exons to produce the mature mrna ,  including several mature mrnas from a single rna transcript via alternative splicing .
those metabolic reactions involving hydrophobic ,  uncharged amino acids .
those metabolic reactions involving hydrophilic ,  polar amino acids .
those metabolic reactions involving special amino acids .
those metabolic reactions involving amino acids as listed in the kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes  ( kegg )  .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of proline ,  a non - essential amino acid that could be essential in certain cases .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of valine ,  an essential amino acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of lysine ,  an essential amino acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of arginine ,  a non - essential amino acid that could be essential in certain cases .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of asparagine ,  a non - essential amino acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of serine ,  a non - essential amino acid that could be essential in certain cases .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of threonine ,  an essential amino acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of glutamine ,  a non - essential amino acid that could be essential in certain cases .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of isoleucine ,  an essential amino acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of leucine ,  an essential amino acid .
serotonin signaling via receptor family 1 and 5 primarily engages g alphai protein family resulting in inhibition of adenylate cyclases and reduction of intracellular camp .
serotonin signaling via receptor family 2 engages g alphaq protein family resulting in activation of phospholipase c ,  mobilization of calcium ions and production of inositol 1 , 4 , 5 - triphosphate  ( ip3 )  and diacylglycerol  ( dag )  .
serotonin signaling via receptor family 4 ,  6 ,  and 7 engages g alphas protein family resulting in activation of adenylyl cyclases and increased concentration of camp .
serotonin family 3 receptor is a ligand - gated na +  / k +  channel with two receptor subtypes and their heterodimerization is believed to be necessary for their function .
bile acid binds to and activates several nuclear receptors such as the farnesoid x and liver x receptors as well as a cell surface g - protein coupled receptor .
disregulated estrogen signaling is associated with the growth and development of breast cancers ;  estrogen mediated transcription is constitutively active in more than 50% of cases .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of zidovudine ,  an anti - viral drug used for the treatment of hiv infection .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of zidovudine ,  a drug used for the treatment of hiv .
the pathway of zidovudine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of tramadol ,  an analgesic used for the treatment of moderate to moderately severe pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of tramadol ,  an analgesic used in the treatment of pain .
the pathway of tramadol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a number of human viruses have been shown to be associated / contribute to approximately 10 to 15% of cancers .
a hypoxia inducible pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the pathways that respond to and control the levels of protons ,  bicarbonate and carbon dioxide and of ammonia the cells .
the pathway that respond to increases or decreases in protons ,  or ph levels and whose signaling aim at restoring systemic acid - base balance .
the signaling pathway elicited by changes in ph and bicarbonate levels .
the signaling pathway elicited by increased levels of bicarbonate .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of sorafenib ,  a multikinase inhibitor used in the treatment of cancer ,  in particular for advanced renal cell carcinoma .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of sorafenib .
the pathway of sorafenib - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of sunitinib ,  a multikinase inhibitor used in the treatment of cancer ,  in particular for advanced renal cell carcinoma .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of sunitinib .
the pathway of sunitinib - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a signaling cascade triggered by light in the visible and red spectrum whose sensor appears to be cytochrome c oxidase ,  the terminal enzyme of the electron transfer chain ,  and which relies on a retrograde mitochondrion - to - nucleus pathway that translates in the upregulation of various genes .
a signaling pathway mediated by a signaling complex for which retinol or vitamin a appears to be an essential docking molecule and redox sensor .
defects in components of the citrate cycle have been shown to relate to several types of cancer .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of bevacizumab ,  a humanized monoclonal antibody that inhibits vegf activity .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of bevacizumab ,  a vegf inhibitor used in the treatment of several types of  tumors .
the pathway of bevacizumab - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of axitinib ,  a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor used in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma as well as other tumors .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of axitinib ,  a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor used in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma and other tumors .
the pathway of axitinib - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of everolimus ,  an inhibitor of mtor pathway used in the treatment of several types of tumors ,  including renal cell carcinoma .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of everolimus ,  an inhibitor of mtor pathway used in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma and other tumors .
the pathway of everolimus - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of temsirolimus ,  an inhibitor of mtor pathway used in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma and other types of tumors .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of temsirolimus ,  an inhibitor of mtor pathway used in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma and other tumors .
the pathway of temsirolimus - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of pazopanib ,  a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor used in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma as well as other tumors .
he pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of pazopanib .
the pathway of pazopanib - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  signaling is important for calcium and phosphate homeostasis in bone and kidney .
the c16 palmitate product of fatty acid biosynthetic pathway can be esterifed to triacylglycerol or converted to longer chain saturated and unsaturated fatty acid molecules by elongases and desaturases ,  depending on the needs of the cell .
the c16 palmitate product of fatty acid biosynthetic pathway can be esterifed to triacylglycerol or converted to longer chain saturated and unsaturated fatty acid molecules by elongases and desaturases ,  depending on the needs of the cell .
those metabolic reactions involving ether lipids ,  lipid molecules in which one or several of the carbons on glycerol has an ether linkage to an alkyl chain .
calcium is pumped into organelles or outside the cell by pumps and exchangers to maintain the low calcium concentration necessary for cell viability .
calcium signaling impacts on a large and diverse spectrum of cellular processes such as gene expression and cell death ,  proliferation ,  muscle contraction and energy metabolism ,  learning ,  memory and synaptic plasticity .
calcium signaling through the calcium - sensing receptor inhibits the secretion of parathyroid hormone in the parathyroid glands and controls calcium absorption and water balance in the kidneys .
the clathrin - mediated endocytosis pathway involves clathrin - coated vesicles used for the engulfment of material .
phagocytosis pathway is used for the removal of unwanted material such as dying cells and also of foreign material .
the signaling cascade initiated by an activated fc gamma receptor .
hepatitis b virus  ( hbv )  is the causative agent of hepatitis b ,  an inflammatory condition of the liver affecting people in parts of asia and africa .
the human t - lymphotropic virus type 1  ( htlv - 1 )  is a pathogenic retrovirus causing a type of cancer known as adult t - cell leukemia and lymphoma and a demyelinating condition referred to as htlv - 1 associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis  ( ham / tsp )  .
fc receptors mediated signaling exerts important regulatory and modulatory roles in immunity .
the signaling cascade initiated by an activated fc epsilon receptor .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of steroids .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of caffeine ,  a xanthine alkaloid found in the seeds ,  leaves ,  and fruit of certain plants that humans use as a stimulant .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of glycosaminoglycans .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of butirosin and neomycin  - aminoglycoside antibiotics produced by bacillus circulans and streptomyces fradiae ,  respectively .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of glycerolipids which are composed of mono -  ,  di -  ,  and tri - substituted glycerols .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization or degradation of alpha - linoleic acid  -  an unsaturated omega - 3 fatty acid .
aminoacyl - trna ,  or transfer rna  ( trna )  carries amino acids to ribosomes and is part of the translation pathway .
the pathway whereby various rna molecules synthesized in the nucleus are exported to the cytoplasm to be further processed such as protein - coding mrna or to fulfill particular functions .
the turnover of rna molecules produced by the three eukaryotic polymerases and those resulting from their processing and / or assembly .
the signaling pathway initiated by a chemical entity .
cannabinoids are a class of rather diverse chemical compounds of which some ,  like endocannabinoids are naturally produced by the body in humans and other animals ,  while others are found in plants or are synthesized .
the signaling pathway initiated by the endogenous cannabinoids that activate the g protein coupled  ( gpcr )  cannabinoid receptors and utilize a retrograde route from the postsynaptic to the presynaptic neuron .
parathyroid hormone related peptide  ( pthlh )  signaling exerts pleiotropic roles ,  unlike the related parathyroid hormone whose specific role is in calcium and phosphate homeostasis .
altered calcium signaling due to mutations in the calcium - sensing receptor has been associated with a number of conditions .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used for the treatment of conditions associated with the musculo - skeletal system .
tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues  ( tip39 )  is encoded by the parathyroid hormone 2 gene ,  weakly homologous to parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  and parathyroid hormone - like hormone  ( pthrp )  .
fibroblast growth factor  ( fgf )  signaling involves more than 20 proteins involved in embryonic and postnatal development and for some members ,  also acting as hormones in the adult .
the fibroblast growth factors  ( fgf )   also known as fgf homologous factors belong to the phylogenetic subfamily fgf11 / 12 / 13 / 14 .
paracrine fibroblast growth factors  ( fgf )  are represented by five phylogenetic subfamilies whose signaling ,  also referred to as canonical ,  is involved in the well known role of fgf in embryonic and postnatal development .
the endocrine fibroblast growth factors  ( fgf )  also known as hormone - like belong to the 15 / 19 / 21 / 23 phylogenetic subfamily ,  also referred to as fgf19 subfamily .
deregulation of endocrine fibroblast growth factor signaling pathway has been associated with several paraneoplastic and metabolic diseases that include renal failure ,  cushing's syndrome ,  type 2 diabetes and obesity ,  among others .
deregulation of the intracrine fibroblast growth factor signaling pathway has been associated with several neurodegenerative disorders and also with mental retardation .
deregulation of the paracrine fibroblast growth factor signaling pathway has been associated with several congenital disorders .
fibroblast growth factor 23 signaling ,  a member of the endocrine subfamily of fibroblast growth factor family plays important roles in phosphate homeostasis .
the parathyroid hormone family consists of parathyroid hormone and parathyroid hormone - like hormone that employ the same parathyroid hormone receptor type 1 ,  a g - protein coupled receptor  ( gpcr )  of family b of gpcrs .
phosphate is an essential element with many important roles in biology ,  from skeletal development and integrity to metabolism and cellular signaling .
the pathway that assures the proper transport of phosphate in the body .
calcium / calmodulin dependent kinase 2  ( camk2 )  signaling plays important roles in excitation - contraction coupling in the heart and long - term potentiation  ( lpt )  and memory in the brain .
the calcium / calmodulin dependent kinase signaling cascade require an upstream camk kinase  ( camkk )  for activating phosphorylation .
a folate metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a methionine cycle / metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a homocysteine metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
kinases are essential components of biological pathways .
serine / threonine - specific kinase mediated signaling include essential intracellular pathways such as those involving the mitogen - activated  ( mapk )  ,  akt  ( also known as pkb )  ,  protein kinase a and protein kinase c ,  to name a few .
the non - receptor tyrosine - specific kinases are represented by members of src ,  jak ,  syk  and other families .
thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  signaling stimulates the secretion of thyroid hormone .
thyrotropin - releasing hormone  ( trh or trf )  signaling stimulates the production of thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  from the pituitary ,  which in turn stimulates the thyroid to produce thyroid hormone  ( th )  .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used for the treatment of genito - urinary system conditions or as sex hormones derivatives and analogs .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of hormonal preparations that may contain natural hormones or are synthetic hormonal analogs and their derivatives .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of thyroid hormone analogs ,  many of which have tissue specific thyroid hormone action .
sobetirome ,  also known as gc - 1 ,  is a one of the best characterized thyromimetics with high affinity for the beta thyroid receptor .
eprotirome is a thyromimetics that in addition for being selective for the beta tyrosine receptor is also highly liver - selective with minimal uptake in non - hepatic tissues .
the folate cycle metabolic pathway sums up the uptake and transport of folates ,  the processing and interconversion reactions of folate compounds .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of plevitrexed ,  a non - polyglutamatable antifolate quinazoline derivative and thymidylate synthase inhibitor used in the treatment of cancers .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of plevitrexed ,  an antifolate used in the treatment of cancer .
the pathway of plevitrexed - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of permetrexed ,  an antifolate originally designed as a thymidylate synthase inhibitor but which also has inhibitory effects on other enzymes involved in the folate cycle and / or folate mediated one - carbon transfer reactions .
the pathway of pemetrexed - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of pemetrexed ,  an antifolate used in the treatment of cancer .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of pralatrexate ,  a polyglutamatable antifolate used as an inhibitor of dihydrofolate reductase  ( dhfr )  enzyme of folate cycle .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of pralatrexed ,  an antifolate used in the treatment of cancer .
the pathway of pralatrexed - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
hydrogen sulfide can act as a signaling molecule with roles in the heart ,  brain and smooth muscle .
nitric oxide  ( no )  signaling ,  well known for its vasodilation effects ,  exerts multiple roles that include the immune and nervous system .
those signaling pathway elicited by gases such as carbon monoxide ,  nitric oxide or hydrogen sulfide .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of irinotecan an inhibitor of dna topoisomerase i used in the treatment of several types of cancer .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of irinotecan ,  a drug used in the treatment of several types of cancer .
the pathway of irinotecan - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the stem cell factor  ( scf )  signaling plays important roles in cell migration ,  proliferation and survival .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs that target the angiotensin converting enzyme ace .
those metabolic reactions involved in the uptake ,  modification and elimination of chemical compounds that are foreign to the biological system .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ace inhibitors .
the pathway of ace inhibitor - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those metabolic reaction involved in handling this polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon whose metabolites are mutagenic and carcinogenic .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of biogenic amines .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of catecholamines .
histamine is derived from the amino acid histidine via a decarboxylation reaction carried out by the enzyme l - histidine decarboxylase .
those metabolic reaction involved in the synthesis of eicosanoids ,  molecules that play important roles in the immune and vascular systems .
prostanoids are a class of eicosanoids that contains the prostaglandins ,  the thromboxanes and prostacycline .
those metabolic reactions involving prostacycline  -  a family of prostanoid eicosanoids with important functions in the cardiovascular system .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of leukotriene ,  a class of eicosanoids ,  molecules exerting important roles in the immune and vascular systems .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of prostanoids ,  a class of eicosanoids that includes several families and which exert important roles in the immune and vascular systems .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of codeine and morphine ,  a class of drugs in the opiate family used as pain relievers .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of codeine and morphine ,  a class of drug opiates used as pain relievers .
the pathway of codeine / morphine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nifedipine ,  a calcium channel blocker used primarily in the treatment of hypertension and angina .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nifedipine .
the pathway of nifedipine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway responsible for the transport of monoamines ,  biogenic amines representing various neurotransmitters .
prolactin signaling pathway is important for normal reproduction .
the omega degradation pathway is an alternative route to the common beta degradation pathway .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of arginine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of arginine .
those metabolic reaction involved in the biosynthesis of glutamic acid / glutamate .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of glutamic acid / glutamate .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of glycine ,  a major inhibitory neurotransmitter .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of glycine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of histidine ,  an essential amino acid for humans .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of histidine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of isoleucine ,  an essential amino acid for humans .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of isoleucine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of leucine ,  an essential amino acid for humans .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of leucine .
the pathway of dna transcription carried out by the prokaryotic and the several eukaryotic polymerases .
the pathway of dna transcription in prokaryotic organisms is carried out by a single polymerase .
rna polymerase ii and a set of general and specific transcription factors assemble as a large pre - initiation complex which undergoes a series of transformations before transcription proceeds .
the pathway of dna transcription carried out by the eukaryotic polymerases .
those metabolic reactions involved in the de novo synthesis of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide  ( nad )  ,  downstream of kynurenine metabolism of tryptophan degradation .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of glutathione .
those metabolic reaction involved in the synthesis of threonine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of threonine ,  an essential amino acid for humans .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of tryptophan ,  an essential amino acid that human cannot synthesize .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of tryptophan ,  an essential amino acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the production of kynurenine ,  a product of tryptophan degradation pathway .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of tyrosine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation and / or conversion of tyrosine ,  a non -  essential amino acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of valine ,  an essential amino acid for humans .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of phenylalanine ,  an essential amino acid for humans .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation and / or conversion of phenylalanine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of carotene collectively referring to several related unsaturated hydrocarbon compounds that are synthesized by plants .
those metabolic reactions involved ion the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of lycopene  -  a carotene and phytochemical found in red fruits and vegetables .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of lycopene ,  a carotene and phytochemical found in red fruits and vegetables .
leukotriene are eicosanoids derived from omega - 3 or omega - 6 fatty acids .
prostanoids are eicosanoids derived from omega - 3 or omega - 6 fatty acids and represented by several families .
prostaglandins are one of several families of prostanoids ,  eicosanoids derived from omega - 3 or omega - 6 fatty acids .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of trehalose  -  a disaccharide synthesized by bacteria ,  fungi ,  plants and invertebrates .
those metabolic reactions involved on the synthesis of trehalose ,  a disaccharide found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  plants and invertebrates .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of trehalose .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of methionine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of methionine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of steroids .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of cholesterol ,  an essential component of cell membranes and lipid rafts and the precursor for the synthesis of steroid hormones and bile acids .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of steroid hormones .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of phosphatidylcholine ,  an essential component of the membrane .
abscisic acid is a plant isoprenoid hormone important for development and stress responses .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of abscisic acid ,  an important plant isoprenoid hormone .
sulfur ,  mostly found as inorganic sulfate can be taken up by plants ,  microorganisms and algae .
nodal signaling pathway belongs to the transforming growth factor - beta superfamily and plays important roles during vertebrate embryogenesis where is involved in pattern formation and differentiation .
those metabolic reactions involving ascaroside ,  a glycolipid containing the sugar ascarylose ,  found in nematodes .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of ascaroside  -  a glycolipid containing the sugar ascarylose found in nematodes .
the series of events ,  collectively known as the cell cycle ,  that underlie the replication of the genome and the segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
the series of events that take place in the germ cells resulting in the production of four non - identical haploid cells from each diploid cell that enters the cycle .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of toxic secondary metabolite ,  known as mycotoxins ,  produced by some fungi ,  such as fusarium .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of fumonisin mycotoxins by members of fusarium fungi .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of trichothecene mycotoxins by members of fusarium fungi .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of deoxynivalenol ,  a type b trichothecene produced by members of fusarium fungi .
the translation pathway that takes place in the mitochondrion .
aminoacyl - trna ,  or transfer rna  ( trna )  carries amino acids to ribosomes and is part of the translation pathway .
mutations in the mitochondrial trna genes are associated with a number of disorders .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of uridine diphosphate glucose ,  a nucleotide sugar .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of  guanosine diphosphate mannose ,  a nucleotide sugar .
the receptor for advanced glycation end - products is a multi - ligand receptor whose signaling engages several downstream cascades .
rna polymerase ii transcription elongation commences when the nascent transcript reaches about 25 residues .
termination of transcription is important for partitioning the genome and maintaining adequate expression of neighboring genes .
the transcription of mitochondrial dna which encodes several genes involved in the oxidative phosphorylation pathway as well as the ribosomal and transfer rna genes involved in their translation .
non - coding rna are functional rna molecules that are not translated into proteins .
long non - coding rna ,  of which there are several types ,  perform important regulatory roles whose function and mechanism are under investigation .
cdp - choline is one of the three distinct pathways of phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis .
chromatin modification / remodeling plays a major role in the epigenetic control of gene expression .
the tails of histone proteins are subject to a wide array of modifications of which methylation and acetylation have been more thoroughly documented .
chromatin remodelers are large complexes that use the energy derived from atp hydrolysis to promote nucleosome sliding ,  ejection or repositioning ,  histone exchange .
dna modification is a component of chromatin modification pathway .
a chromatin remodeling / modification pathway that deviate from what its normal course should be .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of sucrose .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of phosphatidylglycerol .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of cardiolipin .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of cardiolipin ,  a molecule important for mitochondrial function .
the pathways involved in the absorption and efflux of cholesterol .
the transport pathways of elements in group 1 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 and 17 of the periodic table .
the transport pathway of chloride ion as carried out by chloride channels and transporters in cell and organelles .
a chloride ion transport pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor signaling is initiated in response to binding several compounds within classes of lipids such as the eicosanoid ,  leukotriene ,  prostagladin ,  among others .
deregulation of peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor signaling can affect innate immunity and play a role in metabolic diseases .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of coenzyme a ,  an  important for fatty acids ,  pyruvate and citric acid metabolic pathways .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of coenzyme a .
a nucleotide excision repair pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the response mechanism / pathways that assure the maintenance of genomic integrity .
the ataxia telangiectasia - mutated  ( atm )  serine / threonine kinase mediated signaling plays a major role in the response to dna double strand breaks  ( dsb )  .
the atm and rad3 - related  ( atr )  serine / threonine kinase mediated signaling responds to several kinds of dna damage ,  of which single - stranded dna  ( ssdna )  exerts a key role .
those metabolic reactions involving lactose ,  a disaccharide found in milk .
the breaking down of lactose to its constituent sugars .
toxic secondary metabolites ,  also known as mycotoxins ,  are natural toxins produced by organisms that belong to the fungi kingdom .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  transport and / or degradation of aflatoxins .
the shikimate pathway is the  metabolic route for the production of aromatic amino acids in plants .
chorismate ,  the major branch point metabolite of shikimate pathway is the precursor for the biosynthesis of aromatic amino acids phenylalanine ,  tryptophan and tyrosine in plants .
basic helix - loop - helix proteins represent a large superfamily of transcription factors that regulate the expression of genes involved in growth and development as well as environmental responses .
the inhibitor of dna binding  ( id )  family belongs to the basic helix - loop - helix superfamily of transcription factor that regulate cell growth and differentiation .
an inhibitor of dna signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a  basic helix - loop - helix signaling pathway that deviates from its normal course should be .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide  ( nad )  from precursors such as nicotinamide ,  nicotinic acid or nicotinamide riboside ,  collectively known as vitamin b3 or niacin .
methane oxidation by metanotrophs produces formaldehyde which is assimilated to form metabolite subsequently used for the biosynthesis of multi - carbon compounds .
the serine pathway is one of two pathways of formaldehyde assimilation resulting in a three - carbon intermediate .
the rump pathway ,  or rump cycle ,  is one of two pathways of formaldehyde assimilation resulting in a three - carbon intermediate .
those metabolic reactions involved in the oxidation of octane and found in some bacteria .
those metabolic reactions involved in the deamination pathway of glutamate degradation that is found in microorganisms and plants .
those metabolic reactions involved in the glutamate degradation pathway ii found in certain bacteria .
those metabolic reactions involved in glutamate degradation pathway iii which proceeds via 4 - aminobutanoate  ( gaba )  and is found in humans and other mammals .
those metabolic reaction involved in glutamate degradation pathway iv .
those metabolic reactions involved in glutamate degradation pathway v ,  a fermentation pathway of glutamate degradation .
certain anaerobic bacteria are capable of fermenting amino acids .
those metabolic reactions involved in glutamate degradation pathway vii ,  a fermentation pathway of glutamate degradation .
those metabolic reactions involved in glutamate degradation pathway vi ,  a fermentation pathway of glutamate degradation .
those metabolic reactions involved in glutamate degradation pathway viii ,  a fermentation pathway of glutamate degradation .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of starch ,  a carbohydrate produced by all green plants as an energy store .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of starch and cellulose ,  two similar polymers produced and used by green plants .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of cellulose ,  an important structural components of cell wall of green plants ,  many forms of algae and some fungus - like microorganisms .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of starch and cellulose ,  two related polymers .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of terpene and terpenoid ,  large classes of related organic compounds .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of terpene ,  a large class or organic compounds produced by a variety of plants and some insects .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of monoterpene ,  a class of terpene composed of two isoprene units .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of terpene and terpenoid ,  large classes of related organic compounds .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of diterpene ,  a class of terpene composed of four isoprene units .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of momilactone  -  a diterpene produced by rice .
the pathway of chromatin  -  dna  and constituent histones ,  modification mediated by writers and recognized by readers which in turn ,  act upon their effectors .
a chromatin modification pathway that deviate from what its normal course should be .
a chromatin remodeling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the swi / snf  ( switching defective / sucrose nonfermenting )  family of remodelers has initially been purified from saccharomyces cerevisiae .
the iswi  ( imitation switch )  family of remodelers has initially been purified from drosophila melanogaster .
the ino80  ( inositol requiring 80 )  family of remodelers has been initially purified from saccharomyces cerevisiae .
the chd  ( chromodomain ,  helicase ,  dna binding )  family of remodelers has initially been purified from xenopus laevis .
a dna modification pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a histone modification pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
any disease that affects the central or peripheral nervous system .
the congenital and acquired diseases affecting the liver .
the congenital and acquired diseases affecting the brain ,  including but not limited to the cerebral cortex ,  basal ganglia ,  thalamus and hypothalamus ,  brain stem ,  cerebellum .
a cerebro - hepato - renal phenotype caused by mutations in genes involved in the peroxisome biogenesis pathway .
a neurometabolic disorder affecting the central nervous system ,  caused by defects in mitochondrial and / or nuclear genes involved in energy metabolic pathways .
a rare autosomal recessive condition characterized by degeneration of the nervous system due to white matter vacuolization and demeylination .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of abciximab ,  an integrin receptor antagonist used as a platelet aggregation inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of abciximab ,  a platelet aggregation inhibitor .
the pathway of abciximab - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of kanamycin ,  an aminoglycoside antibiotic that inhibits bacterial protein synthesis .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of kanamycin  -  an antibiotic that interferes with bacterial protein synthesis .
the pathway of kanamycin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of neviparine ,  a non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor used in the treatment of hiv type 1 .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of neviparine ,  a reverse transcriptase inhibitor .
the pathway of neviaparine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of amikacin ,  an aminoglycoside antibiotic that inhibits bacterial protein synthesis .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of amikacin ,  an antibiotic used for the treatment of infections induced by gram - negative bacteria .
the pathway of amikacin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of lamivudine ,  a reverse transcriptase enzyme inhibitor used for the treatment of hiv type 1 and 2 and hepatitis b virus .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of lamivudine ,  a reverse transcriptase inhibitor used for the treatment of several virally induced diseases .
the pathway of lamivudine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of gentamicin ,  an antibiotic that inhibits bacterial protein synthesis .
the responses triggered by exposure to a toxin or a toxicant ,  a poisonous substance naturally produced by an organism or made by humans ,  respectively .
a pathway triggered by exposure to a nanomaterial .
a pathway triggered by exposure to carbon nanotube  ( cnt )  ,  an allotrope of carbon of the fullerene structural family .
a pathway triggered by exposure to titanium dioxide nanoparticle  ( nano - tio2 )  .
those metabolic reactions involved in the uptake ,  modification and elimination of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons  ( pahs )  ,  a class of compounds ,  members of which are potent mutagens and carcinogens .
a pathway triggered by exposure to cerium oxide nanoparticles ,  also known as nanoceria .
arthritis collectively describes several conditions whose primary feature is represented by joint pain resulting from inflammation .
a metabolic disorder characterized by recurrent acute arthritis ,  hyperuricemia and deposition of sodium urate in and around the joints ,  sometimes with formation of uric acid calculi .
the inflammatory bowel disease  ( ibd )  results from the deregulation of the immune system to which both genetic and environmental factors contribute .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of ezetimibe  -  a drug used to lower the plasma cholesterol level .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ezetimibe ,  a selective inhibitor of cholesterol absorption .
the pathway of ezetimibe - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of lomitapide ,  a drug used to lower cholesterol levels .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of lomitapide ,  an inhibitor of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein .
the pathway of lomitapide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nicotine ,  an agonist of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors .
the pathway of nicotine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of valproic acid ,  a branched short - chain fatty acid derived from valeric acid used as a mood - stabilizing drug and in the treatment of epilepsy .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of valproic acid ,  a drug used as a mood - stabilizing and for the treatment of epilepsy .
the pathway of valproic acid - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
gaucher's disease is caused by defective sphingolipid metabolism and accumulation of glucosylceramide in the brain and other tissues .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of doxorubicin ,  a streptomyces metabolite used as a chemotherapeutic agent used in the treatment of cancers .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nystatin  -  a polyene antifungal drug used to treat yeast infections .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  - of nystatin .
the pathway of nystatin - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of losartan ,  an angiotensin ii receptor type 1 antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension and heart failure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of losartan .
the pathway of losartan - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of clopidogrel ,  a platelet aggregation inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of clopidogrel .
the pathway of clopidogrel - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of ibuprofen ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug that inhibits cyclooxygenase enzymes and is used in the treatment of inflammation and pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ibuprofen .
the pathway of ibuprofen - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
an x - linked inherited metabolic disorder affecting the cerebrovascular system .
those diseases and disorders that are caused by deregulation of a metabolic pathway .
those diseases and disorders that are caused by deregulation of lipid metabolic pathways .
xanthomatosis results from deregulation of cholesterol metabolic pathways and is manifested by the formation of yellow ,   cholesterol - rich deposits .
the cerebrotendinous type of xanthomatosis is caused by mutation in the cyp27a1 gene  -  a sterol hydrolase involved in the oxidation of side chain sterol intermediates .
those diseases present at birth and also before birth ,  or those that develop during the first month of life .
those diseases that are caused by genetic mutations present during fetal development and that may be inherited from a parent or acquired in utero .
congenital adrenal hyperplasia pathway represents a group of inherited disorders of the adrenal glands that results from defects in several enzymes involved in steroid hormone metabolic pathways .
lipoid congenital adrenal hyperplasia ,  the most severe disorder of steroid hormone biosynthesis ,  is caused by a defect in the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone ,  the first step in adrenal and gonadal steroidogenesis .
the active kinin peptides generated by the kallikrein - kinin cascade  -  bradykinin ,  kallidin and their c - terminal processed metabolites ,  signal via two g - protein coupled  ( gpcr )  receptors .
the peripheral dopaminergic system is distinct from the neuronal one .
a peripheral dopamine signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a catecholamine signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
an amino and amino acid - derived hormone signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the expanded network of losartan - interacting genes .
a pathway triggered by exposure to carbon tetrachloride ,  an organic compound used in several application .
a pathway triggered by exposure to ozone ,  a powerful oxidant with numerous industrial and consumer applications .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of metformin ,  an antihyperglycemic drug used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of metformin ,  an anti - diabetic drug used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus .
the pathway of metformin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the expanded network of metformin - interacting genes .
alterations in the visual phototransduction signaling have been linked to a number conditions such as retinits pigmentosa  ( rp )  ,  bardet - biedl syndrome  ( bbs )  ,  macular degeneration and others .
retinitis pigmentosa  ( rp )  is a common form of photoreceptor degeneration with a varied pattern of inheritance that includes autosomal dominant and recessive and x - linked forms .
alteration in the retinoic cycle ,  or the visual cycle have been associated with retinitis pigmentosa and a few other forms of photoreceptor degeneration .
a retinoid metabolic pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the mechanostransduction pathway involves the conversion of a mechanical stimulus into an electrical signal whose processing underlies proprioception ,  hearing ,  balance and touch .
the auditory mechanotransduction pathway converts mechanical stimuli into electrical signaling that are processed by the brain and account for the perception of sound ,  gravity and movement .
alterations in the auditory mechanotransduction pathway is associated with hearing impairment and deafness .
the usher syndrome is characterized by both vision and hearing loss .
the pharmacokinetics / pharmacodynamics of platinum  ( pt )  containing drugs ,  widely used in the treatment of cancer .
the pharmacokinetics / pharmacodynamics of cisplatin ,  a platinum  ( pt )  containing drug widely used in the treatment of solid tumors .
a pathway triggered by exposure to platinum  ( pt )  containing drugs used in the treatment of solid tumors .
a pathway triggered by exposure to cisplatin ,  a widely used and very potent anti - cancer platinum containing drug .
a pathway triggered by exposure to bisphenol a  -  a synthetic compound used  in the production of plastics and certain resins .
the pharmacokinetics / pharmacodynamics of oxaliplatin ,  a platinum  ( pt )  containing drug widely used in the treatment of solid tumors .
the pharmacokinetics / pharmacodynamics of carboplatin ,  a platinum  ( pt )  containing drug used in the treatment of solid tumors .
a pathway triggered by exposure to carboplatin ,  a platinum containing drug used in the treatment of solid tumor .
hippo signaling pathway plays important roles in organ development and growth and tumor suppression .
organophosphates  ( ops )  represent one of the main classes of pesticides .
a hippo signaling pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the polyol pathway is triggered by excess glucose which is reduced to sorbitol in the first step which requires nadph as a cofactor .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of sugar alcohols .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of dermatan sulfate  -  a mucopolysaccharide found primarily in skin but also in tendons ,  lungs ,  heart valves and blood vessels .
a pathway triggered by exposure to nicotine ,  the alkaloid found in tobacco and other plants .
the pharmacokinetics / pharmacodynamics of paracetamol ,  a widely used analgesic ,  known as acetaminophen  ( apap )  .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of paracetamol ,  a widely used analgesic known as acetaminophen .
a pathway triggered by exposure to paracetamol ,  a widely used analgesic also known as acetaminophen .
thromboxane is one of several families of prostanoids ,  eicosanoids derived from omega - 3 or omega - 6 fatty acids .
prostacyclin is one of several families of prostanoids ,  eicosanoids derived from omega - 3 or omega - 6 fatty acids .
prostagladin e2 is the most abundant product of prostaglandin biosynthesis via the cyclooxygenase mediated metabolism of arachidonic acid .
prostaglandin d2 signaling exerts important functions in the central nervous system  ( cns )  that among others ,  include the regulation of sleep and the perception of pain .
prostaglandin i2 signaling exerts potent vasodilator and anti - thrombic effects .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of prostaglandins  -  a class of eicosanoid prostanoids with several members and exerting a range of important functions in the immune and cardiovascular systems .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of thromboxane  -  eicosanoid prostanoids essential for the homeostasis of the cardiovascular system .
those metabolic reactions involved in the biosynthesis of prostacyclin ,  also known as prostaglandin i2 .
prostaglandin f2alpha signaling engages one receptor and plays important roles in mammalian reproduction .
the heterotrimer g proteins are transducers of g proteins coupled receptors  ( gpcrs )  .
organismal aging represents the sum of impaired functions and pathways .
alterations in the pathways and processes elicited in  response to various cues / insults the organism perceives as threatening .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used to alleviate pain and / or reduce fever .
a general term grouping neoplastic pathways of the brain ,  spinal cord or central nervous system and of nerve tissue such as neuroepithelial or neurectodermal .
the g1 / s transition pathway defines the point when the decision to complete the cell cycle is made .
alterations in the swi / snf family mediated pathway of chromatin remodeling are implicated in a number of human cancers that include ovarian ,  pancreatic and renal ,  among others .
defective repair pathway ( s )  of double - strand breaks can lead to chromosomal rearrangements ,  genomic instability and oncogenic activation .
defective repair pathway ( s )  of double - strand breaks can lead to chromosomal rearrangements ,  genomic instability and oncogenic activation .
programmed cell death pathways group together several types that can be described as apoptotic or non - apoptotic ,  based on morphological characteristics .
cell death pathways that are not the result of a regulated process and may be the result of injury or trauma ,  such as necrosis .
a programmed cell death pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
pyroptosis pathway is a form of programmed cell death triggered by microbial infection and release of cytokines .
necroptosis ,  is a programmed ,  or regulated form of necrosis generally triggered by dna damage and leading to cell swelling and lysis .
an autophagy pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
anoikis is a form of apoptotic programmed cell death triggered by the absence of cell - matrix interactions .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of doxorubicin .
the pathway of doxorubicin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the various pathways whereby initial rna transcripts are processed into their mature ,  functional form and those involved in removing excess or erroneous rna .
those reactions involved in producing the mature forms of rnas: mrna ,  trna and rrna .
mrna maturation involves 5' - capping and 3' processing of pre - mrna ,   splicing and alternative splicing to produce the mature mrna molecule ( s )  .
initiation of transcription from the bipartite rdna repeats requires the assembly of pol i preinitiation complex  ( pic )  and subsequent recruitment of the polymerase .
subunits of pol i have elongation and hydrolysis capabilities .
termination of transcription by the polymerase i system requires the recruitment of specific factors to particular dna elements .
processing of  the initial trna transcript ,  including splicing of intron - containing pre - trnas and multiple modifications to produce the mature trna molecule that is exported to the cytoplasm .
the reactions involved in processing the primary pol i transcribed rrna and the 5s pre - rrna transcribed by pol iii .
5' - end capping occurs earlier in transcription and ,  along with phosphorylation of pol ii ,  promotes productive elongation .
the 3' - end processing of pre - mrna is intimately coupled to pol ii transcription termination ,  splicing ,  mrna transport and translation .
long non - coding rna transcripts are subject to processing in a manner analogous to mrna thereby they are capped and polyadenylated ,  and also frequently spliced .
long non - coding rna transcripts are subject to processing in a manner analogous to mrna thereby they are capped and polyadenylated ,  and also frequently spliced .
long non - coding rna transcripts are subject to processing in a manner analogous to mrna thereby they are capped and polyadenylated ,  and also frequently spliced .
those disorders and diseases resulting from nutritional imbalances and by alterations in various aspects of metabolism .
those conditions caused by inadequate levels of one or more essential vitamins due to defects in their metabolism .
a severe form of lipid storage disease in infants caused by deficiency of acid lipase .
the pathway thereby processed ,  mature mrna is exported to the cytoplasm .
the pathway thereby processed ,  mature trna is exported to the cytoplasm .
those diseases resulting from alterations in metabolic pathways that are caused by genetic mutations present during fetal development and that may be inherited from a parent or acquired in utero .
xanthinuria is a rare genetic disorder due to alterations in the purine metabolic pathway causing accumulation of xanthine and resulting in a range of symptoms .
xanthinuria is a rare genetic disorder due to alterations in the purine metabolic pathway causing accumulation of xanthine and resulting in a range of symptoms .
xanthinuria is a rare genetic disorder due to alterations in the purine metabolic pathway causing accumulation of xanthine and resulting in a range of symptoms .
those conditions affecting the muscular and skeletal systems and elements associated with them ,  arising from deregulation in a number of pathways .
vlcad deficiency is due to alterations in fatty acid beta oxidation pathway .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of abacavir ,  an anti - viral drug used for the treatment of hiv infection .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of abacavir ,  a drug used for the treatment of hiv .
the pathway of abacavir - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to them .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of acenocoumarol .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of acenocoumarol .
the pathway of acenocoumarol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those disorders caused by nutritional imbalance .
those diseases and disorders that are caused by deregulation of glucose metabolic pathways .
a rare ,  autosomal recessive inborn metabolic disease caused by alterations in pyrimidine metabolic pathway .
alterations in the pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway resulting in excessive excretion of orotic acid .
the most common form of the orotic acid inborn error metabolic disease pathway is due to deficiency in the uridine monophosphate  ( ump )  synthase enzyme .
a secondary form of the orotic acid inborn error metabolic disease pathway due to deficiency in orotidine - 5 - monophosphate decarboxylase  ( c - terminal activity of uridine monophosphate synthetase )  .
a group of disorders due to inborn errors of the tyrosine metabolic pathway .
type i tyrosinemia results from defects in the fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase  ( fah )  enzyme that catalyzes the last step in the tyrosine degradation pathway .
type ii tyrosinemia results from defects in the tyrosine aminotransferase  ( tat )  enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of tyrosine to 4 - hydroxyphenylpyruvate in the tyrosine degradation pathway .
type iii tyrosinemia results from defects in the 4 - hydroxyohenylpyruvate dioxygenase  ( hpd )  enzyme that catalyzes the second step in the tyrosine degradation pathway .
abnormal and involuntary movement due degenerative ,  post - traumatic ,  inflammatory ,  hereditary or medication - induced conditions .
a movement disorder caused by defects in the tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme that converts tyrosine to l - dopa ,  the precursor of dopamine in the dopamine biosynthetic pathway of the other two catecholamines downstream of it ,  norepinephrine and epinephrine .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of acetylasalicylic acid ,  known as aspirin .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of acetylsalicylic acid ,  known as aspirin .
the actual targets of acetylsalicylic acid known as aspirin were discovered after the drug was marketed .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of adefovir ,  an anti - viral drug used for the treatment of hepatitis b .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of adefovir .
adefovir is an anti - viral drug used for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b .
the pathway whereby the pre -  ribosomal particles ,  pre - 40s and pre - 60s containing three of the four rrna genes ,  are exported to the cytoplasm .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of bisphoshonate drugs that help prevent the loss of bone mass and are used in the treatment of osteoporosis .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nitrogenous bisphosphate drugs ,  inhibitors of farnesyl diphosphate synthase .
non - nitrogenous bisphosphonate drugs are metabolized to compounds that render the atp molecule non - functional ,  thus promoting cell death .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nitrogenous bisphosphonates such as alendronate ,  ibandronate ,  pamidronate or risedronate .
the pathway of nitrogenous bisphosphonate - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to them .
the nxf1 - nxt export pathway is involved in the trafficking of bulk mrna .
crm1 export pathway is involved in trafficking a subset of mrna as well as other rna particles .
trifunctional protein deficiency is caused by alteration in the fatty acid beta degradation pathway .
the rare autosomal recessive condition is caused by mutations in the triosephosphate isomerase enzyme involved in glycolysis / gluconeogenesis metabolic pathways .
transaldolase deficiency results from alteration in the pentose phosphate metabolic pathway ,  an alternative route of glucose oxidation that produces reducing equivalents .
lysosomal storage disease represents a group of rare genetic conditions resulting from deficiencies in particular lysosomal enzymes .
there are several forms of tay - sachs disease resulting from mutations in the lysosomal hexosaminidase a enzyme .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of alfentanil  -  a synthetic opioid used for anesthesia in surgery .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of alfentanil .
the pathway of alfentanil - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of alteplase  -  one of several recombinant tissue plasminogen activators .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of alteplase ,  one of several recombinant tissue plasminogen activators .
the pathway of alteplase - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of amiloride  -  a blocker of epithelial sodium channels used for the treatment of hypertension and congestive heart failure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of amiloride .
the pathway of amiloride - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathways of rrna quality control whereby non - functional rrnas ,  both at the level of transcript and of mature ribosome components ,  are subject to degradation .
the pathways of trna quality control thereby erroneous trna is degraded or normal trna is cleaved under stress conditions .
those diseases that are caused by inborn errors of lipid metabolism .
those diseases that are caused by inborn errors of carbohydrate metabolism .
those diseases that are caused by inborn errors of amino acid metabolism .
those brain diseases that are caused by inborn metabolic errors .
an autosomal recessive inherited condition resulting from alteration in sulfur metabolism .
a congenital disorder of sucrose metabolism resulting from mutations in the enzyme involved in the hydrolysis of dietary sugars .
a rare autosomal recessive condition resulting from mutations in the enzyme involved in the metabolism of the neurotransmitter 4 - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
an autosomal recessive disorder due to altered cholesterol metabolism .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs that reduce or prevent the formation of blood clots .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs that reduce or prevent bleeding .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of aminocaproic acid ,  an inhibitor of enzymes involved in fibrinolysis and as such ,  effective in the treatment of certain bleeding disorders .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of aminocaproic acid .
the pathway of aminocaproic acid - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of amiodarone ,  a drug used in the treatment of arrhythmia .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of amiodarone .
the pathway of amiodarone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of amlodipine ,  a calcium channel blocker used to lower blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of amlodipine ,  a calcium channel blocker .
the pathway of amlodipine - target interaction and of the biochemical or  physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of anistreplase ,  an antithrombic drug that converts plasminogen to the active plasmin which degrades fibrin  ( blood clots )  .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of anistreplase .
the pathway of anistreplase - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics / pharmacodynamics of anitpyrine ,  an analgesic and antipyretic drug used to relieve pain and fever .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of antipyrine ,  a drug used to relieve pain and fever .
an autosomal recessive metabolic disease due to alteration in the fatty acid beta oxidation pathway .
those conditions resulting from impaired mitochondrial function and alterations in mitochondrial pathways and due to acquired or inherited mutations .
a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder due to mutations in sarcosine dehydrogenase resulting in alterations of sarcosine metabolism .
the no - go mrna decay pathway degrades mrna that causes ribosomes to stall during the elongation phase of translation .
vinca alkaloids are anti - mitotic and anti - microtubule agents originally derived from plants and also produced as semisynthetic compounds .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of vinblastine  -  a vinca alkaloid used as anticancer agent .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of vinorelbine  -  a vinca alkaloid used as anticancer agent .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of vincristine  -  a vinca alkaloid used as anticancer agent .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of vindesine  -  a vinca alkaloid used as anticancer agent .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of vinblastine ,  an anti - mitotic ,  anticancer agent .
the pathway of vinblastine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of vincristine ,  an anti - mitotic ,  anticancer agent .
the pathway of vincristne - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of vindesine ,  an anti - mitotic ,  anticancer agent .
the pathway of vindesine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of vinorelbine ,  an anti - mitotic ,  anticancer agent .
the pathway of vinorelbine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of verapamil  -  an l - type calcium channel blocker of the phenylalkylamine class .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of verapamil ,  an l - type calcium channel blocker used for the treatment of cardiovascular conditions .
the pathway of verapamil - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of valsartan ,  an angiotensin ii receptor type 1 antagonist used in the treatment of high blood pressure and congestive heart failure .
the pathway of valsartan - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of valsartan .
those pathways involved in the proper balance of organic chemical levels ,  uptake and transport ,  utilization and storage ,  as demanded by the needs of cells tissues and organs .
those pathways involved in the proper balance of inorganic chemical levels ,  uptake and transport ,  utilization and storage ,  as demanded by the needs of cells tissues and organs .
those pathways that involve the balanced generation and utilization of s - adenosylmethionine  ( adomet or sam )  .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of valdecoxib ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used in the treatment of osteoarthritis ,  rheumatoid arthritis .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of valdecoxib ,  an antirheumatic drug .
the pathway of valdecoxib - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the congenital and acquired diseases affecting the digestive system .
alterations in the biosynthetic pathway of sialic acid  ( n - acetylneuraminic acid )  lead to its excessive accumulation in the urine ,  resulting in several phenotypes .
saccharopinuria ,  also known as hyperlysinemia type ii ,  is an autosomal recessive condition due to alteration in metabolic pathways of lysine and its derivatives .
a disorder due to alteration in the pentose phosphate metabolic pathway .
an autosomal recessive disorder due to alterations in peroxisomal metabolic pathways manifesting in hearing loss and impaired vision .
an inherited disorder affecting the red blood cells ,  resulting from alteration in the pyruvate metabolic pathway and manifesting in hemolytic anemia .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of enalapril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of enalapril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pathway of enalapril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of ramipril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ramipril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pathway of ramipril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of quinapril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of quinapril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pathway of quinapril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of perindopril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of perindopril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pathway of perindopril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of lisinopril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
the pathway of lisinopril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of lisinopril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of benazepril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of benazepril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pathway of benazepril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of trandolapril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of trandolapril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pathway of trandolapril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cilazapril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of cilazapril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pathway of cilazapril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of ticlopidine ,  a platelet aggregation inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ticlopidine ,  a platelet aggregation inhibitor .
the pathway of ticlopidine - interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of adrenergic beta receptors drugs  -  beta - agonists .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of adrenergic beta receptors blockers .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of selective adrenergic beta receptors blockers .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of non - selective adrenergic beta receptors blockers .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of timolol  -  a non - selective adrenergic beta receptor blocker .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of timolol .
the pathway of timolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of tirofiban ,  a platelet aggregation inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of tirofiban ,  a platelet aggregation inhibitor .
the pathway of tirofiban - interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of tobramycine  -  an anti - bacterial antibiotic ,  used primarily for the treatment of gram - negative infections .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of tobramycin  -  an antibiotic that interferes with bacterial protein synthesis .
the pathway of tobramycin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of tolmetin ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used in the treatment of osteoarthritis ,  rheumatoid arthritis .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of tolmetin ,  an antirheumatic drug .
the pathway of tolmetin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those diseases that are caused by inborn errors of pyruvate metabolism .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  folding and / or degradation of peptides and proteins ,  including the synthesis of protein / peptide / amino - acid based hormones .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  folding and / or degradation of peptide and protein hormones ,  and those derived from them .
the insulin precursor ,  preproinsulin is subject to a several processing steps in the endoplasmic reticulum and the golgi apparatus before ending as the mature zinc - insulin hexamer stored in secretory granules .
the preproglucagon processing pathway gives rise to several peptide hormones in a tissue and cell specific manner .
the processing of preproglucagon precursor that gives to the glucagon hormone in the alpha cells of the pancreatic islets of langerhans .
the processing of the preproglucagon precursor that gives rise to glucagon - like peptide - 1  ( glp - 1 )  in the intestinal l cells and discrete sets of neurons .
the processing of the preproglucagon precursor that gives rise to glucagon - like peptide - 2  ( glp - 2 )  in the intestinal l cell and discrete sets of neurons .
the processing of the preproglucagon precursor that gives rise to oxyntomodulin in the intestinal l cells and discrete sets of neurons .
the signaling pathway initiated by a radical .
superoxide and the radicals for which it is a precursor participate in several reactions and processes important in immunity and epigenetics .
rna molecules such as ribosomal and transfer rna ,  rrna and trna respectively ,  undergo many modifications to achieve functionality .
the radical sam enzymes use their iron - sulfur  ( fe / s )  cluster ( s )  generate a radical using the s - adenosylmethionine  ( sam )  as the substrate .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of docetaxel  -  an antineoplastiic agent .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of docetaxel .
the pathway of docetaxel - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of tenofovir ,  an antirfetroviral drug used for the treatment of hiv infection and hepatitis b .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of tenofovir  -  a nucleotide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor .
the pathway of tenofovir - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a pathway triggered by administration of docetaxel ,  a chemotherapeutic drug .
an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder resulting from impaired pyruvate metabolism .
those diseases that are caused by inborn errors of purine and / or pyrimidine metabolism .
a rather rare autosomal recessive immunodeficiency resulting from decreased t - cell function .
an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder due to mutations in propionyl coa carboxylase genes resulting in alteration of amino acid metabolic pathways .
a rare recessive metabolic disorder arising from alteration in the purine metabolic pathway .
a genetic disorder characterized by the excretion of large amounts of oxalate and present in several forms depending on the alteration of the glyoxalate metabolic pathway .
hyperoxaluria results from alteration in the glyoxylate metabolic pathway .
hyperoxaluria results from alteration in the glyoxylate metabolic pathway .
a group of metabolic conditions due to alterations in the heme biosynthetic pathway in bone marrow ,  the liver or both .
one of several liver porphyrias ,  all resulting from alterations in the heme biosynthetic pathway .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of tranexamic acid ,  an inhibitor of enzymes involved in fibrinolysis and as such ,  effective in the treatment of certain bleeding disorders it is also used in surgery to prevent excessive bleeding .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of tranexamic acid .
the pathway of tranexamic acid - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs that target the renin - angiotensin system ,  such as ace inhibitors and angiotensin ii antagonists .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of triamterene ,  a sodium channel blocker used to lower blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of triamterene .
the pathway of triamterene - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of tenoxicam ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used in the treatment of osteoarthritis ,  rheumatoid arthritis .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of tenoxicam ,  an antirheumatic drug .
the pathway of tenoxicam - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of telmisartan ,  an angiotensin ii receptor type 1 antagonist used in the treatment of essential hypertension .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of telmisartan .
the pathway of telmisartan - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of sulindac ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used in the treatment of acute or chronic inflammatory conditions .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of sulindac ,  an anti - inflammatory drug .
the pathway of sulindac - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a pathway triggered by administration of doxorubicin ,  a widely used chemotherapeutic agent .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of streptomycin ,  a bactericidal antibiotic that inhibits bacterial protein synthesis .
streptomycin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis in both gram - positive and gram - negative bacteria and as such is a broad - spectrum antibiotic .
a group of autosomal recessive disorders resulting from alterations in amino acid metabolism ,  mostly due to deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase .
an inherited disorder resulting from alteration in the urea cycle metabolic pathway .
a progressive atrophy of the choroid and retina resulting from alterations in amino acid metabolic pathways involving ornithine aminotransferase enzyme .
an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from alterations in the glycine metabolic pathway .
a rare autosomal recessive disorder resulting from alterations purine - pyrimidine and / or amino acid metabolic pathways .
an inherited condition resulting from alterations in the metabolic pathway whereby methylmalonyl - coenzyme a  ( coa )  is converted into succinyl - coa .
a form of methylmalonic aciduria disease pathway involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  in the methionine and homocysteine metabolic pathways .
an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from defects in mevalonate kinase ,  one of the two kinases sequentially phosphorylating mevalonate to isopentenyl pyrophosphate in the isoprenoid and cholesterol biosynthetic pathways .
a condition resulting from alterations in the electron transport chain metabolic pathway involving the nadh ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex i .
a condition resulting from alterations in the electron transport chain metabolic pathway involving the succinate dehydrogenase complex ii .
a condition resulting from alterations in the electron transport chain metabolic pathway involving complex iii .
those diseases that are caused by inborn errors of metal metabolism .
a disorder resulting from alterations in the molybdenum biosynthetic pathway .
a group of lysosomal storage diseases resulting from alterations in the glycosaminoglycans degradation pathway .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of stavudine ,  an anti - viral drug used for the treatment of hiv infection .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of stavudine ,  a drug used for the treatment of hiv .
the pathway of stavudine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of spironolactone  -  a drug used in the treatment of hypertension and heart failure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of spironolactone .
the pathway of spironolactone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of spirapril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of spirapril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pathway of spirapril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of sotalol  -  a non - selective adrenergic beta receptor blocker .
the pathway of sotalol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of sotalol .
an iron homeostasis pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
an inorganic chemical homeostasis pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of roxatidine acetate  -  a histamine h2 specific receptor antagonist used in the treatment of acid disorders .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of roxatidine .
the pathway of roxatidine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of risedronate  -  a nitrogenous bisphosphonate drug used to treat bone diseases .
the pathway of risedronate - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of risedronate ,  a nitrogenous bisphosphonate drug .
a condition of elevated levels of homocysteine usually due to alteration in folate metabolic pathways .
an autosomal recessive condition downstream of homocysteine and involving alterations in the transsulfuration pathway .
damage to mitochondria will promote mitophagy ,  the mitochondrial autophagy pathway .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of ranitidine acetate  -  a histamine h2 specific receptor antagonist used in the treatment of acid disorders .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ranitidine .
the pathway of ranitidine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of rabeprazole ,  a proton pump inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of rabeprazole ,  a compound in the class of proton pump inhibitors .
the pathway of rabeprazole - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of quinidine ,  a class i antiarrhythmic agent that can increase cardiac action potential .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of quinidine ,  a class i antiarrhythmic agent .
the pathway of quinidine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of propanolol  -  a non - selective adrenergic beta receptor blocker ,  used for the treatment of hypertension and other cardiovascular conditions .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of propanolol .
the pathway of propanolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of procaine ,  a drug used as a local anesthetic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of procaine .
the pathway of procaine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of procainamide ,  a class ia antiarrhythmic drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of procainamide .
the pathway of procainamide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a pathway triggered by administration of procainamide ,  a class ia antiarrhythmic drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of prednisone  -  a synthetic glucocorticoid that is particularly effective as a immunosuppressant drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of prednisone ,  a synthetic glucocorticoid .
the pathway of prednisone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of piroxicam ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used in the treatment of inflammatory conditions and to relieve pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of piroxicam ,  an anti - inflammatory drug .
the pathway of piroxicam - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a condition resulting from alterations in the methionine cycle / metabolism .
an inherited condition resulting from impaired lipid metabolic pathways .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in branched - chain amino acid metabolic pathways .
a disorder resulting from an impaired transport pathway of positively charged amino acids .
those conditions resulting from alterations in pathways involving genes on the x - chromosome in humans or in other species .
those conditions resulting from alterations in pathways involving genes on the y - chromosome in humans or in other species .
a rare autosomal condition resulting from an impaired amino acid metabolism .
a condition resulting from impaired amino acid metabolism .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of plasmalogen ,  a type of ether phospholipid found in many tissues ,  particularly in the cardiovascular ,  immune and nervous system .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of plasmalogen .
genetic disorders involving intellectual disabilty resulting from alterations in pathways whose component genes are located on the x chromosome .
an inherited disorder with several psychomotor phenotypes resulting from altered purine metabolism ,  particularly the salvage pathway ,  due to defects in the hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase 1  ( hprt1 )  gene ,  located on the x chromosome .
a condition associated with impaired renal tubular transport .
a genetic metabolic disorder due to impaired bone alkaline phosphatase activity and manifesting in a range of phenotypes .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of pirenzepine ,  a muscarinic receptor antagonist used in the treatment of peptic ulcers .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of pirenzepine .
the pathway of pirenzepine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of pentazocine ,  an opioid analgesic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of pentazocine ,  an opioid analgesic .
the pathway of pentazocine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of pantoprazole ,  a proton pump inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of pantoprazole ,  a compound in the class of proton pump inhibitors .
the pathway of pantoprazole - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of streptomycin  -  an antibiotic that interferes with bacterial protein synthesis .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of calcium channel blockers  -  agents used as antihypertensive drugs .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of non - dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers  -  agents often used to treat angina and relatively selective for myocardium .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers  -  agents derived from dihydropyridine and used to reduce arterial pressure .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nimodipine ,  a calcium channel blocker developed for the treatment of hypertension but now used to prevent vasospasm .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nifedipine ,  a calcium channel blocker used in the treatment of hypertension .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nitrendipine ,  a calcium channel blocker used in the treatment of hypertension .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nimodipine .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nisoldipine .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nitrendipine .
the pathway of nimodipine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of nisoldipine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of nitrendipine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nizatidine  -  a histamine h2 specific receptor antagonist used in the treatment of acid disorders .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nizatidine .
the pathway of nizatidine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of olmesartan ,  an angiotensin ii receptor type 1 antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of olmesartan .
the pathway of olmesartan - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nebivolol ,  a selective beta adrenergic type 1 receptor antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nebivolol .
the pathway of nebivolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of naproxen ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug that inhibits cyclooxygenase enzymes and is used in the treatment of inflammation and pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of naproxen .
the pathway of naproxen - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of naltrexone ,  an antagonist of opioid receptors used in the treatment of substance dependence .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of naltrexone ,  an antagonist of opioid receptors .
the pathway of naltrexone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nalbuphine ,  a semi - synthetic opioid used an analgesic for the relief of moderate to severe pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nalbuphine .
the pathway of nalbuphine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nabumetone ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug that inhibits cyclooxygenase enzymes ,  preferentially cox - 2 type .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nabumetone .
the pathway of nabumetone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of metolazone  -  a blocker of sodium  - chloride symporter in the distal convoluted tubule of the nephron .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of metolazone .
the pathway of metolazone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of metoprolol ,  a selective beta adrenergic type 1 receptor antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension and several other conditions involving a faster than normal heart rate .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of metoprolol .
the pathway of metoprolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a condition resulting from alterations in the proline amino acid metabolic pathway and involving the enzyme proline oxidase .
a rare condition resulting from alterations in the proline amino acid metabolic pathway leading to high levels of proline and the related compound pyrroline - 5 - carboxylase in the circulation .
a condition resulting from alterations in the various aspects of cholesterol metabolism or transport along with environmental or other diseases related aspects and manifesting in high levels of circulating cholesterol .
a condition spanning a spectrum of manifestations that may also cause hypoglycemia resulting from alterations in glucose homeostasis and insulin related pathways .
a group of inherited disorders resulting from alterations in the lysine metabolic pathway .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of methadone ,  an acyclic analog of morphine and heroin acting on the same opioid receptors and used in the management of severe ,  chronic pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of methadone .
the pathway of methadone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of mercaptopurine ,  an immunosuppressive drug used in the treatment of leukemia ,  crohn's disease and colitis .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of mercaptopurine .
the pathway of mercaptopurine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of mepivacaine ,  a drug used as a local anesthetic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of mepivacaine .
the pathway of mepivacaine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of meloxicam ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used to relieve pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of piroxicam .
the pathway of meloxicam - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of mefenamic acid ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used to treat mild to moderate pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of mefenamic acid .
the pathway of mefenamic acid - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
nuclear eukaryotic dna replication takes place in the context of the cell cycle during the s - phase .
nuclear eukaryotic dna replication takes place in the context of the cell cycle during the s - phase .
mitochondria contain their own dna .
a mitophagy pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
the various pathways and mechanisms that assure the proper function and abundance of mitochondria within cells .
disruption of mitochondrial homeostasis is associated with neurodegenerative diseases ,  cancer and aging .
the interplay of mitochondria fission and fusion and mitochondria trafficking to properly respond to cellular needs .
mitochondria are essential organelles that provide most of the atp fuel for the cell ,  are the site of several important metabolic pathways and play essential roles in calcium storage ,  signaling and apoptosis .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of lansoprazole ,  a proton pump inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of lansoprazole ,  a compound in the class of proton pump inhibitors pharmacologically related to omeprazole .
the pathway of lansoprazole - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of ketorolac ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used to treat moderate to severe pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ketorolac .
the pathway of ketorolac - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of ketoprofen ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug that also has analgesic and antipyretic effects .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ketoprofen .
the pathway of ketoprofen - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of isradipine ,  a calcium channel blocker used for the treatment of high blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of isradipine .
the pathway of isradipine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a stress response pathway to mitochondrial dna depletion or accumulation of misfolded protein in the matrix or intermembrane space .
disorders caused by alterations in the amino acid transport pathways across cell membranes .
an autosomal recessive disorder caused by alterations in the transport of neutral amino acids in the intestine and proximal renal tubules .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in the histidine metabolic pathway and characterized by increased levels of histidine in blood ,  cerebrospinal fluid and urine .
the pathway involved in a progressive neurologic disorder resulting from a deficiency of homocarnosinase .
a group of metabolic conditions due to alterations in the heme biosynthetic pathway in the liver .
an autosomal dominant liver porphyria due to deficiency in the coproporphyrinogen oxidase gene .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of irbesartan ,  an angiotensin ii receptor type 1 antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of irbesartan .
the pathway of irbesartan - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of imipramine ,  an antidepressant used in the treatment of major depression .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of imipramine .
the pathway of imipramine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of ibutilide ,  an antiarrhythmic agent .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ibutilide .
the pathway of ibutilide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a group of inherited metabolic disorders resulting from alterations in the glycogen metabolic pathway .
one of the two forms of the type i glycogen storage disease pathway involving glucose - 6 - phosphate ,  here due to mutations in glucose - 6 - phosphatase .
one of the two forms of the type i glycogen storage disease pathway involving glucose - 6 - phosphate ,  here due to mutations affecting the glucose - 6 - phosphate transporter .
a type of glycogen disease pathway that involves the glycogen debranching enzyme .
a type of glycogen storage disease pathway involving glycogen branching enzyme 1 .
a type of glycogen storage disease pathway involving the liver phosphorylase .
a type of glycogen storage disease pathway involving muscle phosphofructokinase .
the events leading to fission of mitochondria .
the events leading to fusion of mitochondria .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of ibandronate  -  a nitrogenous bisphosphonate drug used to treat bone diseases .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ibandronate ,  a nitrogenous bisphosphonate drug .
the pathway of ibandronate - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of hydrochlorothiazide ,  a drug used in the treatment of high blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of hydrochlorothiazide .
the pathway of hydrochlorothiazide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of gliclazide ,  a second generation sulfonylurea anti - diabetic drug used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of gliclazide ,  an anti - diabetic drug used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus .
the pathway of gliclazide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of glyburide ,  a second generation sulfonylurea anti - diabetic drug used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of glyburide ,  an anti - diabetic drug used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus .
the pathway of glyburide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of gentamicin  -  an antibiotic that interferes with bacterial protein synthesis .
the pathway of gentamicin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of furosemide  -  a blocker of luminal sodium - potassium - chloride symporter used for the treatment of hypertension and edema .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of furosemide .
the pathway of furosemide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a rather common autosomal dominant porphyria resulting from defects in hydroxymethybilane synthase in the heme biosynthetic pathway .
a rare metabolic disease due to alterations in the glycerol metabolic pathway resulting from defects in the glycerol kinase enzyme .
a condition resulting from alterations in the glutathione biosynthesis pathway .
an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder caused by a deficiency of galactosylceramidase leading to intralysosomal accumulation of galactolipids such as galactosylceramides and psychosine .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of fosinopril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor used for the treatment of hypertension .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of fosinopril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pathway of fosinopril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of forasartan ,  an angiotensin ii receptor type 1 antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of forasartan .
the pathway of forasartan - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of fluoxetine ,  an antidepressant used in the treatment of major depressive disorders .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of fluoxetine .
the pathway of fluoxetine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of flecainide ,  a drug used in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of flecainide .
the pathway of flecainide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of fentanyl ,  a potent opioid analgesic used to treat sudden ,  severe pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of fentanyl ,  a potent opioid analgesic .
the pathway of fentonyl - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of famotidine  -  a histamine h2 receptor antagonist used in the treatment of acid disorders .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of famotidine .
the pathway of famotidine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of etodolac ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used in the treatment of mild to moderate pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of etodolac .
the pathway of etodolac - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of etacrinic acid ,  a loop diuretic used  in the treatment of high blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of etacrynic acid .
the pathway of etacrynic acid - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of esmolol ,  a selective beta adrenergic type 1 receptor antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension and several other conditions involving a faster than normal heart rate .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of esmolol .
the pathway of esmolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of escitalopram ,  an antidepressant used in the treatment of major depressive disorders .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of escitalopram .
the pathway of escitalopram - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of erythromycin ,  an antibiotic that inhibits bacterial growth and used for the treatment of several bacterial infections .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of erythromycin  -  an antibiotic that interferes with bacterial growth .
the pathway of ertthromycin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of eptifibatide ,  a platelet aggregation inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of eptifibatide ,  a platelet aggregation inhibitor .
the pathway of eftifibatide - interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of eprosartan ,  an angiotensin ii receptor type 1 antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of eprosartan .
the pathway of eprosartan - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the transport of mitochondria to sites of high energy demand ,  such as neurons and cardiomyocytes .
defects in mitochondrial dynamics are associated with the pathology of major neurodegenerative disorders .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of disulfiram ,  a drug used in the treatment of chronic alcoholism and also cocaine dependence .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of disulfiram .
the pathway of disulfiram - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of disopyramide ,  a drug used in the treatment of arrhythmia .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of disopyramide .
the pathway of disopyramide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of dipyridamole ,  a drug that inhibits the formation of blood clots via inhibition of platelet aggregation .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of dipyridamole .
the pathway of dipyridamole - target nteraction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those reaction involved in the synthesis of lactose ,  the major sugar in milk .
a mitochondria transport pathway that deviates from what its normal could should be .
a mitochondria fusion pathway that deviates from what its normal could should be .
a mitochondria fission pathway that deviates from what its normal could should be .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of diltiazem -  a benzothiazepine l - type calcium channel blocker used in the treatment of hypertension and other cardiovascular conditions .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of diltiazem ,  an l - type calcium channel blocker used for the treatment of cardiovascular conditions .
the pathway of diltiazem - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of diflunisal ,   a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug that inhibits cyclooxygenase enzymes and is used in the treatment of inflammation and pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of diflunisal .
the pathway of diflunisal - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of didanosine  -  an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of hiv infection .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of didanosine ,  a drug used for the treatment of hiv .
the pathway of didanosine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of diclofenac ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used to treat arthritis and other joint diseases .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of diclofenac .
the pathway of diclofenac - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of desipramine ,  an antidepressant used in the treatment of depression and attention deficit disorder .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of desipramine .
the pathway of desipramine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a group of inherited enzyme deficiencies that affect galactose metabolism and manifest as elevated galactose levels in the blood .
a galactosemia resulting from defects in the galactose - 1 - phosphate uridylyltransferase enzyme galt .
a galactosemia resulting from defects in the udp - galactose - 4 - epimerase enzyme gale .
a galactosemia resulting from defects in the galactokinase enzyme galk1 .
a condition caused by alterations in gamma aminobutyric acid metabolism due to defects in the 4 - aminobutyrate aminotransferase enzyme .
those symptoms associated with conditions affecting the muscles ,  neuromuscular junctions or peripheral nerves .
a disorder manifested by a diminished skeletal muscle tone .
a severe autosomal recessive metabolic disorder resulting from defects in the fumarate hydratase enzyme and manifesting in early - onset hypotonia ,  psychomotor and brain abnormalities .
those diseases that are caused by inborn errors of fructose metabolism .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in fructose metabolism due to defects in the enzyme fructose - 1 , 6 - bisphosphatase .
an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from alterations in fructose metabolism and due to defects in the fructose - 1 - phosphate aldolase enzyme .
those disorders resulting from alterations in steroid metabolic pathways due to inborn genetic mutations .
an x - linked inherited metabolic disorder resulting from alterations in lipid metabolic pathways .
movement disorders classified by patterns of inheritance and age of onset .
a condition resulting from alterations in the metabolism of tetrahydrobiopterin  ( bh4 )  ,  an essential cofactor for the activity of many enzymes .
a rare autosomal recessive disorder likely resulting from alteration in cholesterol metabolism .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of  cyclophosphamide ,  an alkylating agent used in the treatment of certain cancer types .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of cyclophosphamide .
the pathway of cyclophosphamide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of cimetidine  -  a histamine h2 receptor antagonist used in the treatment of acid disorders .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of cimetidine .
the pathway of cimetidine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of non -  selective monoamine reuptake inhibitor drugs .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used to treat various forms of depression .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of selective serotonin uptake  inhibitor drugs .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of citalopram ,  an antidepressant used in the treatment of major depressive disorders .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of citalopram .
the pathway of citalopram - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
histamine signaling is important for the central and to some extent the peripheral nervous systems and is also involved in the immune responses .
histamine is a nitrogenous compound derived from histidine whose signaling plays important roles in the nervous and immune systems .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs that increase water excretion and are used in the treatment of hypertension ,  heart failure and certain kidney disorders .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of chlorothalidone  -  a blocker of sodium  - chloride symporter in the distal convoluted tubule of the nephron .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of chlorthalidone .
the pathway of chlorthalidone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of captopril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of captopril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pathway of captopril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of candsartan ,  an angiotensin ii receptor type 1 antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of candesartan .
the pathway of candesartan - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of capecitabine ,  an agent used in the treatment of several cancers .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of capecitabine .
the pathway of capecitabine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of buoranolol  -  a non - selective adrenergic beta receptor blocker ,  used for the treatment of hypertension and other cardiovascular conditions .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of bupranolol .
the pathway of buopranolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a classical pathway of mitochondrial protein import that delivers matrix resident and some of the inner membrane proteins .
the carrier pathway delivers many of the inner mitochondrial membrane proteins .
the mitochondrial intermembrane space assembly pathway  ( mia )  delivers the resident proteins of this mitochondrial localization .
the mitochondrial protein import thereby beta - barrel proteins of the outer mitochondrial membrane are sorted and assembled .
the mitochondrial protein import thereby alpha - helical proteins of the outer mitochondrial membrane are sorted and assembled .
a rare congenital disorder resulting from alterations in the urea cycle pathway .
the condition represents a group of disorders due to argininosuccinate synthase deficiency .
a rare autosomal recessive disorder resulting from alterations in the urea cycle pathway and due to defects in the argininosuccinate lyase enzyme .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs that reduce or prevent the formation of blood clots by directly inhibiting thrombin .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of bivalirudin ,  a direct thrombin inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of bivalirudin ,  a bivalent direct thrombin inhibitor .
the pathway of bivalirudin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs that decrease platelet aggregation and inhibit blood clot formation .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs that prevent the coagulation of blood .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs that can dissolve blood clots .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of bumetanide  -  a blocker of luminal sodium - potassium - chloride symporter used for the treatment of heart failure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of bumetanide .
the pathway of bumetanide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of bisoprolol ,  a selective beta adrenergic type 1 receptor antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension and several other conditions involving a faster than normal heart rate .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of bisoprolol .
the pathway of bisoprolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used in the treatment of conditions affecting the sensory organs .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of betaxolol ,  a selective beta adrenergic type 1 receptor antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension and glaucoma .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of betaxolol .
the pathway of betaxolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of moexipril  -  an angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of moexipril ,  an ace inhibitor .
the pathway of moexipril - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a form of congenital hyperplasia resulting from defects in the cyp17a1 gene .
a form of congenital hyperplasia resulting from defects in the cyp21a2 gene .
a form of congenital hyperplasia resulting from defects in the cyp11b1 gene .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of acebutolol ,  a selective beta adrenergic type 1 receptor antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension and arrhythmias .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of acebutolol .
the pathway of acebutolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of alendronate  -  a nitrogenous bisphosphonate drug used to treat bone diseases .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of alendronate ,  a nitrogenous bisphosphonate drug .
the pathway of alendronate - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of pamidronate  -  a nitrogenous bisphosphonate drug used to treat bone diseases .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of pamidronate ,  a nitrogenous bisphosphonate drug .
the pathway of pamidronate - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those skin diseases that contain a genetic component ,  usually resulting from inborn error of metabolism .
a rare autosomal recessive disorder resulting from alterations in collagen metabolism and due to defects in the prolidase pepd gene .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of esomeprazole ,  a proton pump inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of esomeprazole ,  a compound in the class of proton pump inhibitors used in the treatment of acid - related disorders .
the pathway of esomeprazole - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of chlorothiazide ,  a drug used in the treatment of high blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of chlorothiazide .
the pathway of chlorothiazide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of buprenorphine ,  a semi - synthetic opioid and a mixed partial agonist opioid receptor modulator used to treat opioid addiction and to control moderate to acute pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of buprenorphine .
the pathway of buprenorphine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of bupivacaine ,  a drug used as a local anesthetic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of bupivacaine .
the pathway of bupivacaine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of bendroflumethiazide ,  a drug used in the treatment of high blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of bendroflumethiazide .
the pathway of bendroflumethiazide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of azithromycin ,  an antibiotic that inhibits bacterial growth and used for the treatment of several bacterial infections and a number of sexually transmitted infections .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination of azithromycin  -  an antibiotic that interferes with bacterial growth .
the pathway of azithromycin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of azathioprine ,  an immunosupressive drug used in organ transplantation and autoimmune diseases .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of azathioprine ,  a meracptopurine prodrug .
the pathway of azathioprine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
an inherited condition resulting from alterations in lysine metabolism .
an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder with several phenotypes and due to mutations in the l2hgdh gene  ( the l - type )  ,  d2hgdh and idh2 genes  ( the d - type )  .
an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder affecting the brain and peripheral vessels and manifested in infancy .
conditions of the parasympathetic and sympathetic divisions of the autonomic nervous system .
a condition resulting from alterations in the pathways of norepinephrine and epinephrine biosynthesis due to defects in the dopamine beta - hydroxylase gene  ( dbh )  .
an autosomal recessive disorder resulting in alterations in glycine ,  choline and folate metabolism and due to mutations in dmgdh gene .
an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from alterations in pyrimidine degradation pathway due to mutations in dihydropyrimidine gene  ( dpyd )  .
an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from alterations in pyrimidine degradation pathway due to mutations in dihydropyrimidinase gene  ( dpys )  .
a very rare autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in glycerolipid metabolism due to defects in the glycerate kinase  ( glyctk )  gene .
conditions resulting from genetic defects in the selective or non - selective transport pathways of kidney tubules .
an autosomal condition resulting from impaired epithelial transport of cystine and dibasic amino acids in the proximal renal tubule .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in creatine metabolism due to mutations in the gamt gene .
an autosomal recessive condition due to defects in the uroporphyrinogen iii synthase gene .
a condition resulting from alterations in the transport of cystine across the lysosomal membrane due to defects in the lysosomal cystine transporter ,  cystinosin  ( ctns )  .
a variant of the classic nephropathic cystinosis type .
an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from alterations in the urea cycle pathway and due to defects in the hepatic mitochondrial enzyme carbamoyl phosphate synthetase 1 .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of aprotinin ,  an antifibrinolytic inhibitor of trypsin and other serine proteases ,  used to reduce bleeding during surgery .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of aprotinin .
the pathway of aprotinin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of arbekacin ,  an antibiotic used for the treatment of infections caused by multi - resistant bacteria .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of arbekacin .
the pathway of arbekacin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of argatroban ,  a direct thrombin inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of argatroban ,  a direct thrombin inhibitor .
the pathway of argatroban - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of atenotolol ,  a selective beta adrenergic type 1 receptor antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of atenolol .
the pathway of atenolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the various conditions affecting any segment of the gastrointestinal tract resulting from alterations in one or several pathways .
a condition resulting from inadequate levels of folic acid in the diet and manifested as various forms of anemia .
the group of syndromes resulting from failure of normal intestinal absorption of nutrients .
an autosomal recessive condition likely due to alterations in folate transport and exhibiting the symptoms of folate deficiency .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of penbutolol  -  a non - selective adrenergic beta receptor blocker ,  used in the treatment of high blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of penbutolol .
the pathway of penbutolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of oxeprenolol  -  a non - selective adrenergic beta receptor blocker ,  used for the treatment of angina ,  high blood pressure and abnormal heart rhythms .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of oxeprenolol .
the pathway of oxeprenolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used to cause reversible loss of sensation and generally administered to facilitate surgery .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of prilocaine ,  a drug used as a local anesthetic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of prilocaine .
the pathway of prilocaine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of ropivacaine ,  a drug used as a local anesthetic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ropivacaine .
the pathway of ropivacaine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of torasemide ,  a diuretic drug mainly used in the management of edema associated with congestive heart failure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of torasemide .
the pathway of torasemide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
autosomal recessive conditions resulting from alterations in biotin metabolism .
a late onset form of multiple carboxylase deficiency due to defects in the biotin recycling biotinidase enzyme .
the neonatal form of multiple carboxylase deficiency due to defects in holocarboxylase synthetase ,  the enzyme catalyzing the covalent attachment of biotin to biotin - dependent carboxylases .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of reteplase  -  one of several recombinant tissue plasminogen activators .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of reteplase ,  one of several recombinant tissue plasminogen activators .
the pathway of reteplase - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of nadolol  -  a non - selective adrenergic beta receptor blocker ,  used in the treatment of high blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of nadolol .
the pathway of nadolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of pindolol  -  a non - selective adrenergic beta receptor blocker ,  used in the treatment of high blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of pindolol .
the pathway of pindolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of teniposide ,  a drug used to treat childhood leukemia .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of teniposide .
the pathway of teniposide - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of zoledronate  -  a nitrogenous bisphosphonate drug used to treat bone diseases .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of zoledronate ,  a nitrogenous bisphosphonate drug .
the pathway of zoledronate - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of eplrenone ,  a drug used as an adjunct in the management of chronic heart failure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of eplerenone .
the pathway of eplerenone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a rare autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in leucine metabolism .
a syndrome consisting of early - onset bilateral optic atrophy associated with later - onset spasticity and cognitive deficit .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alteration in the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in the metabolism of phenylalanine and tyrosine .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of fenoprofen ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used  in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and mild pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of fenoprofen .
the pathway of fenoprofen - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
one of the subgroups of the therapeutic chemical  classification system developed by who for grouping drugs acting as antidotes ,  chelators ,  detoxifying agents ,  and others .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of naloxone ,  a medication used to reverse the effects opioids overdose .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of naloxone .
the pathway of naloxone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of porphyrin .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of cilostazol ,  a platelet aggregation inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of cilostazol ,  a platelet aggregation inhibitor .
the pathway of cilostazol - interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a rare inherited metabolic condition due to alterations in the activity of malonyl - coa decarboxylase .
a rare autosomal condition resulting from alterations in the urea cycle pathway and due to defects in the arginase enzyme .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of carnitine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of carnitine .
those metabolic reactions resulting in the breakdown of carnitine .
a condition resulting from alterations in the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway and due to defects in the enzyme catalyzing the final steps .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used in the treatment of epilepsy or seizure .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of fosphenytoin ,  a drug used in the treatment of acute convulsive epileptic seizure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of fosphenytoin ,  a prodrug used for the treatment of epilepsy .
the pathway of fosphenytoin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a condition due to defects in glycine n - methyltransferase  ( gnmt )  .
the lysosomal storage disease pathways affecting the nervous system .
a group of inherited metabolic disorders resulting in abnormal accumulation of sphingolipids in the central nervous system and also visceral organs due to defects in their degradation pathway .
a condition characterized by elevated serum bile acid concentration that can be due to defects in any of several genes .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of indometacin ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug that inhibits cyclooxygenase enzymes .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of indometacin .
the pathway of indometacin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in several metabolic pathways due to defects in the gcdh gene .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of levobunolol ,  a non - selective beta adrenergic receptor antagonist used in the treatment of glaucoma .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of levobunolol .
the pathway of levobunolol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of desipramine ,  an antidepressant used in the treatment of depression ,  anxiety disorders ,  insomnia .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of doxepin .
the pathway of doxepin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of psychoactive drugs that can induce an improvement in the  mental or physical activity .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of caffeine ,  a psychostimulant of the methylxanthine class .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of caffeine ,  a widely used stimulant of the central nervous system .
the pathway of caffeine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of trichlormethiazide ,  a drug used in the treatment of high blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of trichlormethiazide .
the pathway of trichlormethiazide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a rare autosomal condition resulting from alterations in several metabolic pathways and due to defects in the hmgcl gene .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in neurotransmitter metabolism and due to defects in the aadc gene .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs that prevent the coagulation of blood acting as vitamin k inhibitors  .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of heparin group drugs that reduce or prevent the formation of blood clots by activating the antithrombin iii  ( at )  thrombin inhibitor .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of heparin ,  a naturally occurring anticoagulant produced by basophils and mast cells .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of heparin .
the pathway of heparin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of enoxaparin ,  a low molecular weight heparin derivative .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of enoxaparin .
the pathway of enoxaparin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of fosphenytoin ,  an anti - seizure medication also used for certain heart arrhythmias .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of phenytoin .
the pathway of phenytoin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs used in the treatment of arrythmias .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of mexiletine ,  a drug used in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of mexiletine .
the pathway of mexiletine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those conditions ,  acquired ,  familial or congenital ,  affecting the skeletal muscle and / or smooth muscle .
a disorder manifested by abnormal increase in skeletal or smooth muscle tone .
a form of muscle hypertonia associated with upper motor neuron dysfunction .
a rather common condition resulting from alterations in folate metabolism and due to defects in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase  ( mthfr )  gene .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of etoposide ,  a cytotoxic anticancer drug in the topoisomerase inhibitor class .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of etoposide .
the pathway of etoposide - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
an autosomal recessive condition due to defects in the acid lipase gene .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of lornoxicam ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug with analgesic ,  anti - inflammatory and antipyretic properties genetic variations can result in changes in drug availability and can cause differences in the response of the organism to the drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of lornoxicam .
the pathway of lornoxicam - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of trastuzumab ,  a monoclonal antibody that interferes with the epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ,  overexpressed in certain cancer types .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of trastuzumab .
the pathway of trastuzumab - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used as antiparasitic agents .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of artemether ,  an antimalarial agent .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of artemether .
the pathway of artemether - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a group of mental disorders whose onset is in the developmental period .
an autosomal recessive condition characterized by developmental delay and mental retardation due to defects in the gatm gene .
condition resulting from genetic defects in the selective or non - selective transport functions of the kidney tubules .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of remifentanil ,  a synthetic opioid analgesic used in general anesthesia .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of remifentanil .
the pathway of remifentanil - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a heterogeneous group of disorders triggered  by alterations in mitochondria metabolism and resulting in dysfunction in muscle and nervous system .
a severe autosomal recessive disorder due to defects in the p53 - inducible ribonucleotide reductase rrm2b .
conditions affecting any segment of the intestine .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs used in the treatment of various cancers .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs used as immunostimulants .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs used as immunosupressants .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of monoclonal antibodies used in the treatment of various types of cancer .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of cetuximab ,  a chimeric  ( mouse / human )  monoclonal antibody that interferes with the epidermal growth factor receptor  ( egfr )  and used for the treatment of certain cancer types .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of cetuximab .
the pathway of cetuxiumab - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of panitumumab ,  a human monoclonal antibody that interferes with the epidermal growth factor receptor  ( egfr )  and used for the treatment of certain cancer types .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of panitumumab .
the pathway of panitumumab - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of hydroflumethiazide ,  a drug used in the treatment of high blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of hydroflumethiazide .
the pathway of hydroflumethiazide - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
an autosomal dominant condition resulting from alterations in amino acid metabolism due to defects in the 4 - hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase  ( hpd )  gene .
autosomal recessive neurodegenrative disorder resulting from alterations in lysosomal membrane transport due to defects in the slc17a5 gene .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of dobutamine ,  a drug used in the treatment of heart failure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of dobutamine .
the pathway of dobutamine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of clomipramine ,  an antidepressant used in the treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder ,  panic disorder ,  major depressive disorder .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of clomipramine .
the pathway of clomipramine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in fructose metabolism and associated with defects in the ketohexokinase  ( khk )  gene .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of felbamate  -  an anticonvulsant used in the treatment of epilepsy .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of felbamate .
the pathway of felbamate - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of tioguanine ,  a drug used to treat several leukemia types ,  ulcerative colitis and some autoimmune diseases .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of tioguanine .
the pathway of teniposide - target interactions and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the endocytosis and the exocytosis pathway that deliver ,  uptake and recycle cellular material .
the exocytosis pathway thereby cellular material is delivered in the extracellular space our outside the cell .
a signal - independent exocytic pathway employed by all cell types .
a signal - dependent exocytic pathway employed by particular cell types .
the endosomal system is at the cross roads of endocytosis and secretory pathways .
the lysosome is the final destination of endosomal degradative and autophagy pathways .
chaperone - mediated autophagy is a specific and selective pathway whereby chaperone complexes recognize substrates bearing a recognition sequence forming a chaperone / substrate complex recognized by translocators .
cellular autophagy involves the mechanisms thereby dysfunctional components ,  proteins or organelles ,  are targeted to the lysosomes for destruction .
a cellular autophagy pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
chaperone mediated autophagy declines with aging and can also be due to alterations in protein stability and gene structure .
a form of autophagy thereby the cytoplasmic material is directly engulfed in the lysosome .
the endosome export pathway delivers cargo to the trans golgi network  ( tgn )  or the plasma membrane via the retrograde and recycling pathways ,  respectively .
the retrograde export pathway is major route to recycle components of the secretory apparatus and to diverge from lysosomal degradation components derived from endocytosis .
the recycling export pathway routes receptors and other proteins back to the plasma membrane .
early to late endosome maturation pathway is a state of flux associated with changes in component composition ,  such as particular rab proteins and lipids such as phosphoinositides ,  increase in the number of intraluminal vesicles ,  luminal acidification and movement along microtubules .
any alteration in the proceedings of endocytosis or exocytosis .
any alteration of an aspect pertinent to endocytosis pathway .
alterations in the endosomal sorting pathway can dramatically impact on the proper delivery of cargo .
alterations in the endosome export pathway can dramatically impact on cellular fate .
in the endosomal pathway ,  endosomal maturation couples to sorting of material and its appropriate delivery or degradation ,  promoted by specific transport along and dynamics of cytoskeleton and associated molecular motors .
any alteration of an aspect pertinent to endosomal pathway .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of phosphatidylserine ,  an essential component of the membrane ,  and also with roles in signaling .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of phosphatidylinositol  ( ptdins )  .
reversible phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol at the 3 ,  4 ,  and / or 5 position of the inositol ring with one or more phosphate groups by the action of phosphatidylinositol kinases and phosphatases gives rise to several different phosphoinositides  ( pis )  whose various distribution is important to cellular membrane identity .
phosphoinositides are involved in a wide range of biological processes and alterations in their metabolism have been associated with a spectrum of human conditions .
chemical synapses require the induction and assembly of pre -  and postsynaptic structures .
the cycle of synaptic vesicle exocytosis and neurotransmitter release and the subsequent endocytosis and recycling of synaptic vesicles at nerve terminals .
the endocytosis of synaptic vesicles ,  their recycle and refill for another round of exocytosis .
the release pathway of neurotransmitter filled synaptic vesicles .
any alteration in the proceedings regulatory pathways important for brain function .
alterations in any of the various aspects pertinent to the release ,  endocytosis or trafficking / recycling of synaptic vesicles .
alterations in any of the mechanisms underlying the endocytosis of synaptic vesicles .
prior to exocytosis and following endocytosis ,  synaptic vesicles go through several trafficking steps that prepare them for neurotransmitter release .
the retromer complex is an important system for the selective cargo sorting for the endosome export pathways ,  primarily via the retrograde ,  but also the recycling pathway .
alterations in retromer - mediated pathway can affect both the sorting and the export pathways subsequent to sorting .
clathrin - dependent endocytosis is a major route for synaptic vesicle endocytosis .
alterations in any of the mechanisms underlying the clathrin - dependent endocytosis of synaptic vesicles .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs that reduce or prevent the formation of blood clots .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of fondaparinux ,  a synthetic pentasaccharide factor xa inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of fondaparinux .
the pathway of fondaparinux - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
congenital structural deformities caused by alterations in a number of pathways .
an x - linked dominant disorder with a range of phenotypes and reduced activities of several enzymes in a number of metabolic pathways .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of levobupivacaine ,  a drug used as a local anesthetic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of levobupivacaine .
the pathway of levobupivacaine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used to alleviate pain and which act on the nervous system in a way similar to opiate .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of oxycodone ,  a semi - synthetic opioid and a narcotic analgesic indicated for relief of moderate to severe pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of oxycodone .
the pathway of oxycodone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of hydromorphone ,  a derivative of the morphine family and a potent analgesic opioid drug and a narcotic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of hydromorphone .
the pathway of hydromorphone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of hydrocodone ,  a narcotic analgesic synthesized from codeine and used for relief of moderate to severe pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of hydrocodone .
the pathway of hydrocodone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of oxymorphone ,  a semi - synthetic opioid analgesic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of oxymorphone .
the pathway of oxymorphone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of salicylic acid derived from salicin ,  an anti - inflammatory agent produced in willow bark .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of salicylic acid .
the pathway of salicylic acid - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used for the treatment of conditions related to skin ,  hair and nails .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of sodium salicylate ,  a sodium salt of salicylic acid ,  used as an analgesic and antipyretic drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of sodium salicylate .
the pathway of salicylic acid - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of carbamazepine ,  a drug used in the treatment of epilepsy and neuropathic pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of carbamazepine .
the pathway of carbamazepine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in steroid metabolism due to defects in hsd11b2 gene .
a hereditary ,  usually autosomal dominant condition ,  resulting from alterations in glucose transport ,  affecting the nervous system and exhibiting a wide phenotypic variability .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of felodipine ,  a calcium channel blocker used for the treatment of high blood pressure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of felodipine .
the pathway of felodipine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of compounds used to treat various forms of depression .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of venlafaxine ,  a drug used in the treatment of major depressive ,  anxiety and panic disorders .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of venlafaxine .
the pathway of venlafaxiine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of rosiglitazone ,  an anti - diabetic drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of rosiglitazone ,  an anti - diabetic drug .
the pathway of rosiglitazone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the various conditions affecting any part of the biliary tract including the bile ducts ,   resulting from alterations in one or several pathways .
a condition where bile cannot flow from the liver to the duodenum which can be mechanical in nature as in blockage of the duct system or metabolic ,  resulting from alterations in bile formation due to genetic or environmental factors .
autosomal recessive disorders resulting from alterations in bile acid synthesis due to defects in one or several enzymes .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of chloroprocaine ,  a drug used as a local anesthetic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of chloroprocaine .
the pathway of chloroprocaine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of prednisolone  -  a synthetic glucocorticoid used to treat a wide range of inflammatory and autoimmune conditions ,  and also allergic reactions .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of prednisolone ,  a synthetic glucocorticoid .
the pathway of prednisolone - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
melatonin ,  in human and other organisms derived from tryptophan ,  is a monoamine with antioxidant properties and involved in the synchronization of the circadian rhythms .
glycine signaling is primarily inhibitory .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alteration in leukotriene c4 synthesis due to defects in the ltc4 synthase gene .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of phenindione .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of phenindione .
the pathway of phenindione - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of dicoumarol .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of dicoumarol .
the pathway of dicoumarol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of adrenergic beta receptors agonists .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of selective adrenergic beta receptors agonists .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of non - selective adrenergic beta receptors agonists .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of isoprenaline ,  a non - selective beta adrenergic agonist used for the treatment of heart block and slow heart rate .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of isoprenaline .
the pathway of isoprenaline - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those conditions resulting from alterations in one or several pathways and affecting the adrenal glands .
an x - linked disorder resulting from disturbances in the metabolism of very long chain fatty acids due to defects in the abcd1 gene .
a rare autosomal recessive condition resulting from alteration in long - fatty acid oxidation and due to defects in the slc25a20 gene .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of mycophenolic acid  -  an immunosuppressant drug used to prevent rejection in organ transplantation .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of mycophenolic acid .
the pathway of mycophenolic acid - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of catecholamines .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of dopamine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of epinephrine .
those metabolic reactions involved in the degradation of norepinephrine .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of tiaprofenic acid ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used  to treat pain ,  especially arthritic .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis of thyrotropin - releasing hormone  ( trh )  .
somatostatin ,  known as growth hormone - inhibiting hormone ,  is a peptide hormone that regulates cell proliferation ,  neurotransmission and the endocrine system .
thyroglobulin ,  produced by the follicular cells of thyroid gland is used to produce the thyroid hormones via a number of steps .
the major thyroid hormones thyroxine  ( t4 )  or tetraidothyronine and triiodothyronine  ( t3 )  are the major thyroid hormones produced via processing of thyroglobulin precursor .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of flurbiprofen ,  a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug used  in the treatment of arthritis and dental pain and also as a pre - operative solution .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of flurbiprofen .
the pathway of flurbiprofen - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of ethylmorphine ,  an opiate narcotic analgesic mostly used to treat dry cough and as an ophtalmologic agent .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of ethylmorphine .
the pathway of ethylmorphine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of magnesium salicylate ,  used as an analgesic and antipyretic drug .
inherited conditions characterized by a loss of myelin in the central nervous system .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in cerebroside metabolism due to defects in the cerebroside sulfatase enzyme .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of cocaine ,  a drug of few medical uses ,  mostly as a local anesthetic during surgery .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of cocaine ,  a drug of limited medical uses .
the pathway of cocaine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of lidocaine ,  an important class 1b antiarrhythmic drug also used as a local anesthetic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of lidocaine .
the pathway of lidocaine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of oxybuprocaine ,  a drug used as a local anesthetic ,  particularly in ophtalmology and otolaryngology .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of oxybuprocaine .
the pathway of oxybuprocaine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of dihydromorphine ,  a semi - synthetic opioid used for the management of moderate to severe pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of dihydrolmorphine .
the pathway of dihydromorphine - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a disturbance that leads to changes in the body's normal balance of acids and bases resulting in deviation from the normal  ph range .
those metabolic changes resulting in an excess of acids in the system causing a decrease in the normal ph range .
those metabolic changes resulting in an excess of bases in the system causing an increase in the normal ph range .
an acidosis caused by alteration in lactic acid metabolism .
an acidosis caused by alteration in the ketone bodies metabolic pathway due to defects in the 3 - oxoacid coa transferase 1 enzyme .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of levacetylmethadol ,  a synthetic opioid ,  similar in structure to methadone ,  used for the treatment and management of opioid dependence .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of levacetylmethadol .
the pathway of levacetylmethadol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of levorphanol ,  an opioid used for the treatment of moderate to severe pain .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of levorphanol .
the pathway of levorphanol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
an inherited condition resulting from alteration in lipid metabolism due to defects in lipase or apolipoprotein functions .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of heroin ,  an opioid painkiller and a narcotic .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of heroin .
the pathway of heroin - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
an autosomal recessive condition resulting from alterations in the transsulfuration pathway of homocysteine metabolism .
an inherited condition resulting from alterations in glutathione metabolism .
an inherited condition resulting from alterations in the urea cycle pathway .
those metabolic reactions involved in the oxidation of phytanic acid ,  a branched chain fatty acid .
an inherited condition resulting from alterations in carnosine metabolism due to defects in the enzyme carnosinase and manifested in neurological disorders .
an autosomal recessive disorder leading to the formation of urinary stones .
conditions leading to the formation of stones in any part of the urinary tract .
an autosomal condition resulting from alterations in cysteine metabolism due to defects in the enzyme mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase .
a rare condition resulting from possible alterations in amino acid metabolism for which the causative genes are a matter of debate .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of diphenoxylate ,  a drug of the phenulpiperidine sries used for the treatment of diarrhea .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of diphenoxylate .
the pathway of diphenoxylate - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
a condition resulting from alterations in glucose metabolism and homeostasis leading to abnormally low blood glucose levels .
an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from alterations in long chain fatty acid oxidation due to defects in the carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1a  ( cpt1a )  enzyme .
the reactions thereby dopamine can spontaneously oxidize under aerobic conditions .
an inheritied condition resulting from alterations in the degradation of branched - chain amino acid due to defects in the alpha subunit of methylcrotonyl coa carboxylase  ( mccc1 )  .
an inheritied condition resulting from alterations in the degradation of branched - chain amino acid due to defects in the beta subunit of methylcrotonyl coa carboxylase  ( mccc2 )  .
a brain - derived neurotrophic factor  ( bdnf )  signaling pathway that deviates from what it normal course should be .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis and utilization of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide  ( nad )  .
those metabolic reactions involved in the utilization of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide  ( nad )  .
mono -  and poly - adp - ribosylation of proteins is carried out by members of the parp family .
cyclic adp - ribosylation leads to the formation of second messengers with important roles in calcium signaling .
sirtuins belong to the class iii deacetylases that carry out nad - dependent deacetylation and other activities .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of carvedilol  -  a non - selective adrenergic beta receptor blocker ,  used in the treatment of mild to severe congestive heart failure .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of carvedilol .
the pathway of carvedilol - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
those conditions affecting the skeletal system and elements associated with it ,  arising from deregulation in a number of pathways .
a heterogeneous group of conditions with recessive ,  dominant ,  and x - linked forms .
those conditions resulting from the abnormal development of cartilage and bone .
the better characterized form of chondrodysplasia punctata due to defects in the ebp gene involved in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway .
the vitamin k cycle is an essential aspect of its metabolism .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of dabigatran ,  a direct thrombin inhibitor .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of dabigatran ,  a direct thrombin inhibitor .
the pathway of dabigatran - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of drugs that reduce or prevent the formation of blood clots by directly inhibiting activated factor x  ( xa )  .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of apixaban ,  a direct inhibitor of activated factor x  ( xa )  of the coagulation cascade .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of edoxaban ,  a direct inhibitor of activated factor x  ( xa )  of the coagulation cascade .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of rivaroxaban ,  a direct inhibitor of activated factor x  ( xa )  of the coagulation cascade .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of apixaban ,  a direct inhibitor of activated factor x  ( xa )  of the coagulation cascade .
the pathway of apixaban - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of edoxaban ,  a direct inhibitor of activated factor x  ( xa )  of the coagulation cascade .
the pathway of edoxaban - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of rivaroxaban ,  a direct inhibitor of activated factor x  ( xa )  of the coagulation cascade .
the pathway of rivaroxaban - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
proteases ,  the vitamin k - dependent coagulation proteases in particular ,  can activate a specific class of g protein - coupled receptors harboring an internally tethered ligand .
protease - activated receptor 1  ( par1 / f2r )  is primarily a target of coagulation factor 2 ,  thrombin ,  but other proteases can prompt or disarm it .
protease - activated receptor 2  ( par2 / f2rl1 )  is primarily a target of coagulation factor 10 ,  but other proteases can prompt or disarm it .
protease - activated receptor 4  ( par4 / f2rl3 )  is primarily a target of coagulation factor 2 ,  thrombin ,  but other proteases can prompt or disarm it .
protease - activated receptor 3  ( par3 / f2rl2 )  is primarily a target of coagulation factor 2 ,  thrombin ,  but other proteases can prompt or disarm it .
alterations in the hemostatic system can result in a series of pathological conditions .
alterations in the anticoagulant system are associated with various conditions .
alterations in the coagulation cascade have been associated with several conditions .
mutations in protein c  ( proc )  and its cofactor ,  protein s  ( pros1 )  are associated with several deficiencies .
the glyoxalase pathway is the main detoxifying  route to protect against the harmful effects of methylglyoxal  ( mg )  .
a fibrinolysis pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a condition resulting from alterations in the gluconeogenesis pathway due to defects in the cytosolic pck1 gene .
alterations in platelet - derived growth factor signaling are implicated in cancer development .
an oxidative stress response pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
a cellular detoxification pathway that deviates from what its normal course should be .
deregulation of nuclear factor ,  erythroid 2 like 2  ( nfe2l2 ,  also known as nrf2 )  signaling pathway has been associated with several conditions ,  including neurodegeneration and cancer .
several endogenous small proteins are involved in the antioxidant response .
ferroptosis is a non - apoptotic form of programmed cell death that is triggered by conditions or molecules that inhibit the gpx4 function .
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics pathway of bortezomib ,  a proteasome inhibitor used in the treatment of several cancer types .
the pathway of processing  -  absorption ,  distribution ,  metabolism or elimination  -  of bortezomib .
the pathway of bortezomib - target interaction and of the biochemical or physiological responses to drug .
paraquat ,  a chemical used as a herbicide and a powerful oxidant ,  is highly toxic to the mammalian system .
several systems are involved in the uptake of iron .
a single system is involved in the efflux of iron from many cell types .
heme and iron - sulfur cluster  ( isc )  biosynthetic pathways are the major routes of iron utilization .
the steps involved in the assembly and delivery of iron - sulfur  ( fe - s )  clusters  ( isc )  to fe - s proteins .
the mitochondrial pathway consists of the synthesis of  [ 2fe - 2s ]  cluster on scaffold proteins ,  cluster transfer and formation of mitochondrial  [ 2fe - 2s ]  proteins ,  and the synthesis of 4fe - 4s ]  cluster and the formation of  [ 4fe - 4s ]  proteins .
the cytosolic iron - sulfur cluster protein assembly pathway is dependent upon the core mitochondrial assembly and export pathways .
the core mitochondrial iron - sulfur assembly and export pathways are crucial for the assembly of cytosolic and nuclear fe - s proteins .
the molecular aspects of transport and intracellular trafficking of cofactors and prosthetic groups .
heme is a prosthetic group found in proteins important for many and diverse metabolic pathways .
acrolein is a reactive unsaturated aldehyde that is a dietary and environmental pollutant and can also be metabolically generated .
those enzymatic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization or degradation of alpha - linolenic acid  -  an unsaturated omega - 3 fatty acid .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of phosphatidylglycerol .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  folding and / or degradation of peptides and proteins ,  including the synthesis of protein / peptide / amino - acid based hormones .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  folding and / or degradation of peptide and protein hormones ,  and those derived from them .
the carrier pathway delivers many of the inner mitochondrial membrane proteins .
an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from alterations in the urea cycle pathway and due to defects in the hepatic mitochondrial enzyme carbamoyl phosphate synthetase 1 .
conditions resulting from alterations in the urea cycle pathway .
those metabolic reactions involved in the synthesis ,  utilization and / or degradation of phosphatidylserine ,  an essential component of the membrane ,  and also with roles in signaling .
acrolein is a reactive unsaturated aldehyde that is a dietary and environmental pollutant and can also be metabolically generated .
