a carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of n -  [  ( s )  - { [  ( 2r , 3s , 4r , 5r )  - 5 -  ( 4 - aminopyrrolo [ 2 , 1 - f ]  [ 1 , 2 , 4 ] triazin - 7 - yl )  - 5 - cyano - 3 , 4 - dihydroxytetrahydrofuran - 2 - yl ] methoxy} ( phenoxy ) phosphoryl ]  - l - alanine with the hydroxy group of 2 - ethylbutan - 1 - ol .
an inorganic peroxide consisting of two hydroxy groups joined by a covalent oxygen - oxygen single bond .
a compound in which a carbohydrate component is covalently bound to a protein component .
any member of the group of substituted penams containing two methyl substituents at position 2 ,  a carboxylate substituent at position 3 and a carboxamido group at position 6 .
a substance that destroys or inhibits replication of viruses .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a member of the class of phenylethanolamines that is 4 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 - hydroxyethyl )  - 2 -  ( hydroxymethyl ) phenol having a tert - butyl group attached to the nirogen atom .
an alpha - amino acid that is pyrrolidine bearing a carboxy substituent at position 2 .
a macrolide antibiotic useful for the treatment of bacterial infections .
a hydrochloride resulting from the reaction of equimolar amounts of bromhexine and hydrogen chloride .
a dicarboxylic acid diamide that is amphetamine is substituted on nitrogen by a  ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenoxy ) acetyl group and on the carbon alpha -  to nitrogen by a  ( 1s , 3s )  - 1 - hydroxy - 3 - { [  ( 2s )  - 3 - methyl - 2 -  ( 2 - oxotetrahydropyrimidin - 1 - yl ) butanoyl ] amino} - 4 - phenylbutyl group .
a pyridone that is 2 - pyridone substituted at positions 1 and 5 by phenyl and methyl groups respectively .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna ,  and any derivatives thereof .
an aminoquinoline that is quinoline which is substituted at position 4 by a  [ 5 -  ( diethylamino ) pentan - 2 - yl ] amino group at at position 7 by chlorine .
an n , n - disubstituted benzenesulfonamide bearing an unsubstituted amino group at the 4 - position ,  used for the treatment of hiv infection .
the 6 - o - methyl ether of erythromycin a ,  clarithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic used in the treatment of respiratory - tract ,  skin and soft - tissue infections .
a heavily substituted carbohydrazide that is an antiretroviral drug of the protease inhibitor  ( pi )  class used to treat infection of human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  .
a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is  ( 6e )  - 7 - {4 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl )  - 2 -  [ methyl ( methylsulfonyl ) amino ]  - 6 -  ( propan - 2 - yl ) pyrimidin - 5 - yl} hept - 6 - enoic acid carrying two hydroxy substituents at positions 3 and 5  ( the 3r , 5s - diastereomer )  .
a natural product found in actinomadura roseola .
an l - valine derivative that is l - valinamide in which alpha - amino group has been acylated by a  [  ( 2 - isopropyl - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl ) methyl ] methylcarbamoyl group and in which a hydrogen of the carboxamide amino group has been replaced by a  ( 2r , 4s , 5s )  - 4 - hydroxy - 1 , 6 - diphenyl - 5 - { [  ( 1 , 3 - thiazol - 5 - ylmethoxy ) carbonyl ] amino}hexan - 2 - yl group .
a member of the class of phenols that is 4 - aminophenol in which one of the hydrogens attached to the amino group has been replaced by an acetyl group .
a pyrimidopyrimidine that is 2 , 2' , 2'' , 2''' -  ( pyrimido [ 5 , 4 - d ] pyrimidine - 2 , 6 - diyldinitrilo ) tetraethanol substituted by piperidin - 1 - yl groups at positions 4 and 8 respectively .
a third - generation cephalosporin antibiotic bearing vinyl and  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  [  ( carboxymethoxy ) imino ] acetamido groups at positions 3 and 7 ,  respectively ,  of the cephem skeleton .
any of several wide - spectrum macrolide antibiotics obtained from actinomycete saccharopolyspora erythraea  ( formerly known as streptomyces erythraeus )  .
a dihydroxyanthraquinone that is 1 , 4 - dihydroxy - 9 , 10 - anthraquinone which is substituted by 6 - hydroxy - 1 , 4 - diazahexyl groups at positions 5 and 8 .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
a naphthoquinone compound having a 4 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) cyclohexyl group at the 2 - position and a hydroxy substituent at the 3 - position .
an aminoquinoline that is chloroquine in which one of the n - ethyl groups is hydroxylated at position 2 .
a monocarboxylic acid that is propionic acid in which one of the hydrogens at position 2 is substituted by a 4 -  ( 2 - methylpropyl ) phenyl group .
a substance used as an indicator  of a biological state .
a broad spectrum ,  third - generation cephalosporin antibiotic with  ( z )  - 2 -  ( 4 - methyl - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 5 - yl ) ethenyl and  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetamido groups at positions 3 and 7 ,  respectively ,  of the cephem skeleton .
a mixture consisting of  > = 90% 22 , 23 - dihydroavermectin b1a  ( r = me )  and  < = 10% 22 , 23 - dihydroavermectin b1b  ( r = h )  .
a pyrazole that is antiipyrine substituted at c - 4 by a methyl ( sulfomethyl ) amino group ,  the sodium salt of which ,  metamizole sodium ,  was widely used as a powerful analgesic and antipyretic ,  but withdrawn from many markets from the 1970s due to a risk of causing risk of causing agranulocytosis .
an aminodiol that consists of propane - 1 , 3 - diol having amino and 2 -  ( 4 - octylphenyl ) ethyl substituents at the 2 - position .
a 1 - ribosyltriazole that is the 1 - ribofuranosyl derivative of 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole - 3 - carboxamide .
an aspartic acid derivative obtained by formal condensation of the primary amino group of  ( 2s , 3r )  - 4 -  [  ( 3s , 4as , 8as )  - 3 -  ( tert - butylcarbamoyl ) octahydroisoquinolin - 2 ( 1h )  - yl ]  - 3 - hydroxy - 1 - phenylbutan - 2 - ylamine with the carboxy group of n ( 2 )  (  - quinolin - 2 - ylcarbonyl )  - l - asparagine .
a pyridine - 2 - sulfonamide substituted at c - 5 by a trifluoromethyl group and at the sulfonamide nitrogen by a dihydropyrone - containing m - tolyl substituent .
a monocarboxylic acid amide obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of 5 - methyl - 1 , 2 - oxazole - 4 - carboxylic acid with the anilino group of 4 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) aniline .
a pyrazole substituted at position 1 by a 2 - cyano - 1 - cyclopentylethyl group and at position 3 by a pyrrolo [ 2 , 3 - d ] pyrimidin - 4 - yl group .
an ether that is  ( s )  -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  ( pyridin - 2 - yl ) methanol in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is substituted by a 1 -  ( 3 - carboxypropyl ) piperidin - 4 - yl group .
a monocarboxylic acid amide obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of  ( 2s )  - 2 -  ( { [  ( 2 - isopropyl - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl ) methyl ]  ( methyl ) carbamoyl}amino )  - 4 -  ( morpholin - 4 - yl ) butanoic acid with the amino group of 1 , 3 - thiazol - 5 - ylmethyl  [  ( 2r , 5r )  - 5 - amino - 1 , 6 - diphenylhexan - 2 - yl ] carbamate .
an aryl sulfide that is used  ( as its mesylate salt )  for treatment of hiv and also exhibits some anticancer properties .
an amidobenzoic acid that is anthranilic acid in which one of the anilino hydrogens is replaced by a 3 , 4 - dimethoxycinnamoyl group .
a sulfonamide with a structure based on that of sulfanilamide substituted on the sulfonamide nitrogen by a  ( 2r , 3s )  - 4 - phenyl - 2 -  ( phosphonooxy )  - 3 -  ( { [  ( 3s )  - tetrahydrofuran - 3 - yloxy ] carbonyl}amino ) butyl group .
a nucleotide conjugate that is used in combination with ledipasvir  ( under the trade name harvoni )  for the treatment of chronic hepatitis c genotype 1 infection .
a class of sulfonamides whose members generally have bacteriostatic antibiotic properties .
a pyrazolo [ 4 , 3 - d ] pyrimidin - 7 - one having a methyl substituent at the 1 - position ,  a propyl substituent at the 3 - position and a 2 - ethoxy - 5 -  [  ( 4 - methylpiperazin - 1 - yl ) sulfonyl ] phenyl group at the 5 - position .
a  racemate comprising equimolar amounts of r -  and s - thalidomide .
the determination of the mass of a gas or vapour adsorbed to a surface .
microscopy where the specimen ,  which is cooled in liquid ethane to 180 °c ,  is bombarded with a finely focused  (  < 10 nm diameter )  electron beam with an acceleration voltage 50–150 kv under vacuum and the interaction of the electrons with the specimen produces transmitted ,  secondary ,  backscattered and diffracted electrons and characteristic x - rays which are detected .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell in vitro that is or has been maintained or propagated as part of a cell culture .
a connective tissue cell that normally gives rise to other cells that are organized as three - dimensional masses .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a mature alpha - beta t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd4 coreceptor .
a t cell expressing an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd8 coreceptor .
an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
a memory b cell is a mature b cell that is long - lived ,  readily activated upon re - encounter of its antigenic determinant ,  and has been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
a mesenchymal stem cell of the umbilical cord .
any term from the covoc vocabulary
a cell - based assay that uses b cells .
any person meeting the laboratory criteria for covid - 19 .
any conformational change in a protein that causes a part of the protein to become inaccessible .
a sample of feces .
a strategy whereby viruses may evade neutralizing antibodies .
the ability of a foreign substance ,  such as an antigen ,  to provoke an immune response in the body of a human or other animal .
a medical specialty that deals with critically ill patients who have ,  are at risk of ,  or are recovering from conditions that may be life - threatening .
used with bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi ,  protozoa ,  and helminths for the obtaining of pure strains or for the demonstration of the presence of or identification of organisms by dna analyses ,  immunologic ,  or other methods ,  including culture techniques .
analysis of microbial and host genetic material  ( dna or rna )  in small - quantity samples from patients .
an assay based on binding to the major histocompatibility complex .
a sample taken from the nasopharyngeal tract .
a sample taken from the oropharyngeal tract .
a testing method that is significantly faster than others ,  e .g .
a cell - based assay that uses t cells .
a t cell epitope is presented on the surface of an antigen - presenting cell ,  where it is bound to mhc molecules .
a widely used analytical technique in molecular biology and immunogenetics to detect specific proteins in a sample of tissue homogenate or extract .
any person meeting the clinical criteria for covid - 19 .
any person meeting the clinical criteria for covid - 19 with an epidemiological link ,  or any person meeting the diagnostic criteria for covid - 19 .
efficacy and safety of corticosteroids in covid - 19
recombinant human angiotensin - converting enzyme 2  ( rhace2 )  as a treatment for patients with covid - 19
eculizumab  ( soliris )  in covid - 19 infected patients
study to evaluate the safety and antiviral activity of remdesivir  ( gs - 5734™ )  in participants with moderate coronavirus disease  ( covid - 19 )  compared to standard of care treatment
study to evaluate the safety and antiviral activity of remdesivir  ( gs - 5734™ )  in participants with severe coronavirus disease  ( covid - 19 ) 
multicenter clinical study on the efficacy and safety of xiyanping injection in the treatment of new coronavirus infection pneumonia  ( general and severe ) 
a pilot study of sildenafil in covid - 19
tocilizumab vs crrt in management of cytokine release syndrome  ( crs )  in covid - 19
comparison of hydroxychloroquine in patients with mild coronavirus disease  ( covid - 19 ) 
comparison of lopinavir / ritonavir in patients with mild coronavirus disease  ( covid - 19 ) 
favipiravir combined with tocilizumab in the treatment of corona virus disease 2019
evaluation of the efficacy and safety of sarilumab in hospitalized patients with covid - 19
hydroxychloroquine treatment for severe covid - 19 pulmonary infection  ( hydra trial ) 
the efficacy and safety of huai er in the adjuvant treatment of covid - 19
hyperimmune plasma for critical patients with covid - 19  ( cov19 - plasma ) 
clinical trial on regularity of tcm syndrome and differentiation treatment of covid - 19 .
tocilizumab in covid - 19 pneumonia  ( tocivid - 19 )   ( tocivid - 19 ) 
ace inhibitors ,  angiotensin ii type - i receptor blockers and severity of covid - 19  ( codiv - ace ) 
treatment of moderate to severe coronavirus disease  ( covid - 19 )  in hospitalized patients
treatment of covid - 19 cases and chemoprophylaxis of contacts as prevention  ( hcq4cov19 ) 
the use pul - 042 inhalation solution to prevent covid - 19 in adults exposed to sars - cov - 2
hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate covid - 19 to prevent progression to severe infection or death
the use of pul - 042 inhalation solution to reduce the severity of covid - 19 in adults positive for sars - cov - 2 infection
nestcell® mesenchymal stem cell to treat patients with severe covid - 19 pneumonia  ( hope ) 
the efficacy and safety of thalidomide in the adjuvant treatment of moderate new coronavirus  ( covid - 19 )  pneumonia
the efficacy and safety of thalidomide combined with low - dose hormones in the treatment of severe covid - 19
fingolimod in covid - 19
therapy for pneumonia patients iinfected by 2019 novel coronavirus
cd24fc as a non - antiviral immunomodulator in covid - 19 treatment  ( sac - covid ) 
treatment with mesenchymal stem cells for severe corona virus disease 2019 ( covid - 19 ) 
the clinical study of carrimycin on treatment patients with covid - 19
an immune response mediated by cells expressing specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for an enhanced secondary response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
an inflammatory response to an exogenous environmental antigen or an endogenous antigen initiated by the adaptive immune system .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
the cellular metabolic process in which a cell duplicates one or more molecules of dna .
any process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
the cellular metabolic process in which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna or circrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the hydrolysis of proteins into smaller polypeptides and / or amino acids by cleavage of their peptide bonds .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
the cellular catabolic process in which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm ;  allows for both recycling of macromolecular constituents under conditions of cellular stress and remodeling the intracellular structure for cell differentiation .
a programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal  ( e .g .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the set of specific processes that generate the ability of an organism to induce an abnormal ,  generally detrimental state in another organism .
the movement of an organism ,  or part of an organism ,  in response to an external source of stimulus ,  usually toward or away from it .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
the process in which double - stranded rnas silence cognate genes .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
the complete fully infectious extracellular virus particle .
the complete protein - nucleic acid complex that is the packaged form of the genome in a virus particle .
the dissemination of mature viral particles from the host cell ,  e .g .
any process involved directly in viral genome replication ,  including viral nucleotide metabolism .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
the lipid bilayer of a virion ,  a complete fully infectious extracellular virus particle .
the replication of a viral dna genome .
the replication of a viral rna genome .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
a cell within a host organism .
the process that occurs after viral attachment by which a virus ,  or viral nucleic acid ,  breaches the plasma membrane or cell envelope and enters the host cell .
the membrane organization process that joins two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of nucleic acid  ( dna or rna )  .
any geographic area greater than an individual country but smaller than a continent ,  used as a convenience reference .
a collective generic term that refers here to a wide variety of dependencies ,  areas of special sovereignty ,  uninhabited islands ,  and other entities in addition to the traditional countries or independent states .
the presence of chronic increased pressure in the systemic arterial system .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin ,  or in one or more cavities of the body .
a red eruption of the skin .
pruritus is an itch or a sensation that makes a person want to scratch .
raised ,  well - circumscribed areas of erythema and edema involving the dermis and epidermis .
a rapid heartrate that exceeds the range of the normal resting heartrate for age .
reduced ability to pass air through the nasal cavity often leading to mouth breathing .
elevated body temperature due to failed thermoregulation .
forceful ejection of the contents of the stomach through the mouth by means of a series of involuntary spasmic contractions .
abnormally increased frequency of loose or watery bowel movements .
nausea is a commonly encountered symptom that has been defined as an unpleasant painless subjective feeling that one will imminently vomit .
a sensation of unease in the stomach together with an urge to vomit .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  and perceived to originate in the abdomen .
difficult or labored breathing .
very rapid breathing .
an elevated lipid concentration in the blood .
pain in muscle .
inflammation of the bronchioles .
a subjective feeling of tiredness characterized by a lack of energy and motivation .
an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage ,  or described in terms of such damage .
a sudden ,  audible expulsion of air from the lungs through a partially closed glottis ,  preceded by inhalation .
a sudden sensation of feeling cold .
a state characterized by a feeling of weakness and loss of strength leading to a generalized weakness of the body .
crackles are discontinuous ,  explosive ,  and nonmusical adventitious lung sounds normally heard in inspiration and sometimes during expiration .
a cough that does not produce phlegm or mucus .
increased discharge of mucus from the nose .
abnormal appearance of material expectorated  ( coughed up )  from the respiratory system and that is composed of mucus but may contain other substances such as pus ,  blood ,  microorganisms ,  and fibrin .
diffuse alveolar damage  ( dad )  describes a comon histologic injury pattern of the lung .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the chest .
systemic inflammatory response to infection .
a quality that inheres in an infectious agent and is the likelihood that the infectious agent will undergo a horizontal transmission process .
a quality that inheres in an infectious agent and is the liklihood that the infectious disposition will be realized upon exposure of a susceptible organism .
a process in which multiple infectious disease epidemics of the same type of infectious disease unfold over overlapping periods of time and affect organism populations located in different geographic regions ,  including different countries and continents .
a continuous temporal interval beginning with the extablishment of an infectious agent colony and ending with the onset of symptoms  ( or infectious disease course?
testing blood serum for the presence of specifc antibody or antibodies to a specific antigen .
gene therapy involves the use of nucleic acids  ( dna or rna )  for the treatment ,  cure or prevention of human disorders .
a melancholy feeling of sadness and despair .
inflammation of the throat most often caused by viral and bacterial infections .
a reduction in the number of red blood cells ,  the amount of hemoglobin ,  and / or the volume of packed red blood cells .
a bronchial disease that is characterized by chronic inflammation and narrowing of the airways ,  which is caused by a combination of environmental and genetic factors resulting in recurring periods of wheezing  ( a whistling sound while breathing )  ,  chest tightness ,  shortness of breath ,  mucus production and coughing .
a disease involving the cardiovascular system .
a chronic and progressive lung disorder characterized by the loss of elasticity of the bronchial tree and the air sacs ,  destruction of the air sacs wall ,  thickening of the bronchial wall ,  and mucous accumulation in the bronchial tree .
a metabolic disorder characterized by abnormally high blood sugar levels due to diminished production of insulin or insulin resistance / desensitization .
a viral respiratory infection caused by the sars coronavirus .
any disease caused by a virus .
an acute ,  acute and chronic ,  or chronic inflammation focally or diffusely affecting the lung parenchyma ,  caused by an infection in one or both of the lungs  ( by bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi ,  or mycoplasma . )  .
a disorder resulting from the presence and activity of a microbial ,  viral ,  or parasitic agent .
a category of psychiatric disorders which are characterized by anxious feelings or fear often accompanied by physical symptoms associated with anxiety .
virus diseases caused by the coronavirus genus .
an acute viral infection of the respiratory tract ,  occurring in isolated cases ,  in epidemics ,  or in pandemics ;  it is caused by serologically different strains of viruses  ( influenzaviruses )  designated a ,  b ,  and c ,  has a 3 - day incubation period ,  and usually lasts for 3 to 10 days .
progressive and life - threatening pulmonary distress in the absence of an underlying pulmonary condition ,  usually following major trauma or surgery .
a chronic disorder characterized by reflux of the gastric and / or duodenal contents into the distal esophagus .
various conditions with the symptom of headache .
a respiratory tract infection caused by a virus .
invasion of the host respiratory system by microorganisms ,  usually leading to pathological processes or diseases .
an infectious disease of non - human animals that may be transmitted to humans or may be transmitted from humans to non - human animals ,  caused by a pathogen  ( an infectious agent ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  parasites ,  prions ,  etc )  .
an acute hypersensitivity reaction that occurs from exposure to an allergen .
a disease caused by infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 .
a viral respiratory infection that is caused by the mers coronavirus  ( mers - cov )  ,  which most often manifests with moderate to severe respiratory symptoms ,  including productive cough and shortness of breath ,  which can progress to pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome .
an infectious disease where a pathogen is carried and transmitted by another organism that acts as disease vector .
a covid - 19 infection where individuals test positive for sars - cov - 2 but have no symptoms across the entire course of the disease .
a covid - 19 infection that presents with various signs and symptoms  ( e .g . ,  fever ,  cough ,  sore throat ,  malaise ,  headache ,  muscle pain )  without shortness of breath ,  dyspnea ,  or abnormal imaging .
a covid - 19 infection where individuals who have evidence of lower respiratory disease by clinical assessment or imaging and a saturation of oxygen  ( spo2 )   > 93% on room air at sea level .
a covid - 19 infection where individuals have respiratory frequency  > 30 breaths per minute ,  spo2 ≤93% on room air at sea level ,  ratio of arterial partial pressure of oxygen to fraction of inspired oxygen  ( pao2 / fio2 )   < 300 ,  or lung infiltrates  > 50% .
a covid - 19 infection that involves respiratory failure ,  septic shock ,  and / or multiple organ dysfunction .
the degree of urgency in which a medical procedure must be performed .
technologies that facilitate the rapid determination of the nucleotide sequence of large numbers of strands or segments of dna or rna .
this gene plays a role in both proteolysis and vasodilation .
the placement ,  arrangement of instance of entities within a space .
the sequence of amino acids along a polypeptide chain .
the simplest form of an antigenic determinant ,  on a complex antigenic molecule ,  which can combine with antibody or t cell receptor .
fluid introduced into ,  and collected from ,  the lungs by a bronchoalveolar lavage procedure .
a sequence of nucleotides in that contains no termination codons and so can potentially translate as a polypeptide chain .
the sequence of nucleotide residues along a dna chain .
the clear portion of the blood that remains after the removal of the blood cells and the clotting proteins .
a solution consisting of a combination of two toll - like receptor  ( tlr )  ligands: pam2csk4 acetate  ( pam2 )  ,  a synthetic diacylated lipopeptide  ( lp )  that is an agonist of tlr2 and tlr6  ( tlr2 / 6 )  and the tlr9 agonist oligodeoxynucleotide  ( odn )  m362 ,  which contains unmethylated cpg - based dinucleotides ,  with potential immunostimulating activity .
rna binding domains  ( rbd )  mediate the interaction of rnas with rna - binding proteins .
any very large complex molecule including ,  proteins ,  nucleic acids and carbohydrates ,  especially refering to the particular arrangement of its component atoms and groups .
research conducted with human subjects or on material of human origin in which an investigator directly interacts with human subjects ;  includes development of new technologies ,  study of mechanisms of human diseases ,  therapy ,  clinical trials ,  epidemiologic ,  behavior ,  and health services research .
the investigation ,  analysis and recognition of the presence and nature of disease ,  condition ,  or injury from expressed signs and symptoms ;  also ,  the scientific determination of any kind ;  the concise results of such an investigation .
inoculating an individual with either killed or live agents to prevent contraction of a disease .
a study type is an experimental factor describing the method of investigating particular types of research questions or solving particular types of problems ,  for example ,  a  set of protocols  ( which may specify how and what kinds of data will be gathered )  .
an information set with a regular structure .
systematic investigation into a subject in order to discover facts ,  establish or revise a theory ,  or develop a plan of action based on the facts discovered .
a biospecimen collected from the back of the throat by swabbing .
the systematic collection ,  analysis ,  and interpretation of health data on an ongoing basis .
data obtained through patient examination or treatment .
therapeutic ,  nutritional ,  environmental ,  social and / or behavioral interventions at the societal ,  community ,  organizational or individual levels to reduce ,  modify or stop the course of a disease .
determining the antigens  ( whole virus ,  parts or crossreacting )  to be incorporated in a vaccine
the study of the causes ,  incidence and distribution of disease in the population and its application for prevention or control .
a functional unit of heredity which occupies a specific position on a particular chromosome and serves as the template for a product that contributes to a phenotype or a biological function .
the science that deals with the study of microorganisms ,  including algae ,  archaea ,  bacteria ,  fungi ,  protozoa ,  and viruses .
theoretical representations that simulate the behavior or activity of systems ,  processes ,  or phenomena .
morbidity ;  the relative incidence of a particular disease in a population .
a person who receives medical attention ,  care ,  or treatment ,  or who is registered with medical professional or institution with the purpose to receive medical care when necessary .
the study of the mechanical ,  physical ,  and biochemical functions of living organisms .
the ratio  ( for a given time period )  of the number of occurrences of a disease or event to the number of units at risk in the population .
the science and practice of protecting and improving the health of a community ,  as by preventive medicine ,  health education ,  control of communicable diseases ,  application of sanitary measures ,  and monitoring of environmental hazards .
people engaged in research .
an enzyme that catalyzes the template - directed addition of ribonucleotides to the 3' end of a growing rna chain .
continuance of life or existence especially under adverse conditions ;  includes methods and philosophy of survival .
a passage or transfer ,  as of a disease from one individual to another .
genetic variation consists of deviation ( s )  in the nucleotide sequence of the genetic material of an individual from that typical of the group to which the individual belongs ,  or deviation ( s )  in the nucleotide sequence of the genetic material of offspring from that of its parents .
a systematic statement of policy rules or principles .
the determination of the sequence of component residues in a macromolecule ,  e .g .
an innate tolerance that prevents the body from attacking native proteins and tissue .
an antibody that binds to endogenous or exogenous compounds and inhibits the biological activity of that compound .
the microscopic study of characteristic tissue abnormalities by employing various cytochemical and immunocytochemical stains .
a variation of a single nucleotide at a specific location of the genome due to base substitution ,  present at an appreciable frequency between individuals of a single interbreeding population .
temporary ,  non - covalent binding between protein molecules .
molecular biology procedures ,  including northern blot ,  differential display ,  rt - pcr ,  and rnase protection for qualifying or quantifying rna .
occupations within the field of medicine .
allowing establishment of infection or acceptance of graft material .
an antibody produced by a clone or genetically homogenous fast - growing cells i .e . ,  hybridoma .
a class of soluble glycoproteins which act nonenzymatically through specific receptors to regulate immune responses .
human interferons have been classified into 3 groups: alpha ,  beta ,  and gamma .
a reduction in the sensitivity to a drug following its repeated administration ,  in which increased doses are required to produce the same magnitude of effect previously produced by a smaller dose .
this gene plays a role in the activation of pathway signaling .
the condition of being treated as a patient in a hospital .
the ability to respond to physical stimuli or to register small physical amounts or differences .
relating to or involved in therapy .
one or more characters used to identify ,  name ,  or characterize the nature ,  properties ,  or contents of a thing .
examination and interpretation ;  the process of identifying an issue to be understood and addressed ,  modelling the issue ,  investigating the model results ,  interpreting the results ,  and possibly making a recommendation .
research focusing on any aspect of vaccine research ,  development ,  testing ,  etc .
a class of agents used in prophylactic or curative therapy to attenuate the negative side effects of toxins or drugs .
an x - ray examination of the chest .
without clinical signs or indications that raise the possibility of a particular disorder or dysfunction .
the probability that a test will produce a true negative result when used on non - effected subjects as compared to a reference or "gold standard" .
a drug product that contains one or more active and / or inactive ingredients ;  it is intended to treat ,  prevent or alleviate the symptoms of disease .
a procedure to determine the number of cells in a sample .
a class of viral vaccines based on adenovirus genome which was engineered to harbor gene of therapeutic interest ,  and were to be used in vaccination against cancers .
a person qualified to be engaged in activity directed at preservation of mental and physical health by diseases prevention and treatment as a source of livelihood .
the act of going from one place to another .
the act of extending over a wider scope or expanse of space or time .
a sudden unforeseen crisis that requires immediate action .
the presence of any substance or organism that makes a preparation impure .
the process of removing impurities .
a method to mechanically assist or replace spontaneous breathing in patients by use of a powered device that forces oxygenated air into the lungs .
a research study that prospectively assigns human participants or groups of humans to one or more health - related interventions to evaluate the effects on health outcomes .
place into enforced isolation .
a united nations agency established to coordinate international health activities and to help governments improve health services .
a finding that has treatment or management implications for a patient's condition .
the sequence of nucleotide residues along an rna chain .
preparations containing substances with antigenic properties administered to activate the immune system ,  thereby inducing an immune response .
the act of rendering something ineffective or inactive .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a population is a collection of individuals from the same taxonomic class living ,  counted or sampled at a particular site or in a particular area
reverse transcribe pcr is a process which allow amplification of cdna during a pcr reaction while the cdna results from a retrotranscription of messenger rna isolated from a material entity .
an analyte assay where binding of an enzyme linked antibody to a material entity that is immobilized on solid support is detected utilizing a chemiluminescent reaction .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population whose sex organs contain only male gametes .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
a protein that is a translation product of the human dpp4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a class 2 cytokine ,  il - 10 type that is a translation product of the human il10 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a subtilisin / kexin - type proprotein convertase that is a translation product of the human furin gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an angiotensinogen that has had the signal peptide removed .
an immunoglobulin heavy chain protein in which the constant region is encoded by some igg gene segment .
a rep gene proteolytic cleavage product  ( sars - cov - 2 )  that is the portion produced by the autocatalytic action of pl - pro proteinase  ( nsp3 )  when it cleaves the precursor between residues 818 - 819 and 2763 - 2764 .
a transmembrane protease serine 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a rep gene translation product  ( sars - cov - 2 )  that is a translation product of some mrna giving rise to a protein with the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:p0dtc1 - 1 .
a protein that is a translation product of the s gene in sars - cov - 2 .
a protein that is a translation product of the orf3a gene in sars - cov - 2 .
a protein that is a translation product of the e gene in sars - cov - 2 .
a protein that is a translation product of the m gene in sars - cov - 2 .
a protein that is a translation product of the orf7a gene in sars - cov - 2 .
a protein that is a translation product of the n gene in sars - cov - 2 .
a rep gene translation product  ( sars - cov - 2 )  that is a translation product of some mrna giving rise to a protein with the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:p0dtd1 - 1 .
an angiotensin - converting enzyme that is encoded in the genome of human .
an interleukin - 10 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an angiotensin - converting enzyme 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - type lectin domain family 4 member m that is encoded in the genome of human .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
a fluid produced in the oral cavity by salivary glands ,  typically used in predigestion ,  but also in other functions .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
an experimental factor in array express which are essentially the variable aspects of an experiment design which can be used to describe an experiment ,  or set of experiments ,  in an increasingly detailed manner .
an antibody function  ( or antigen binding function )  is an infection - fighting protein molecule in blood or secretory fluids that tags ,  neutralizes ,  and helps destroy pathogenic microorganisms such as bacteria ,  viruses and toxins .
a disease is a disposition to undergo pathological processes that exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
a genetic modification of the genome of  an organism which may occur naturally by spontaneous mutation ,  or be introduced by some experimental means .
an animal or plant or part thereof that nourishes and supports a parasite either in a lab or natural environment .
the state of being infected such as from the introduction of a foreign agent such as serum ,  vaccine ,  antigenic substance or organism .
a measurement of the survival rate for a group of individuals suffering from a disease .
a biological agent that causes disease or illness to its host
the observable form taken by some character  ( or group of characters )  in an individual or an organism ,  excluding pathology and disease .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the respiratory system .
time of survival is an information entity which is about the length of time a material entity has survived after some adverse event ,  such as infection from a disease .
the probabilty of continuance of life or existence especially under adverse conditions ;  probably need a parent survival metric or similar
the process of bringing about genetic alteration of any cell or organism by a variety of means including recombinant dna technology ,  viruses ,  chemical mutagens and x - rays .
a planned process intended to modify or alter a condition or characteristic of an organism or individual .
the act of directing or determining ;  regulation or maintenance of a function or action ;  a relation of constraint of one entity  ( thing or person or group )  by another .
an activity that produces an effect ,  or that is intended to alter the course of a disease in a patient or population .
objective evidence of disease perceptible to the examining physician  ( sign )  and subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient  ( symptom )  .
any aspect of an individual's life ,  behavior ,  an environmental exposure ,  or an inborn or inherited characteristic that increases the likelihood of a disease ,  condition or injury .
a process that involves adding vaccine into a host  ( e .g . ,  human ,  mouse )  in vivo with the intent to invoke a protective immune response .
quantification of the number of deaths in a population .
a genome is the full genetic content of an organism ,  contained in either dna or rna  ( such as for viruses )  .
the age at which some process ,  or disease started in a human individual .
huh - 7 is a well differentiated hepatocyte derived cellular carcinoma cell line that was originally taken from a liver tumor in a 57 - year - old japanese male in 1982 .
where a drug or surgery has been used to treat an individual with a particular condition .
acute upper respiratory airways infection that results in the swelling of the larynx .
a feeling of general discomfort or uneasiness ,  an out - of - sorts feeling .
a symptom and a finding during physical examination ,  characterized by a high - pitched ,  whistling sound during breathing .
a difficulty in breathing .
an action or administration of therapeutic agents to produce an effect that is intended to alter or stop a pathologic process .
treatment of disease through the use of drugs .
a measurement of the quantity of virus in a given volume of body fluid .
an oligonucleotide used to start the reaction in a polymerase - chain reaction .
the simultaneous infection of a host by multiple pathogen species .
the state of being free from fever .
