a conjugation process that results in the union of cellular and genetic information from compatible mating types .
a cellular process resulting in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from one ,  or more commonly ,  two ,  strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides .
the process whereby new strands of dna are synthesized .
the process of restoring dna after damage .
any process by which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
the synthesis of either rna on a template of dna or dna on a template of rna .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving trna ,  transfer rna ,  a class of relatively small rna molecules responsible for mediating the insertion of amino acids into the sequence of nascent polypeptide chains during protein synthesis .
the cellular metabolic process by which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the process of assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a protein complex .
the addition of a sugar unit to a protein amino acid ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the process of targeting specific proteins to particular membrane - bounded subcellular organelles .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism .
the directed movement of molecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion ;  includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution ,  and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a peroxisome .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
the process by which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the nuclear division phase of a meiotic cell cycle ,  the specialized nuclear and cell division in which a single diploid cell undergoes two nuclear divisions following a single round of dna replication in order to produce four daughter cells that contain half the number of chromosomes as the diploid cell .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
the cascade of processes by which a signal interacts with a receptor ,  causing a change in the level or activity of a second messenger or other downstream target ,  and ultimately effecting a change in the functioning of the cell .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progress through the mitotic cell cycle .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mrna ,  messenger rna ,  which is responsible for carrying the coded genetic 'message' ,  transcribed from dna ,  to sites of protein assembly at the ribosomes .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within a cell by a cellular process that begins with the formation of membrane - bounded vesicles in which the transported substances are enclosed or located in the vesicle membrane .
the alteration of dna or protein in chromatin ,  which may result in changing the chromatin structure .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium at the level of the cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
the process whereby cells that are products of meiosis acquire the specialized features of ascospores .
the specifically regulated synthesis of rna from dna encoding a specific gene or set of genes by rna polymerase ii  ( pol ii )  ,  originating at a pol ii - specific promoter .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the process of the formation of the constituents of the ribosome subunits ,  their assembly ,  and their transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor ,  a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
the process whereby a solute is transported from one side of a membrane to the other .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides and nucleotides .
a protein modification process by which one or more moieties of a small protein ,  such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin - like protein ,  are covalently attached to or removed from a target protein .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cell wall .
