a planned process that has specified output a software product and that involves the creation of source code .
a measurement datum that is the output of counting .
the planned process of finding the number of elements in a finite set of objects .
a document that comprises at least one source code module and provenance data about who contributed the set of files making up the module ( s )  ,  and optionally comprises also multiple versions of files with detailed change history about who committed files and when ,  a license for the software ,  readme files ,  documentation ,  executables ,  etc .
a planned process that has a data set as its specified output .
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant  that is either dependent on one or other independent continuant  bearers or inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
an oxygen hydride consisting of an oxygen atom that is covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
an adenosine 5' - phosphate in which the 5' - phosphate is a triphosphate group .
an organic heterobicyclic compound that consists of 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazole having a valeric acid substituent attached to the tetrahydrothiophene ring .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
an aldohexose used as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate .
an adenosine 5' - phosphate having a sulfo group attached to one the phosphate oh groups .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a member of the class of n - nitrosoureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by ethyl and nitroso groups .
nuclear particle of charge number  + 1 ,  spin 1 / 2 and rest mass of 1 .007276470 ( 12 )  u .
a low - molecular - mass compound present in bioluminescent organisms that emits light when oxidized in presence of enzyme luciferase .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
a member of the class of acrylamides that results from the formal condensation of acrylic acid with ammonia .
the stable isotope of hydrogen with relative atomic mass 2 .014102 and a natural abundance of 0 .0115 atom percent  ( from greek deltaepsilonupsilontauepsilonrhoomicronnu ,  second )  .
a xanthene dye that is highly fluorescent ,  detectable even when present in minute quantities .
the hydrate of gadodiamide .
a non - ionic gadolinium chelate having a macrocyclic tetraamine framework .
3h - 2 , 1 - benzoxathiole 1 , 1 - dioxide in which both of the hydrogens at position 3 have been substituted by 4 - hydroxyphenyl groups .
the dihydrate of trisodium citrate .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a cobalt group element atom of atomic number 45 .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing ribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  rna is central to the synthesis of proteins .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a non - ionic gadolinium chelate having a macrocyclic triamine framework .
the radioactive isotope of phosphorus with relative atomic mass 31 .973907 and half - life of 14 .26 days .
the radioactive isotope of phosphorus with relative atomic mass 32 .971725 ,  half - life of 25 .34 days and nuclear spin  ( 1 )  / 2 .
a hydroxy steroid that consists of 5beta - cardanolide having a double bond at the 20 ( 22 )  - position as well as hydroxy groups at the 3beta -  ,  12beta -  and 14beta - positions .
a pyrimidine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside compound having 5 - bromouracil as the nucleobase .
a synthetic radioactive isotope of chromium having a half - life of 27 .7 days and decaying by electron capture with emission of gamma rays  ( 0 .32 mev )  ;  it is used to label red blood cells for measurement of mass or volume ,  survival time ,  and sequestration studies ,  for the diagnosis of gastrointestinal bleeding ,  and to label platelets to study their survival .
a fluorescent dye of absorption wavelength 555 nm and emission wavelength 565 nm ,  derived from a 3 , 6 - diaminoxanthene - 4 , 5 - disulfate .
thymidine linked to the radioisotope tritium .
the dimethyl ester of sulfuric acid .
the diethyl ester of dicarbonic acid .
a butanone derivative having two hydroxy substituents at the 1 - position and an ethoxy substituent at the 3 - position .
a carbodiimide having cyclcohexyl and 2 -  ( 4 - morpholinyl ) ethyl as the two n - substituents .
a 3 , 1 - benzoxazin - 1 , 4 - dione having an n - methyl substituent .
a tetracarboxylic acid consisting of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid having a 4 - bromoacetamidobenzyl group at the c1 - position and  ( s )  - configuration .
a combined intercalating and chelating reagent .
3h - 2 , 1 - benzoxathiole 1 , 1 - dioxide in which both of the hydrogens at position 3 have been substituted by 3 , 5 - dibromo - 4 - hydroxyphenyl groups .
an inorganic radical in which a free electron resides on one or more oxygen atoms of an oxygen species .
a primary amino compound that is tert - butylamine in which one hydrogen attached to each methyl group is replaced by a hydroxy group .
any type of microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by illuminating it with light of specific wavelengths .
microscopy where the specimen can be made to fluoresce  ( emit energy as visible light )  by scanning a gas  ( ar or kr )  laser spot of specific wavelength over its surface and using a spatial pinhole to eliminate out - of - focus fluorescence .
microscopy where the specimen is illuminated with visible light and a system of lenses is used to produce an image .
a method where a sample mixture is first separated by liquid chromatography before being ionised and characterised by mass - to - charge ratio and relative abundance using two mass spectrometers in series .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cultured cell that is freshly isolated from a organismal source ,  or derives in culture from such a cell prior to the culture being passaged .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
a cell in vitro that is or has been maintained or propagated as part of a cell culture .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
a cell that is found in almost all tissues containing numerous basophilic granules and capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation .
the main structural component of the liver .
a red blood cell .in mammals ,  mature erythrocytes are biconcave disks containing hemoglobin whose function is to transport oxygen .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a lymphocyte of b lineage that is capable of b cell mediated immunity .
a cell of hematopoietic origin ,  typically resident in particular tissues ,  specialized in the uptake ,  processing ,  and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via t cell activation .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a lymphocyte is a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
an immature erythrocyte that changes the protein composition of its plasma membrane by exosome formation and extrusion .
a cell in vitro that has undergone physical changes as a consequence of a deliberate and specific experimental procedure .
a mature alpha - beta t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd4 coreceptor .
a t cell expressing an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd8 coreceptor .
an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has an irregularly shaped ,  pale - staining nucleus that is partially constricted into two lobes ,  and with cytoplasm that contains coarse ,  bluish - black granules of variable size .
a terminally differentiated ,  post - mitotic ,  antibody secreting cell of the b cell lineage with the phenotype cd138 - positive ,  surface immunonoglobulin - negative ,  and mhc class ii - negative .
a t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor complex .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that is capable of killing target cells in an antigen specific manner with the phenotype perforin - positive and granzyme b - positive .
a mature alpha - beta t cell of a distinct lineage that bears natural killer markers and a t cell receptor specific for a limited set of ligands .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
a cell line cell that is capable of replicating a limited number of times in culture before undergoing senescence .
a cell line cell that is expected to be capable of an unlimited number of divisions ,  and is thus able to support indefinite propagation in vitro as part of an immortal cell line .
a cultured cell population that represents a genetically stable and homogenous population of cultured cells that shares a common propagation history  ( i .e .
a cell line that is expected to be capable of indefinite propagation in an vitro culture .
a cell line is able to support only a limited number of passages in vitro .
soil is an environmental material which is primarily composed of minerals ,  varying proportions of sand ,  silt ,  and clay ,  organic material such as humus ,  gases ,  liquids ,  and a broad range of resident micro -  and macroorganisms .
podzols are soils with a typically ash - grey upper subsurface horizon ,  bleached by loss of organic matter and iron oxides ,  on top of a dark accumulation horizon with brown ,  reddish or black illuviated humus and / or reddish fe compounds .
a portion of environmental material is a fiat object part which forms the medium or part of the medium of an environmental system .
a reference to a place on the earth ,  by its name or by its geographical location .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with the regulatory region composed of the transcription start site and binding sites for the basal transcription machinery .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of rna .
a process in which membrane potential cycles through a depolarizing spike ,  triggered in response to depolarization above some threshold ,  followed by repolarization .
cytolysis of target cells by natural killer cells ,  eosinophils ,  neutrophils ,  monocytes ,  or macrophages following engagement of antibodies bound to the target cells by fc receptors on the effector cells .
an inflammatory response driven by t cell recognition of processed soluble or cell - associated antigens leading to cytokine release and leukocyte activation .
the appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of its own cells or those of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
the directed killing of a target cell by a t cell through the release of granules containing cytotoxic mediators or through the engagement of death receptors .
an immune response mediated by cells expressing specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for an enhanced secondary response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
the appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus contributing to an immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of platelet activating factor following a stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a process that directly activates any of the steps required for tolerance ,  a physiologic state in which the immune system does not react destructively against the components of an organism that harbors it or against antigens that are introduced to it .
a process involving any mechanism for tolerance induction in b cells .
a process involving any mechanism for tolerance induction in t cells .
an inflammatory response to an exogenous environmental antigen or an endogenous antigen initiated by the adaptive immune system .
the synthesis or release of a cytokine following a inflammatory stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an antigen ,  any substance which is capable of inducing a specific immune response and of reacting with the products of that response ,  the specific antibody or specifically sensitized t - lymphocytes ,  or both .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: acetylcholine  +  h2o = choline  +  acetate .
catalysis of the reaction: r - x  +  glutathione = h - x  +  r - s - glutathione .
enables the facilitated diffusion of an ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  by passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucose ,  the aldohexose gluco - hexose .
the cellular metabolic process in which a cell duplicates one or more molecules of dna .
the covalent transfer of a methyl group to either n - 6 of adenine or c - 5 or n - 4 of cytosine .
dynamic structural changes to eukaryotic chromatin occurring throughout the cell division cycle .
a vesicle - mediated transport process that results in the engulfment of external particulate material by phagocytes and their delivery to the lysosome .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
the sequential process in which the multiple coagulation factors of the blood interact ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of an insoluble fibrin clot ;  it may be divided into three stages: stage 1 ,  the formation of intrinsic and extrinsic prothrombin converting principle ;  stage 2 ,  the formation of thrombin ;  stage 3 ,  the formation of stable fibrin polymers .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the process in which a microorganism  ( or other particulate material )  is rendered more susceptible to phagocytosis by coating with an opsonin ,  a blood serum protein such as a complement component or antibody .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
the union of gametes of opposite sexes during the process of sexual reproduction to form a zygote .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
the appearance of vascular endothelial growth factor production due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
an immune response mediated by immunoglobulins ,  whether cell - bound or in solution .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a histone protein .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any ester bond .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
an immunoglobulin complex that is present in the plasma membrane of b cells and that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains and a signaling subunit ,  a heterodimer of the ig - alpha and ig - beta proteins .
the process in which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or lipid )  on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific domain of a protein .
assembly of actin filaments by the addition of actin monomers to a filament .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the myeloid and lymphoid derived organ / tissue systems of the blood and other parts of the body over time ,  from formation to the mature structure .
the appearance of connective tissue growth factor due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of a chemokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of granulocyte macrophage colony - stimulating factor due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of hepatocyte growth factor due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of type i interferon due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interferon - alpha due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interferon - beta due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interferon - gamma due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 1 alpha due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 1 beta due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 1 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 10 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 11 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 12 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 13 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 14 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 15 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 16 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of any member of the interleukin - 17 family of cytokines due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 18 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 19 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 2 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 20 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 21 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 22 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 23 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 24 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 25 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 26 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 27 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 3 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 4 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 5 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 6 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 7 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 8 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 9 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of trail due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of tumor necrosis factor due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of lymphotoxin a due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of transforming growth factor - beta1 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of transforming growth factor - beta2 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of transforming growth factor - beta3 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of dna from deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template and a 3'hydroxyl group .
the appearance of type iii interferon due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 9 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
positive regulation of an adaptive immune response mediated via cytokine production by helper t cell .
positive regulation of a t cell mediated immune response mediated via cytokine production by a helper t cell .
positive regulation of a b cell mediated immune response mediated via cytokine production by a helper t cell .
the appearance of granzyme a due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of a perforin protein due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of granulysin due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 20  ( ccl20 )  due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression ;  the process is mitotically or meiotically heritable ,  or is stably self - propagated in the cytoplasm of a resting cell ,  and does not entail a change in dna sequence .
any heritable epigenetic process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein function by self - perpetuating conformational conversions of normal proteins in healthy cells .
the expansion of a t cell population by cell division .
a protein complex that contains a disulfide - linked heterodimer of t cell receptor  ( tcr )  chains ,  which are members of the immunoglobulin superfamily ,  and mediates antigen recognition ,  ultimately resulting in t cell activation .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
an immunoglobulin complex that is secreted into extracellular space and found in mucosal areas or other tissues or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex that possesses dna polymerase activity and is involved in template directed synthesis of dna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an antigen peptide .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of an mhc alpha chain and ,  in most cases ,  either an mhc class ii beta chain or an invariant beta2 - microglobin chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide ,  lipid ,  or polysaccharide antigen .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
the regulated exocytosis of secretory granules containing preformed mediators such as perforin and granzymes by a cytotoxic t cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with dna of a specific nucleotide composition ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent transfer of a methyl group to either n - 6 of adenine or c - 5 or n - 4 of cytosine .
the appearance of macrophage migration inhibitory factor due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of oncostatin m due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 17  ( ccl17 )  due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a carboxylic ester bond .
a process involved in the controlled movement of a bacterial cell powered by the continuous polymerization of actin at one pole of the cell .
the appearance of any member of the transforming growth factor - beta family of cytokines due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of monocyte chemotactic protein - 1 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 4 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 gamma due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 5 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 1 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of granulocyte colony - stimulating factor due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of ip - 10 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of granzyme b due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of any member of the tnf superfamily due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 22  ( ccl22 )  due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of tumor necrosis factor superfamily member 11  ( tnfsf11 ;  rankl )  due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 17a due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 17f due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
cell killing caused by the membrane attack complex formed following complement activation .
histamine release triggered by the binding of an antigen to an immunoglobulin bound to the cell surface .
the process that gives rise to an immune complex .
the inhibition of an antigen's biological effects by antibody binding to it .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 19  ( ccl19 )  due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 21  ( ccl21 )  due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 12  ( cxcl12 )  due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 13  ( cxcl13 )  due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 16  ( cxcl16 )  due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
increased resistance towards insulin ,  that is ,  diminished effectiveness of insulin in reducing blood glucose levels .
a directive information entity that specifies what should happen if the trigger condition is fulfilled .
a measurement unit label is as a label that is part of a scalar measurement datum and denotes a unit of measure .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a narrative object is an information content entity that is a set of propositions .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take .
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define  the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label
software is a plan specification composed of a series of instructions that can be  \ ninterpreted by or directly executed by a processing unit .
a digital entity is an information entity which is a collection of bits that can be interpreted by a computer .
a report that is published in a journal .
a quality of an information bearer that imparts the information content
a model number is an information content entity specifically borne by catalogs ,  design specifications ,  advertising materials ,  inventory systems and similar  that is about manufactured objects of the same class .
a binary digital entity is a digital entity that is encoded in a way that is not easily human readable and that contains other than text characters .
a unit of measure is the quality of some material entity compared to which another quality is some multiple of .
a language in which source code is written that is intended to be executed / run by a software interpreter .
an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
an information content entity that is a mark ( s )  or character ( s )  used as a conventional representation of another entity .
a symbol that denotes a number .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
a numeral that denotes an integer
a scalar measurement datum is a measurement datum that is composed of two parts ,  numerals and a unit label .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a study interpretation is a textual entity about the implications of a study result .
a dot plot is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where each data point is represented by a single dot placed on coordinates corresponding to data point values in particular dimensions .
a diagram that presents one or more tuples of information by mapping those tuples in to a two dimensional space in a non arbitrary way .
a text based digital entity is a digital entity that is encoded so that it only contains text characters .
a rule is an executable which guides ,  defines ,  restricts actions .
a report figure is a report display element that has some aspect of illustration ,  but may be a composite of figures ,  images ,  and other elements
a plan specification which describes the inputs and output of mathematical functions as well as workflow of execution for achieving an predefined objective .
a software interpreter is a software application that executes some specified input software .
the curation status of the term .
a density plot is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where the tint of a particular pixel corresponds to some kind of function corresponding the the amount of data points relativelly with their distance from the the pixel .
a document assembled by an author for the purpose of providing information for the audience .
a report element is a narrative object in which information is presented and consumed by a human being ,  and is part of a report .
binary executable is a digital entity consisting of the binary representation of machine instructions of a specific processor or they may be binary pseudocode for a virtual machine .
a source code module is a directive information entity that specifies ,  using a programming language ,  some algorithm .
a report table is a report display element consisting of a matrix of cells layed out in a grid ,  some set of which are filled with some information content
a data format specification is the information content borne by the document published defining the specification . \ nexample: the iso document specifying what encompasses an xml document ;  the instructions in a xsd file
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
an image is an affine projection to a two dimensional surface ,  of measurements of some quality of an entity or entities repeated at regular intervals across a spatial range ,  where the measurements are represented as color and luminosity on the projected on surface .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a digital document is a digital entity consisting of an electronic file which can be rendered into human - readable form by one or more computational applications .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
a version number is an information content entity which is a sequence of characters borne by part of each of a class of manufactured products or its packaging and indicates its order within a set of other products having the same name .
a serial number is an information content entity which is a unique sequence of characters borne by part of manufactured product or its packaging that is assigned to each individual in some class of products ,  and so can serve as a way to identify an individual product within the class .
a lot number is an information content entity which is an identical sequence of character borne by part of manufactured product or its packaging for each instances of a product class in a discrete batch of an item .
a settings datum is a datum that denotes some configuration of an instrument .
a textual entity that expresses the results of reasoning about a problem ,  for instance as typically found towards the end of scientific papers .
a material entity in which a concretization of an information content entity inheres .
a histogram is a report graph which is a statistical description of a \ ndistribution in terms of occurrence frequencies of different event classes .
a heatmap is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data \ nwhere the values taken by a variable ( s )  are shown as colors in a \ ntwo - dimensional map .
a venn diagram is a report graph showing all hypothetically possible \ nlogical relations between a finite collection of sets .
a survival curve is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where the percentage of survival is plotted as a function of time .
a dendrogram is a report graph which is a tree diagram \ nfrequently used to illustrate the arrangement of the clusters produced by a \ nclustering algorithm .
a scatterplot is a graph which uses cartesian coordinates to display values for two variables for a set of data .
a photograph is created by projecting an image onto a photosensitive surface such as a chemically treated plate or film ,  ccd receptor ,  etc .
a photographic print is a material entity upon which a photograph generically depends .
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a textual entity is a part of a manifestation  ( frbr sense )  ,  a generically dependent continuant whose concretizations are patterns of glyphs intended to be interpreted as words ,  formulas ,  etc .
a textual entity intended to identify a particular publication .
a textual entity intended to identify a particular author
a textual entity intended to identify a particular institution
a textual entity that describes a figure
a textual entity that names a document
a textual entity that contains a two - dimensional arrangement of texts repeated at regular intervals across a spatial range ,  such that the spatial relationships among the constituent texts expresses propositions
a table where the constituent texts are abbreviations and their expansions
an information content entity consisting of a two dimensional arrangement of information content entities such that the arrangement itself is about something .
a figure that expresses one or more propositions
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
a document that has been accepted by a publisher
a publication that is about an investigation
a document that has been accepted by a patent authority
an information content entity that is part of a document .
a summary of the entire document that is substantially smaller than the document it summarizes .
a part of a publication about an investigation that is about the objective specification  ( why the investigation is being done ) 
a part of a publication about an investigation that is about the study design of the investigation
a part of a publication about an investigation that is about a study design execution
a part of a publication about an investigation that is about the study interpretation of the investigation
a part of a document that has citations as parts
a part of a document that enumerates the authors of the document
a part of a document that has parts that are institution identifications associated with the authors of the document
a part of a publication that is about the specific contributions of each author
part of a publication that is about the contributions of people or institutions other than the authors .
a part of a document that is about a specific other part of the document .
a part of a document that is segregated from the rest of the document due to its size
a table that relates document parts to specific locations in a document  ( usually page numbers )  .
a table that relates figures in a document to specific locations in that document  ( usually page numbers )  .
a shorter version of a document title
a document part that describes  legal restrictions on making or distributing copies of the document
a cartesian spatial coordinate datum is a representation of a point in a spatial region ,  in which equal changes in the magnitude of a coordinate value denote length qualities with the same magnitude
a cartesion spatial coordinate datum that  uses one value to specify a position along a one dimensional spatial region
a cartesion spatial coordinate datum that  uses two values to specify a position within a two dimensional spatial region
a cartesion spatial coordinate datum that  uses three values to specify a position within a three dimensional spatial region
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measurement of length quality
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measurement of mass quality
a textual entity that expresses an assertion that is intended to be tested .
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measuring a temporal interval
a textual entity that is used as directive to deliver something to a person ,  or organization
a role inhering in a person or organization that is realized when the bearer participates in the work which is the basis of the document ,  in the writing of the document ,  and signs it with their name .
a planned process in which journal articles are read or processed and data items are extracted ,  typically for further analysis or indexing
a planned process in which a document is created or added to by including the specified input in it .
a line graph is a type of graph created by connecting a series of data \ npoints together with a line .
a planned process in which a new crid is created ,  associated with an entity ,  and stored in the crid registry thereby registering it as being associated with some entity
a planned process in which a crid registry associates an information content entity with a crid symbol
a planned process with the objective to establish a system that allows to refer to specific entities of a certain kind and store information about them ,  by establishing a crid registry and plan specifications for the process of 1 )  assigning a crid and 2 )  looking up a crid .
a symbol that is part of a crid and that is sufficient to look up a record from the crid's registry .
an information content entity that consists of a crid symbol and additional information about the crid registry to which it belongs .
a crid registry is a dataset of crid records ,  each consisting of a crid symbol and additional information which was recorded in the dataset through a assigning a centrally registered identifier process .
a planned process in which a request to a crid registry is made to return the information associated with a crid symbol
a data set that is an aggregate of data recording some measurement at a number of time points .
a textual entity that denotes a particular in reality .
a software method  ( also called subroutine ,  subprogram ,  procedure ,  method ,  function ,  or routine )  is software designed to execute a specific task .
a software module is software composed of a collection of software methods .
a software library is software composed of a collection of software modules and / or software methods in a form that can be statically or dynamically linked to some software application .
a software application is software that can be directly executed by some processing unit .
a software script is software whose instructions can be executed using a software interpreter .
a textual entity listing abbreviations and their expansions that are used in a document .
a part of a document where abbreviations and their long - forms used within the document are listed .
a part of a document about the authors that provides biographical information and may discuss how the authors' professional experiences are relevant to the work described in the document .
a textual entity expression information about an author of a document .
a part of a document ,  distinct from the abstract ,  that describes the significance and broader context of the document content .
a textual entity ,  distinct from the abstract ,  that describes the significance and broader context of the document content .
a part of a document about a resource described in the document ,  e .g .
a textual entity expressing the location of a resource ,  e .g .
a part of a document about the medical history of a specific patient as it relates to the topic of the document .
a textual entity that expresses a detailed account of a portion of the medical history for a specific patient .
a part of a document used to summarize the findings discussed in the document .
a part of a document used to declare any competing interests regarding the authors and / or funding organization for the work described in the document .
a textual entity that expresses a situation involving one or more of the authors ,  or the funding source of a document whereby the authors or funding source stand to potentially gain  ( typically financially )  from the results reported in the document .
a part of a document about the consent process that was used to enroll patients in a study .
a textual entity that documents the consenting process used to enroll patients in a study .
a part of a document about the governance body responsible for approving the work discussed in a document on an ethical basis .
a textual entity that documents the ethical approval of some study design .
a part of a document that contains one or more figures .
a part of a document used to detail information regarding the source of funding used in support of the generation of the document content .
a textual entity documenting the source of funding that supported some study .
a part of a document detailing extensions of the described work that may be implemented at some future point in time .
a textual entity expressing ideas regarding future work relevant to work described in a document that could be done .
a document part announcing the publication of a novel draft genome sequence .
a textual entity that describes the generation and public release of a novel ,  draft genome sequence .
a textual entity listing keywords indicating the major theme ( s )  of a document .
a part of a document where keywords selected by the author to categorize the major theme ( s )  of a document are listed .
a part of a document about biases or short comings related to the study design and execution .
a textual entity addressing a shortcoming or bias of a study design or execution .
a part of a document about the materials required to reproduce the content of the document .
a part of a document containing typically short notes about the document itself and / or the authors .
a part of a document about the patients that participated in a study .
a textual entity expressing information regarding the patients used in a study .
a part of the document about the publication history of a document .
a textual entity that expresses the pre - publication history  ( submission dates ,  reviewer comments ,  etc )  for a document ,  often including a hyperlink to a web page detailing the information .
a part of a document about work in other publications that is relevant to the content of the document .
a textual entity that discusses work from other publications and expresses their relevancy to the content of a document .
a part of a document about a resource described in the document ,  e .g .
a textual entity that expresses the requirements necessary to use a resource ,  e .g .
a textual entity documenting statistical analysis tools and techniques employed .
a part of the document used to describe the statistical methodologies employed in the work presented in the document .
a part of a document that contains one or more tables .
an identifier that denotes some postal delivery route ,  some aggregate of postal delivery routes or a geographical region and was created for the purpose of sorting and delivering mail .
a plan specification that if realized ,  is realized by the delivery of mail to some facility or mailbox within some geographical region .
a postal code that is used in the united states for the purpose of sorting and delivering mail ,  and that denotes some postal delivery route or some aggregate of postal delivery routes .
a planned process which takes as input a database and fills another database by extracting concretizations of information entities from the first ,  transforming them ,  and loading the transformed concretizations into the second .
an identifier is an information content entity that is the outcome of a dubbing process and is used to refer to one instance of entity shared by a group of people to refer to that individual entity .
an ontology module that comprises only of asserted axioms local to the ontology ,  excludes import directives ,  and excludes axioms or declarations from external ontologies .
an ontology module that is intended to be directly edited ,  typically managed in source control ,  and typically not intended for direct consumption by end - users .
an ontology module that is intended to be the primary release product and the one consumed by the majority of tools .
an ontology module that consists entirely of axioms that connect or bridge two distinct ontology modules .
a subset ontology module that is intended to be imported from another ontology .
an ontology module that is extracted from a main ontology module and includes only a subset of entities or axioms .
a subset ontology that is intended as a whitelist for curators using the ontology .
an ontology module that is intended for usage in analysis or discovery applications .
a subset ontology that is largely comprised of a single layer or strata in an ontology class hierarchy .
a subset of an ontology that is intended to be excluded for some purpose .
an imported ontology module that is derived from an external ontology .
a subset ontology that is crafted to either include or exclude a taxonomic grouping of species .
an ontology module that contains axioms generated by a reasoner .
an ontology module that is automatically generated ,  for example via a sparql query or via template and a csv .
an ontology module that is automatically generated from a template specification and fillers for slots in that template .
a subset ontology that is designed for basic applications to continue to make certain simplifying assumptions ;  many of these simplifying assumptions were based on the initial version of the gene ontology ,  and have become enshrined in many popular and useful tools such as term enrichment tools . \ n \ nexamples of such assumptions include: traversing the ontology graph ignoring relationship types using a naive algorithm will not lead to cycles  ( i .e .
a disposition to initiate processes that result in a disorder .
a material entity with a pathogenic disposition .
a part of an extended organism that itself has as part a population of one or more infectious agents and that  ( 1 )  exists as a result of processes initiated by members of the infectious agent population and is  ( 2 )  clinically abnormal in virtue of the presence of this infectious agent population ,  or  ( 3 )  has a disposition to bring clinical abnormality to immunocompetent organisms of the same species as the host  ( the organism corresponding to the extended organism )  through transmission of a member or offspring of a member of the infectious agent population .
a disposition to initiate processes that result in a disorder in a human organism .
the role of a human being that is realized by enforcing regulations to ensure consumer safety
a measurement datum that represents the output of a scanner measuring the intensity value for each fluorescent reporter .
a process that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a regulatory role involved with making and / or enforcing relevant legislation and governmental orders
biological_feature_identification_objective is an objective role carried out by the proposition defining the aim of a study designed to examine or characterize a particular biological feature .
regulation - assigned role is a regulatory role defined by legislation or governmental orders
a role which inheres in material entities and is realized in the processes of making ,  enforcing or being defined by legislation or orders issued by a governmental body .
a role realized through the process of supplying materials such as animal subjects ,  reagents or other materials used in an investigation .
a worker role of carrying out the study according to the protocol document or study plan delivered by the pi ,  under the control of the study director .
a list - mode data file is a binary digital entity where events are stored sequentially ,  parameter by parameter .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class prediction data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned class labels .
a role inhering in a material entity that is realized when  characteristics or responses elicited by the substance are used for comparison or reference .
a dye role that is realized when the stain is used to colour cells and or cellular components for the purposes of visualization
pellet role is a role which inheres in a material entity and is realized by a material separation process using gravitational force generated by a centrifuge in which the material bearing the pellet role is the heavier or heaviest component of the output material . .
a worker role comprised of handling the administrative duties of a trial or study .
supernatant role is a role which inheres in a material entity and is realized by a material separation process using gravitational force in which the material bearing the supernatant role is the liquid component of the output material .
chromatography column in chemistry is a tube and contents  ( typically glass )  used to purify individual chemical compounds from mixtures of compounds .
a role borne by a molecular entity and is realized in a process of absorption by an organism  alters ,  or effects   ( or is assumed to effect )  a function ( s )  which inhere in an organism
a pump valve switch is a cardinal part of a liquid chromatography instrument that controls the flow .
is the transplantation of living cells ,  tissues or  \  \ norgans from one species to another such as from pigs to humans
a physical document is an object serving as a record of information by means of symbolic marks .
not actively doing anything to a material for a duration of time .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a device that facilitates the separation of mixtures .
a mass spectrometer is an instrument which is used to measure the mass to charge ratio of ions .
a platform is an object_aggregate that is the set of instruments and software needed to perform a process .
a liquid chromatography mass spectrometry platform is a platform that is the collection of instrument ,  software and reagents needed to perform a liquid chromatography mass spectrometry protocol .
a microarray platform is a platform that contains the instruments ,  software and reagents needed to perform a microarray protocol .
a measurement datum measuring the amount of light collected s compared to the total amount of emitted light in the detector component of a flow cytometer instrument .
software_optimization is a software_testing_objective role describing a study designed to identify the best software or parameters of the software .
notified body is regulator of consumables and medical devices charged by the competent authority with verifying compliance of medical devices  ( not drugs )  with the applicable essential requirements stated in the medical device directive
is the transplantation of organs between members of the same species .
a processed material which measures gamma radiation
a responsible party involved in planning ,  overseeing the conduct of a study or study component ,  and interpreting data from a study
a reference role in which the characteristics or responses elicited by the substance playing the reference substance role are used to establish a  \ "100% \ " response
triton x100 is a chemical entity which belongs to the group of the pluronics which are triblock copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide .
a planned process that consists of parts: planning ,  study design execution ,  documentation and which produce conclusion ( s )  .
a role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in an assay in which data is generated about the bearer of the evaluant role
a study personnel role played by a party who reports the outcome of a study component
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a data item which is used to indicate the degree of uncertainty about a measurement .
a sample_preparation_for_assay is a protocol_application including material_enrollments and biomaterial_transformations .
diagnosis is an assessment of a disease or injury ,  its likely prognosis and treatment .
a process which is external in origin to the investigation that has an impact on the outcome .
an emedical record is a digital document derived from a computer system used primarily for patient care in a clinical setting .
a processed material that provides the needed nourishment for microorganisms or cells grown in vitro .
an electronic case report tabulation is a digital document containing tabular data about multiple trial participants which is part of a clinical regulatory submission .
a polystyrene tube is a test tube made of polystyrene
a role inhering in a biological or chemical entity that is intended to be applied in a scientific technique to participate  ( or have molecular components that participate )  in a chemical reaction that facilitates the generation of data about some entity distinct from the bearer ,  or the generation of some specified material output distinct from the bearer .
a regulator involved with making and enforcing legislation and governmental orders relevant to chemical manufacture
a role which inheres in a molecular entity and is realized by the process of recording or registering a stimulus .
a role of which inheres in a homo sapiens and realized during administration and oversight of the daily activities of institutional review boards  ( irbs )  in the usa
a role which inheres in a person and is realized by the process of being under the care of a physician or health care provider
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
protocol_testing_objective is a methodology_testing_objective role describing a study designed to examine the effects of using different protocols .
a role that is realized through the execution of a study design in which the bearer of the role participates and in which data about that bearer is collected .
first subject treated role is a study subject role borne by the subject realized in the application of the process specified in intervention study design with no previous study subject realizing the role prior in the study
a measurement datum that is the outcome of the quantification of an assay for the activity of a gene ,  or the number of rna transcripts .
a study personnel role played by a party who is accountable for the execution of a study component and can make decisions about the conduct of the study
a responsible party role played by a person responsible for the overall conduct of a study
a protocol application to replace an organ or tissue of an organism
a biological vector role is a material to be added role that is realized by the process of transmitting material to the organism that is the target of the transmission .
the role of a dye that is realized when the dye is used in an experiment to measure the ph in a material entity
a role borne by a material entity that is gained during a specimen collection process and that can be realized by use of the specimen in an investigation
sequence_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize molecular features exhibited at the level of a macromolecular sequence ,  e .g .
an intervention design is a study design in which a controlled process applied to the subjects  ( the intervention )  serves as the independent variable manipulated by the experimentalist .
a personnel role played by a party who executes a component of the study plan ;  this can occur before ,  during ,  after or outside the study timeline
an assay where the output data is a datum with one of two values denoting success and failure .
a data set of the names or identifiers of genes that are the outcome of an analysis or have been put together for the purpose of an analysis .
a measurement datum measuring the number of subjects in a defined subset in a flow cytometer instrument .
a measurement datum measuring the number of analysis events lost due to errors in data acquisition electronic coincidence in a flow cytometer instrument .
a reference substance role that is realized when characteristics or responses elicited by the bearer are used to ensure an instrument is within protocol specification of accuracy or performance
molecular_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize molecular features of a biological system ,  e .g .
hardware_testing_objective is a methodology_testing_objective role describing a study designed to examine the effects of using different hardware ,  e .g .
a device in which environmental conditions  ( light ,  photoperiod ,  temperature ,  humidity ,  etc . ) 
label role is a role which inheres in a material entity and which is realized in a detection of label assay
a reference participant role which is realized by making the reference to qualities at the start of the study or intervention
a trial monitor role charged recommending whether to continue ,  modify ,  or end the trial
a worker role of being responsible for making the histopathology diagnoses associated with data from a study ;  this activity occurs outside the study timeline
a device that is designed for collecting 90% of the supernatant in a microplate well and separating the living cell with no stress ,  eliminating centrifugation and other similar techniques .
a device manufacture with the intent to provide a porous unsized paper used for filtering .
a material combination in which cell cultures of two or more different types are are combined and allowed to culture as one .
the role of a organization that is realized by members reviewing study designs for their agreement with regulations
an esource document is a digital document consisting of a logical collection of source data and other esource documents that can be presented in an ordered way and capture the time of completion ,  change ,  and any signatures
a role realized when a participant serves as reference to itself
a nutrient role that inheres in a material entity and is realized in the use of that material entity by an organism to provide all needed nourishment .
a molecular label role which inheres in a material entity which is realized by the process of radioactivity detection
mixed population of cdnas  ( complementarydna )  made from mrna from a defined source ,  usually a specific cell type .
an electronic case report form is a digital document used to record all of the protocol required information to be reported for each trial subject .
a negative reference substance is a reference role in which the substance playing the reference substance role is physically similar in appearance to the test substance
is the transplantation of tissue from one part of  \  \ nthe body to another in the same individual .  ) 
a measurement datum measuring the minimal signal that must be detected to generate an electrical event ,  as compared to the maximal detected signal in a flow cytometer instrument .
a study population role where the bearer is a population of material entities and the role is realized in the implementation of a study design wherein the entities bearing the study population role are observed or subjected to intervention according to the study design and are biological replicates ,  i .e .
a quantitative confidence value that represents the probability of obtaining a result at least as extreme as that actually obtained ,  assuming that the actual value was the result of chance alone .
a population is a collection of individuals from the same taxonomic class living ,  counted or sampled at a particular site or in a particular area
a 3d structure determination assay that uses magnetic properties of atomic nuclei to determine the 3d structure and dynamics of molecules in the input sample .
an assay that produces a picture of an entity .
protocol_optimization is a protocol_testing_objective role describing a study designed to identify the best protocol .
a worker role comprised of providing a confirmed and consensus diagnosis for histopathology results obtained during the investigation
a microtiter_plate is a flat plate with multiple wells used as small test tubes .
a role which inheres in a homo sapiens and is realized during a clinical trial  -  the impartial witness is independent of the trial and cannot be unfairly influenced by people involved with the trial
an immunoprecipitation in which chromatin  ( i .e .
a reference participant role realized by equivalent treatment of participants
an assay that measures the amount of radiation in the radioactive spectrum  ( alpha ,  beta or gamma rays )  emitted from an input material .
a role borne by an entity and that is realized in a process that is part of an investigation in which an objective is achieved .
a role that inheres in a material entity and is realized in the use of that material entity by an organism when it is used in that organism's metabolism and provides nourishment .
dropout is a study subject role borne by an entity realized by a process of leaving the study earlier than the protocol specified and where the bearer of the dropout role had been borne study subject role prior to bearing dropout role .
a worker role of providing medical care either within or outside the study timeline
methodology_testing_objective is an objective role carried out by a proposition defining the aim of the study is to examine the effect of using different methodologies .
a digital entity intended to capture data in analytical cytology domain .
proxy respondent is a worker role of describing patient's symptoms or condition to medical personnel
a fluorescence compensation matrix is a square matrix which is used as the left multiplier of the vector of fluorescence values while performing digital fluorescence compensation .
a reference role in which the characteristics or responses elicited by the substance playing the reference substance role are used to establish a  \ "no effect \ " response
a role which inheres in a human or organization who are able subject to applicable law to consent ,  on behalf of a prospective subject ,  to the subject`s participation in as clinical trial .
an investigation report is a report on the results of an investigation .
cellular_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize a biological feature monitored at the cellular level ,  e .g .
a reference subject  role which inheres in an organism or entity of organismal origin so that the characteristics or responses of the participant playing the reference participant role are used for comparison or reference
a dye role that is realized when used to detect live cells in an experiment
is a role which inheres in a material entity which is manufactured to be similar in appearance to a test material entity in e .g .
a worker role authorized to make study - related decisions and carry out tasks related to the study ;  this role occurs during the study timeline
a documenting process to encode an information entity into a digital document
a material processing that digests the fraction of input material that is susceptible to that enzyme
hardware_optimization is a hardware_testing_objective describing a study designed to identify the best hardware .
place holder class ,  utility class to gather the defined classes
a worker role that analyzes data obtained during a trial or study ;  this role occurs after the trial or study is completed or terminated .
a quantitative confidence value which is the standard deviations of the sample in a frequency distribution ,  obtained by dividing the standard deviation by the total number of cases in the frequency distribution .
antigen is a role played by material which when introduced into an immune - competent organism causes an immune response
software_testing_objective is a hardware_optimization role describing a study designed to examine the effects of using different software or software parameters ,  e .g .
a responsible party role involved with any of the following activities:  initiating ,  managing and funding a study
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
a role that inheres in a material entity and is realized in the use of that material entity by lab animal to provide all needed nourishment .
technical replicate role is realized when two portions from one evaluant are used in replicate runs of an assay
a molecular label role which inheres in a material entity and which is realized in the process of detecting a molecular dye that imparts color to some material of interest .
a data set which is a subset of data that are a similar to each other in some way .
a cohort role is a biological replicate role played by a group of study participants who share a common characteristic of interest to the study .
is a material transformation in which strands of nucleic acids that are  ( somewhat )  complementary form a double - stranded molecule .
a dna extraction is a nucleic acid extraction where the desired output material is dna .
a plan is a realizable entity that is the inheres in a bearer who is committed to realizing it as a planned process .
a sample population is an object aggregate that is selected from the population ,  e .g .
organism_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize a biological feature monitored at the level of the organism ,  e .g .
a measurement datum recording the number of measurement events lost due to overloading of the analysis chip in a flow cytometer instrument .
a plan specification which has sufficient level of detail and quantitative information to communicate it between investigation agents ,  so that different investigation agents will reliably be able to independently reproduce the process .
a regulator involved with making and enforcing legislation and governmental orders relevant to the development ,  testing ,  manufacture and use of food ,  drugs and medical devices
is a process with the objective to place a material entity bearing the 'material to be added role' into a material bearing the 'target of material addition role' .
a measurand role borne by a molecular entity or an atom and realized in an analyte assay which achieves the objective to measure the magnitude / concentration / amount of the analyte in the entity bearing evaluant role .
a part of an occurrence of a disease process which is associated with position in the normal progression of the disease
is the injection of a material entity  ( bearing the administered substance role )  into the peritoneum  ( bearing the target role )  of an organism using a syringe
a precipitate is a material entity which is output of a precipitation process
an assay that determines interactions between proteins ,  such as protein - protein binding .
an assay tthat determines dna regions specifically recognized by proteins that function as transcription factors
enrollment is a process of identifying a set of objects for further use in an investigation based on a set of criteria or rules
revisit?
a eluate is a material entity which results from an elution ,  e .g .
material to be added role is a protocol participant role realized by a material which is added into a material bearing the target of material addition role in a material addition process
is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity
a planned process in which data gathered in an investigation is evaluated in the context of existing knowledge with the objective to generate more general conclusions or to conclude that the data does not allow one to draw general conclusion
a process of creating or modifying a plan specification
histological sample preparation is the preparation of an input tissue via slicing and labeling to make tissue microstructure of interest visible in a future histology assay
a interpreting data that is used to ascribe properties or relations to types based on an observation instance  ( i .e . ,  on a number of observations or experiences )  ;  or to formulate laws based on limited observations of recurring phenomenal patterns .
a mass analyzer is a device that separates ions according to their mass - to - charge ratio .
is an investigation with the goal to test one or more hypothesis
is an investigation in which data is generated and analyzed with the purpose of generating new hypothesis
an ion source is a device that is part of a mass spectrometer that ionizes the material under analysis .
an ion detector is a device that measures and records the charge induced or current produced when an ion passes by or hits a surface .
an assay that detects and identifies chemical entities resulting from biochemical and cellular metabolism
a light emission function is an excitation function to excite a material to a specific excitation state that it emits light .
a record function is a function that registers or collects information in a particular format on a particular recording medium .
a magnify function is a function to increase the size of a transmitted object image through the precise arrangement of energy diffraction elements along an imaging path .
a contain function is a function to constrain a material entities location in space
a heat function is a function that increases the internal kinetic energy of a material
a material separation function is a function that increases the resolution between two or more material entities .
a physical process of converting an atom or molecule into an ion by adding or removing charged particles such as electrons or other ions .
a excitation function is a function  to inject energy by bombarding a material with energetic particles  ( e .g . ,  photons )  thereby imbuing internal material components such as electrons with additional energy .
a freeze function is a function to decrease the internal kinetic energy of a material below the freezing point of that type of material .
a synthesizing function is a function to assemble new output materials from distinct input materials .
a perturb function is a function that disrupts the normal function of a system induced through either internal or external means .
a filter function is a function to prevent the flow of certain entities based on a quality or qualities of the entity while allowing entities which have different qualities to pass through
a mechanical function is a function that is realised via mechanical work  ( through an certain amount of energy transferred by some force )  .
a gas filter function is a filter function which prevents the flow of solid objects ,  defined by specific qualities ,  in a gas - solid mixture
a liquid filter function is a filter function which prevents the flow of solid objects ,  defined by specific qualities ,  in a liquid - solid mixture
a transfer function is a function to displace a material from one location to another .
an electricity supply function is an energy supply function to transfer electricity from one source to another ,  typically a consumer of the electricity or as a stimulus during a neuroscience experiment .
an ionization function is a function to physically convert an atom or molecule into an ion by adding or removing charged particles such as electrons or other ions .
a cool function is a function to decrease the internal kinetic energy of a material below the initial kinetic energy of that type of material .
a connection function is a function to couple two or more flow channels so that material or signals can be transported from one set of channels to another .
an isoelectric focusing device is a device in which isoelectric focusing can be performed .
a thermostatic circulator is a device which cools or heats a circulating liquid .
an energy supply function is a function to supply or transfer energy from an energy source to a consumer of the energy
an information processor function is a function that converts information from one form to another ,  by a lossless process or an extraction process .
a signal conversion function is an information processor function which transforms a signal into another type of signal .
a blot module is a device which has the function to conatin and facilitate the material transfer process blotting to be realised
a signal amplification function is a signal conversion function to inject energy into an input signal so as to produce an output signal with increased differential magnitude while also seeking to minimize increases in the signal to noise ratio .
an image acquisition function is a function to acquire an image of a material
an image creation device is a device which captures a digitized image of an object
a solid support function is a function of a device on which an entity is kept in a defined position and prevented in its movement
a display function is a function to present information by translating that information through some lookup process into visual form .
an environmental control function is a function that regulates a contained environment within specified parameter ranges .
a sort function is a function to distinguish material components based on some associated physical quality or entity and to partition the separate components into distinct fractions according to a defined order .
a gel dryer is a device which has the function to contain and to control the contained environment to facilitate the drying of gels
a complementary nucleotide probe role which inheres in nucleic acid molecular entity and is realized by the use of the entity bearing the role to initiate chain elongation .
is double stranded dna that is the specified output of a polymerase chain reaction
the extraction of rna from an input material that specifically isolates viral rna
a reference substance role which inheres in nucleic acid material entity and is realized in the process of using the nucleic acid bearing the template role as a reference during synthesis of a reverse copy .
a plasmid in which extraneous dna has been inserted .
a material to be added role played by a small ,  self - replicating dna or rna molecule  -  usually a plasmid or chromosome  -  and realized in a process whereby foreign dna or rna is inserted into the vector during the process of cloning .
a process with the objective to obtain a cell culture in which all cells are in the same stage of the cell cycle
pcr is the process in which a dna polymerase is used to amplify a piece of dna by in vitro enzymatic replication .
cloning insert role is a role which inheres in dna or rna and is realized by the process of being inserted into a cloning vector in a cloning process .
an assay that determines the concentration of glucose molecules in a blood serum sample
enzyme and has_function some go:0003964  ( rna - directed dna polymerase \ nactivity ) 
a material entity that has undergone a process of digestion with trypsin
a processed material which is used to introduce or draw fluids from a material entity .
an extract is a material entity which results from an extraction process
an assay that determines gene expression and transcription activity using ribonucleic acids collected from a material entity .
an averaging objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to perform mean calculations on the input of the data transformation .
injection is process which aims at introducing a compound or a mixture into a material entity  ( either biological entity or instrument )  by relying on devices such as syringe or injector connection ,  attached or forced into a vascular system  ( veins of an organism or tubes of a machine )  or in a tissue .
 ( protein or rna )  or has_part  ( protein or rna )  and \ nhas_function some go:0003824  ( catalytic activity ) 
the administration of a substance into the peritoneum of an organism
plasmid = dna and has_quality circular and has_function \ n ( is_realized_as some gene expression )  go:0010467
a process in which an input substance is injected into a organ section .
a material entity resulting from the polymerization of acrylamide with temed in some buffer solution
an assay with the objective to determine a sequence feature of dna
is the specification of an objective to add a material into a target material .
an assay which generates data about a genotype from a specimen of genomic dna .
a needle is a sharp ,  hollow device used to penetrate tissue or soft material .
an assay objective to determine the presence or concentration of an analyte in the evaluant
an assay that measures changes  ( expansion ,  amplification ,  deletion ,  mutation )  in the sequence of a dna molecule .
a material entity resulting from the polymerization of agarose after heating agarose suspended in some buffer solution
an objective specification to determine a specified type of information about an evaluated entity  ( the material entity bearing evaluant role ) 
the heart is a muscular organ found in all vertebrates that is responsible for pumping blood throughout the blood vessels by repeated ,  rhythmic contractions
an assay with the objective to capture information about the presence ,  concentration ,  or amount of an analyte in an evaluant .
target of material addition role is a role realized by an entity into which a material is added in a material addition process
an assay that determines the mass of an evaluant
a process by which the identity  ( what a thing is )  of a material entity is established within a certain confidence interval
an electrophysiology recording assay where the recording location of the electrode is intracellular
a packed column is a chromatography column where the particles of the solid stationary phase or the support coated with a liquid stationary phase may fill the whole inside volume of the tube .
this is only a placeholder for defined classes ,  as are its siblings _defined_material and _defined protocol application . \ nits children should be defined classes constructed as output of a process .
a regulatory agency is a organization that has responsibility over or for  the legislation  ( acts and regulations )  for a given sector of the government .
a data set that is produced as the output of a normalization data transformation .
measure function is a function that is borne by a processed material  and realized in a process in which information about some entity is expressed relative to some reference .
an electrophysiology recording assay where the recording location of the electrode is extracellular
process data function is a function that is borne by in a material entity by virtue of its structure .
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
manufacturing is a process with the intent to produce a processed material which will have a function for future use .
is the objective to manufacture a material of a certain function  ( device ) 
there is a wide range of detectors available for both gc and lc each having their own particular areas of application .
a bruker autosampler is an autosampler made by bruker .
an organic acid column is a chromatography column which enables  ( reversed - phase )  separation of hydrophilic aliphatic and aromatic organic acids with uv detection .
the most commonly used detector in preparative gc is the thermal conductivity detector  ( hot wire detector )  .
an actively - shielded superconducting magnet from bruker that combines bruker biospin's advanced ,  proprietary ultrashield active shielding and ultrastabilized sub - cooling technologies .
a protein column is a chromatography column used for the separation of complex protein mixtures .
a liquid chromatography device that mixes different solvents ,  e .g .
an assay that identifies the amount and type of material entities present in a sample by fragmenting the sample and measuring the mass - to - charge ratio of the resulting particles .
a planned process that carries out a study design
the nmr case is an economical nmr sample changer for laboratories with modest automation needs .
a pump system optimized for nano flow chromatography .
nmr tubes are often used once and discarded ,  creating needless waste .
the traditional hardware system that allows a human to inject a sample into an inlet by hand ,  using a syringe .
an older varian broadband nmr spectrometer .
a device that connects two or more columns together in a functional way with leak - tight connection ,  low dead volume ,  low thermal mass and high inertness .
an nmr probe that is designed to hold a solid sample .
bruker biospin's experienced research & development group not only delivers top - performance probes for the more common experiments ,  but also a wealth of special probes for almost any application .
a chromatography detector is a device that locates in the dimensions of space and time ,  the positions of the components of a mixture that has been subjected to a chromatographic process and thus permits the senses to appreciate the nature of the separation .
a normal phase column is a chromatography column in which the stationary phase is more polar than the mobile phase .
the apollo is a compact ,  modular ,  multiple - dsp ,  windows xp professional - based console that can be equipped with up to 8 dds - based rf transmitter channels configurable from 2 khz to 3 .5 ghz .
an nmr sample holder is the part of an nmr instrument ,  which carries the nmr probe , sample tube and the nmr sample .
any instrument that is used to carry out a chromatography experiment .
continuous wave nmr spectrometers are similar to optical spectrometers ,  but the sample is held in a strong magnetic field ,  where the frequency of the source is slowly scanned  ( in some instruments ,  the source frequency is held constant ,  and the field is scanned )  .
in fourier transformation nmr ,  all frequencies in a spectrum are irradiated simultaneously with a radio frequency pulse .
the nitrogen phosphorus detector  ( npd )   ( sometimes called the thermionic detector )  is a very sensitive ,  specific detector the design of which ,  is based on the fid .
a cation exchange column is a chromatography column that is used in cation exchange chromatography .
an nmr probe designed to allow the direct detection of acquisition nuclei .
the bruker automatic sample changer  ( b - acs 60 / 120 )  ,  used in conjunction with bruker disnmr ,  uxnmr or xwin - nmr software ,  provides dialog - guided facilities which allow the user to easily and effectively perform automatic  ( continuous )  experiments .
a rapid resolution column is a chromatography column as marketed by agilent ,  which is used with a rapid resolution cartridge to ensure a fast chromatography process with good separation resolution .
designed to perform capillary lc with injection of sample volumes ranging from nl to l .
a degassing system used for degassing solvents in liquid chromatography .
a capillary column is a thin tube with a small inner diameter ,  usually around 0 .5 mm .
the column inlet  ( or injector )  provides the means to introduce a sample into a continuous flow of carrier gas .
an automatic cleaning system for nmr tubes that removes previous probe and sample residues in order to allow for tube recycling .
a component of an nmr instrument that controls the activities of the other components .
a dual loop autosampler is an autosampler that is designed for handling both analytical  ( 10 ml / min flow rate )  to preparative scale sample purification  ( 100 ml / min flow rate )  .
a chromatography detector ,  that can detect signals within a certain range at user - defined wavelengths .
the lc - nmr / ms setup was first introduced by bruker biospin in 1999 .
an automated chromatography system that injects the sample into the chromatography columns in order to increase speed and minimize human involvement in the purification process for  better reproducibility .
a chromatography detector ,  that can detect many discrete wavelengths in parallel and produces a multiple wavelength chromatographic profile .
the selective determination of aromatic hydrocarbons or organo - heteroatom species is the job of the photoionization detector  ( pid )  .
an instrument that generates gases for use with the gas chromatograph .
a column jacket is a piece of column chromatography equipment that covers a column in order to ensure thermoisolation and create a controllable thermostatic microenvironment .
the electron capture detector is a gc detector that uses a radioactive beta emitter  ( electrons )  to ionize some of the carrier gas and produce a current between a biased pair of electrodes .
a reversed phase column is a chromatography column in which the mobile phase is more polar than the stationary phase .
a lubricant used in liquid chromatography that eases sample injector penetration .
a process in which a population of cells with certain characteristics is isolated from a larger population
the discovery console is a windows xp professional - based ,  integrated console designed especially for solid - state nmr .
a series of older bruker nmr magnets ,  now out of production .
a chromatofocusing column is a chromatography column in which a resin is equilibrated at one ph and eluted at a second ph .
part of an nmr instrument that detects the signals emitted from a sample .
a magnet which induces a certain frequency  ( mhz )  and which has a certain bore diameter .n  alt the nmr signal is a natural physical property of the certain atomic nuclei but it can only be detected with an external magnetic field .
a trap column is a chromatography column which is used prior to a ,  e .g .
an nmr probe that allows the automatized flow - through of a sample .
an analyte assay which uses analytical methods to produce measurements and data on the concentration of chemical parameters  ( analytes )  present in a bodily fluid collected from an organism .
a flame ionization detector is a gc detector that consist of a hydrogen / air flame and a collector plate which are normally heated independently of the chromatographic oven .
a vial is a cylindrical container often made from glass tubing .
a rotor device that holds the nmr sample and enables the adjustment of the orientation of the rotation axis for a sample in a nmr instrument in the magic angle .
a varian nmr spectrometer .
injected sample enters column immediately  ( while split valve to split vent is closed )  .
for preparative lc with injection of sample volumes ranging from l to ml ranges .
hyphenated analytical techniques combining mass spectrometry and chromatography are well - established laboratory tools .
a sample valve that must be able to sustain pressures up to 10 , 000 p .s .i . ,  although it is most likely to operate on a continuous basis ,  at pressures of 3 , 000 p .s .i .
an nmr probe that is manufactured by jeol .
an nmr magnet of which brukers claims it is the latest and most advanced self - shielding nmr magnet technology ever developed .
the bruker biospin cryoprobe is a high - performance cryogenically cooled probe developed for high - resolution applications .
a device that binds the chromatography column and additional connector elements and  /  or valves or syringes into one physical unity for further processing .
an affinity column is a chromatography column that is used in affinity chromatography .
an nmr instrument that is manufactured by tecmag .
a gel filtration column is a chromatography column for size - exclusion chromatography ,  in which the stationary phase is a gel .
a fraction detector is a device that allows regular or specified samples to be taken from a column eluate and stored in a retrievable form .
an assay that determines lost or amplified genomic regions of dna by comparing genomic dna originating from tissues from the same or different individuals using specific techniques such as cgh ,  array cgh ,  snp genotyping
a solvent filter that sits between the pump and the injection valve that prevents dust particles ,  general debris and ,  to some extent ,  bacteria from entering the chromatography system .
an nmr probe that is designed for generating pictures from sample states via nmr imaging .
a material separation process in which cells that stick to the container in which they are grown as a cell culture are separated from those in the liquid component of the culture .
a series of older bruker nmr magnets ,  now out of production .
any device used in a gas chromatography experiment .
a small membrane filter of defined pore size ,  that filters samples from a syringe .
this instrument system automatically prepares an nmr sample ,  inserts it into an nmr magnet ,  performs nmr experiments on the sample ,  and transports it back to the preparation system .
for chromatography analyses ,  the ability to maintain a stable column environment regardless of ambient temperature fluctuations is critical for maintaining retention time precision .
a pump system optimized for capillary chromatography .
the evaporative light scattering detector ,  as its name implies ,  utilizes a spray that continuously atomizes the column eluent into small droplets .
a process in which cells with a single nucleus are isolated from a blood sample
a chromatography device where the column cartridge is inserted into and stabilised .
a gas generator that generates nitrogen gas .
the needle assembly attached to the autosampler ,  comprises the injector needle that feeds a sample or carrier gas into the inlet
reverse transcribe pcr is a process which allow amplification of cdna during a pcr reaction while the cdna results from a retrotranscription of messenger rna isolated from a material entity .
capillary lc - nmr is a hyphenated technique coupling capillary liquid chromatography and nmr ,  which increases sensitivity dramatically through the use of miniaturization of the chromatographic techniques and nmr detection volume .
a gas chromatography oven is an oven with a heated connection between the gc and the ms instrument in a gcms - analysis ,  that keeps compounds in the gas phase as they leave the gc oven .
an optional part of an nmr instrument used to hold samples prior to nmr analysis and that sequentially loads these samples into the analytical part of the nmr instrument .
a pump system optimized for isocratic chromatography .
any pump system used in flash column chromatography to push the solvent through the column .
the unity inova is also the easiest spectrometer to use and is also the choice of those interested in using advanced nmr techniques in their own research ,  but without becoming ,  or hiring ,  an nmr expert .
an nmr probe that is designed to hold a liquid sample .
an ion exchange column is a chromatography column that is used in ion exchange chromatography and anion or cation exchange resins to enable separation .
an nmr probe that is manufactured by bruker .
an anion trap column is a trap column and ion - exchange column which contains cationic anion - exchange resins .
a single wavelength detector ,  where the excitation light wavelength is normally a mercury lamp generated high intensity uv light at 253 .7 nm .
the eagle is a 4 mm 1h / x solid - state mas probe with a top spinning speed of 18 khz .
the electrical conductivity detector measures the conductivity of the mobile phase .
an instrument which is used to carry out a nmr analysis of some sample .
an nmr magnet manufactured by bruker that ensures field homogeneity without amplified effects from vibrations or thermal changes .
the seal made by a piston in a diaphragm pump .
a mass selective detector is a gc detector that uses mass spectrometry .
a spin column is a chromatography column which is suitable for putting it into a centrifuge .
manufacturer role is a role which inheres in a person or organization and which is realized by a manufacturing process .
a combination of devices that are used in connection with a sampling head for transferring components of an applied sample to the analyzing part of a chromatography system .
a pump system optimized for gradient chromatography .
a high temperature column is a chromatography column which is suitable for and withstands very high temperatures in chromatography ovens .
an nmr magnet manufactured by bruker for ultra - high field nmr ,  available from 750 mhz to 900 mhz ,  which provides reliable operation at reduced temperature and ambient pressure via being rigidly mounted and stabilized .
a material entity that consists of all the molecules of a specific type that are located in some bounded region and which is part of a more massive material entity that has parts that are other such aggregates
a concentration is a relational quality that inheres in a material entity towards molecular scattered aggregate that is part of it by virtue of some ratio of masses of the two or the counts of the grains of the two or volume occupied by the larger material entity .
the sample - tube holds the nmr sample and sits in the nmr probe .
the predecessor series of the varian unity inova spectrometer .
a spectrometer suitable for metabolomics and in vivo nmr studies but structural analysis of small molecules and low molecular weight proteins can also be performed .
a column connector that connects one column on one side with two columns at the other side ,  hence building a y shaped structure .
includes the connection to a high - resolution tof - lc - ms system .
for analyzing non - uv absorbing substances ,  such as carbohydrates ,  lipids and polymers .
an anion exchange column is a chromatography column that is used in anion exchange chromatography and which enables the separation of anion mixtures .
a plunger column is a chromatography column with adjustable heigth control .
the determination of sulfur or phosphorus containing compounds is the job of the flame photometric detector  ( fpd )  .
better flow rates can be achieved by using a pump or by using compressed gas  ( e .g .
over the past few years there has been a significantly growing demand for miniaturization in all areas ofmodern research and development .
the introduction of biological screening and combinatorial chemistry for chemical synthesis has also introduced new requirements for nmr automation ,  e .g . ,  the use of well plates for sample input ,  increased demands on throughput ,  and the need for quick and simple interpretation of the acquired nmr data .
an optical filter that is used to obtain monochromatic light of a defined wavelength from detector lamps .
a cation trap column is a trap column and ion - exchange column which contains anionic cation - exchange resins .
an adapter that enabled the connection of a column to additional devices .
a chromatography detector as used by high - performance anion exchange chromatography that provides sensitive and specific detection of carbohydrates .
an nmr instrument that is manufactured by bruker .
an nmr magnet that is manufactured by bruker .
although there are many direct ozone chemiluminescent reactions with various gaseous molecules ,  the incorporation of a conversion step to convert various non - chemiluminescent analytes to a species capable of reacting with ozone to produce chemiluminescence broadens the horizon of this technique tremendously .
an nmr console manufactured by tecmac .
an nmr instrument that is manufactured by jeol .
a chromatography consumable is a consumable that is used in a chromatography experiment .
a part of the column content that separates column packing compartments .
a liquid chromatography column is a chromatography column that is used in liquid chromatography ,  i .e .
a lamp used in a chromatography detector that excites sample molecules at certain frequencies  /  emission wavelengths ,  e .g .
the chart recorder is a device that transduces signal - intensities into a graphical peak output: as the separated components of the gas sample emerge into the detector ,  the change in voltage in the detecting bridge circuit causes a representative peak to be drawn on a chart recorder .
an open tubular column is a chromatography column in which the particles of the solid stationary phase or the support coated with a liquid stationary phase are concentrated on or along the inside tube wall leaving an open ,  unrestricted path for the mobile phase in the middle part of the tube .
samples that are neither solid nor liquid ,  being of biological ,  chemical ,  or pharmaceutical interest ,  reveal highly resolved spectra when magic angle spinning is applied .
a gas generator that generates hydrogen gas .
a glass column is a chromatography column made out of glass that is usually used for larger scale and preparative liquid chromatography separations .
a gas chromatography device that can auto - inject a small number of samples an inlet .
an nmr instrument that is manufactured by varian .
the bruker multiple adjustable tube clamp holder match system is a holder for 100 mm long nmr sample tubes with diameters ranging from micro tubes up to 5 mm nmr tubes .
a solid phase extraction  ( spe )  system provides an interface between liquid chromatography  ( lc )  and nmr .
guard columns are installed between the injection valve and the analytical or preparative column and here will remove contaminants and prolong the lifetime of the columns .
an assay that determines protein expression and translation activity using protein extracts collected from a material entity .
the automatic tuning and matching  ( atm )  option for avance spectrometers is available for double resonance probes in fixed - frequency and broadband tunable configurations with either direct or indirect detection .
a gas chromatographic detection system based on the low pressure ,  gas phase chemiluminescence of the reaction mixture of molecular fluorine with organo - sulfur ,   - selenium ,  and  - tellurium compounds separated from  ( gas phase )  headspace samples .
a size exclusion column is a chromatography column as used in size exclusion chromatography and which enables the separation of mixtures according to differrences in molecular size .
an adjustable restriction that is placed in the waste outlet to allow the necessary pressure to develop at the column inlet to force a flow  ( q ml / min )  through the column .
for medical ,  biological and material sciences research ,  avance imaging systems provide optimal object handling and performance with a variety of samples types .
a custom made column ia a chromatography column which is specifically tailored according to the needs of the separation as requested by a scientist or working group .
a gel permeation column is a chromatography column which is used in gel permeation chromatography and which employs as the stationary phase a swollen gel made by polymerizing and cross - linking styrene in the presence of a diluent which is a nonsolvent for the styrene polymer .
an assay that exploits the magnetic properties of certain nuclei  ( those with a spin )  to resonate when placed in particular magnetic field conditions .
bruker biospin introduces the samplejet ,  a robot for nmr tube automation .
the ecx series of nmr spectrometers is designed for any laboratory needing an easy - to - use ,  reliable ,  routine nmr system .
a sequencing assay which determines information on the sequence of a dna molecule .
a pump system that pump and mix up to four different solvents in parallel .
carbon nanotubes  ( cnts )  are known to have high thermal and mechanical stability and have the potential to be high - performance separation media that utilize the nanoscale interactions .
magic angle spinning ,  nowadays a routine technique for solids nmr ,  still offers the capability of innovation .
an assay that studies blood and blood producing organs using a variety of techniques and instruments
mercuryplus spectrometers provide superior control ,  stability ,  and performance for high - productivity environments .
an nmr platform for conducting metabonomics studies ,  traditional metabolism studies ,  and analysis of complex mixtures ,  featuring an avance nmr spectrometer and a microtof from bruker daltonics .
the glass liner can be fitted with a separate heater and the volatilization temperature can ,  thus ,  be controlled .
an assay that measures the state of methylation of dna molecules using genomic dna collected from a material entity using a range of techniques and instrument such as dna sequencers and often relying on treatment with bisulfites to ensure cytosine conversion .
the jeol eca and ecx nmr spectrometers now support the mrm / protasis capnmr probe for well plate - based and microvial - based nmr analysis .
a computer used for nmr ,  can be divided into central processing unit  ( cpu )  ,  consisting of instruction ,  interpretation and arithmetic unit plus fast access memory ,  and peripheral devices such as bulk data storage and input and output devices  ( including ,  via the interface ,  the spectrometer )  .
a gas chromatography detector is a chromatography detector that locates in the dimensions of space and time ,  the positions of the components of a mixture that has been subjected to a gas chromatographic process and thus permits the senses to appreciate the nature of the separation .
gas purifiers are instruments used for the removal of gas impurities like hydrocarbons ,  oxygen ,  and moisture from carrier gas and fuel gases for gc or gc - ms systems .
is an objective to transform a material entity into spatially separated components .
an nmr probe designed to allow the indirect detection of acquisition nuclei .
the eca series of nmr spectrometers is a high performance ,  research grade nmr system configurable to a wide range off applications .
instead of measuring simple gas phase  ( carbon containing )  ions created in a flame as with the flame ionization detector ,  or the change in background current because of electronegative element capture of thermal electrons as with the electron capture detector ,  the aed has a much wider applicability because it is based on the detection of atomic emissions .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class discovery data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned discovered class labels .
a data set that is produced as the output of a descriptive statistical calculation data transformation and consists of producing a data set that represents one or more features of interest about the input data set .
a differential expression analysis data transformation is a data transformation that has an objective of differential expression analysis .
a portion of urine collected from an organism
is a material processing with the objective to combine two or more material entities as input into a single material entity as output .
a fuzzy clustering objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to assign input objects  ( typically vectors of attributes )  a probability that a point belongs to a class ,  where the number of class and their specifications are not known a priori .
a quality inheres_in some device and is concretization of some  ( device_setting_specification and is_about a quality of the device
a material entity derived from a portion of blood collected from an organism
a data set which is the output of a curve fitting data transformation in which the aim is to find a curve which matches a series of data points and possibly other constraints .
data representational model is an information content entity of the  relationships between data items .
a planned process with the objective of collecting a specimen .
a data set that is produced as the output of a background correction data transformation .
an analyte assay where binding of an enzyme linked antibody to a material entity that is immobilized on solid support is detected utilizing a chemiluminescent reaction .
a data set that is produced as the output of an error correction data transformation and consists of producing a data set which has had erroneous contributions from the input to the data transformation removed  ( corrected for )  .
a class prediction data transformation  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class prediction .
a cell proliferation assay in which cells are cultured in the presence of brdu which is incorporated into newly synthesized dna of replicating cells  ( during the s phase of the cell cycle )  ,  substituting for thymidine during dna replication ,  which can be quantified by brdu specific antibodies .
the measurement of cytokines within the cytoplasm of a cell by permeabilizing the cell membrane to allow entry of specific antibodies ,  and counting the stained cells using a flow cytometer .
a background correction data transformation  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation that has the objective background correction .
an mhc multimer assay is an assay that detects t cells capable of binding the mhc:ligand complexes present in the multimer .
an error correction data transformation is a data transformation that has the objective of error correction ,  where the aim is to remove  ( correct for )  erroneous contributions from the input to the data transformation .
a cell proliferation assay in which cells are cultured in the presence of tritiated thymidine which is incorporated into newly synthesized dna of replicating cells  ( during the s phase of the cell cycle )  .
a material obtained from an organism in order to be a representative of the whole
a statistical hypothesis test data transformation is a data transformation that has objective statistical hypothesis test .
a data item that is produced as the output of a center calculation data transformation and represents the center value of the input data .
is a data transformation objective where the aim is to estimate statistical significance with the aim of proving or disproving a hypothesis by means of some data transformation
a data set that is produced as the output of a data vector reduction data transformation and consists of producing a data set which has fewer vectors than the input data set .
a material separation objective aiming to separate material into multiple portions ,  each of which contains a similar composition of the input material .
a  data item that is produced as the output of an averaging data transformation and represents the average value of the input data .
a material entity which is the output of a process in which one or more whole organisms are prepared in a way to make it easier to study them ,  and in which the great majority of organismal parts are maintained
a material separation objective aiming to separate a material entity that has parts of different types ,  and end with at least one output that is a material with parts of fewer types  ( modulo impurities )  .
study result is an information content entity  that is a specified data output of a study .
a objective specification to obtain a material entity for potential use as an input during an investigation .
is a process with the objective to prepare a liquid solution of one or more chemicals at desired concentrations .
is an objective to obtain an output material that contains several input materials .
nucleotide overhang cloning is the process of inserting nucleic acid into a vector using nucleotide overhangs used to prevent self ligation
a rodent care protocol is an animal protocol in which the animals being taken care of are rodents .
is a dna sequencer first manufactured by 454 life science corporation in 2005 ,  and enables pyrosequencing to be performed .
is a process which realizes a material separation objective by relying on antibodies to specifically binding to material entity
is a dna sequencer which is manufactured by applied biosystems corporation  ( formerly perkin - elmer )  .
a recombination enzyme based cloning is a recombinant vector cloning process that uses complementary nucleotide sequences in both the insert genetic material and the cloning vector with a recombination enzyme to directly create a recombinant vector
a dna methylation profiling assay that identifies methylated sites in genomic dna and determines the methylation pattern that affect gene transcription using immunoprecipitation of methylated genomic dna ,  creation of a library of corresponding dna fragments  ( either single or paired - end fragments )  and subsequent sequencing using parallelized sequencing methods .
animal feeding is a process in which animals are provided with food
a dna sequencing assay which rely on the use of dideoxynucleotides used in 4 distinct sequencing reaction on the same dna sample .
is a dna sequencer which is manufactured by applied biosystems and which enable dna sequencing by ligation
a dna sequencing by synthesis assay that identifiies the sequnece of billions of dna molecules immobilized to a surface using dna polymerase and fluorescently labeled nucleotides added one at a time .
a dna ligase is an enzyme that covalently joins two compatible pieces of dna through the cleavage of an atp molecule
an assay that measures the occurrence of death events in one or more organisms over time
a support vector machine is a data transformation with a class prediction objective based on the construction of a separating hyperplane that maximizes the margin between two data sets of vectors in n - dimensional space .
a self - organizing map  ( som )  is an artificial neural network with objective class discovery that uses a neighborhood function to preserve the topological properties of a dataset to produce low - dimensional  ( typically 2 )  discretized representation of the training data set .
is a dna sequencer which was first manufactured by 454 life science corporation in 2008 and enables pyrosequencing to be performed .
is a dna sequence which is manufactured by illumina  ( solexa )  corporation .
a decision tree induction objective is a data transformation objective in which a tree - like graph of edges and nodes is created and from which the selection of each branch requires that some type of logical decision is made .
a sequencing assay in which the amino acid sequence of input peptides or proteins is determined by iteratively cleaving of the amino - terminal  ( n - terminal )  residue without disrupting the peptide bonds and identifying it by e .g .
a dna sequencing by ligation assay that identifies sequence information using primers to hybridize to the p1 adapter sequence within the library template ,  fluorescently labeled di - base probes to compete for ligation to the sequencing primer ,  multiple cycles of ligation ,  detection and cleavage to determine the eventual read length ,  following a series of ligation cycles ,  the extension product is removed and the template is reset with a primer complementary to the n - 1 position for a second round of ligation cycles .
a decision tree building data transformation is a data transformation that has objective decision tree induction .
a process that realizes an animal care protocol that specifies how animals are kept and maintained
a double - stranded dna that was engineered to contain a yeast origin of replication ,  encodes for a selectable gene product ,  contains a cloning site ,  and has yeast telomerase sequences
is a dna sequencer which is manufactured by li - cor corporation and enable automated chain termination based dna sequencing
is a process which results in the creation of a library from fragments of dna using cloning vectors or oligonucleotides with the role of adaptors .
a pathogen challenge is the administration of a live pathogenic organism to a host
a software that provides access to more than 100 tools for gene expression analysis ,  proteomics ,  snp analysis and common data processing tasks .
a construct that consists of many nodes connected with edges .
an animal care protocol is a protocol which specifies the environment in which animals are being kept in captivity for research purposes
an assay in which chromatin is immunoprecipitated and subsequently analyzed using a dna sequencing step to identify which parts of dna are part of the isolated chromatin
is a dna sequencer manufacturer by helicos corporation to carry out single molecule sequencing using reversible termination chemistry
pathogen role is a role which inheres in an organism and realized in the process of disease course in the organism bearing host role caused by the organism bearing pathogen role
vaccine preparation is a planned  process with specified output a vaccine
the role a material entity plays when it is co - administered with an immunogen in order to enhance the immune response to the immunogen .
an assay that measures glucose clearance from blood over time by repeated glucose measurement in blood serum or plasma after the administration of a glucose bolus in - vivo .
is a collection of short paired tags from the two ends of dna fragments are extracted and covalently linked as ditag constructs
a dna sequencing assay that performs chain extension during the sequencing reaction step using dna ligase
a dna sequencing by synthesis assay that identifies sequence information using dna polymerase and reversible terminator ,  requiring immobilization of genomic dna fragments onto a surface and a specific clonal amplification step known as bridge pcr .
host role is a role played by an organism and realized by providing nourishment ,  shelter or a means of reproduction to another organism within the organism playing the host role
peak matching is a data transformation performed on a dataset of a graph of ordered data points  ( e .g .
a k - nearest neighbors is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  in which an input data object with vector y is assigned to a class label based upon the k closest training data set points to y ;  where k is the largest value that class label is assigned .
rodent care  is the process by which rodents are being provided with a controlled living environment while kept in captivity for the purpose of research .
a cloning plasmid is a plasmid that was engineered to contain a bacterial origin of replication ,  encodes for a selectable gene product and contains a cloning site .
a dna sequencing by synthesis assay which sequences a single strand of dna by synthesizing the complementary strand along it ,  one base pair at a time ,  and detecting which base was actually added at each step .
a recombinant vector is created by a recombinant vector cloning process ,  and contains nucleic acids that can be amplified .
an enzyme that has a specific target cleavage sites within nucleic acids
a dna sequencing assay that relies on dna polymerase activity to perform chain extension during the sequencing reaction step .
a material consisting of 14 .5% protein ,  8 .5% fat and 9 .5% fiber produced to feed rodents
is a collection of short tags from dna fragments ,  are extracted and covalently linked as single tag constructs
a cloning vector is an engineered material that is used as an input material for a recombinant vector cloning process to carry inserted nucleic acids .
restriction enzyme based cloning is a recombinant vector cloning process that has as an input genetic material that was cleaved with restriction enzymes ,  and a cloning vector that was cleaved with complementary restriction enzymes .
studen't t - test is a data transformation with the objective of a statistical hypothesis test in which the test statistic has a student's t distribution if the null hypothesis is true .
a material sample role is a specimen role borne by a material entity that is the output of a material sampling process .
a clustered data set in which the topology ,  i .e .
a nucleic acid digest is a material that is the output of a process in which nucleic acids are combined with a restriction enzyme resulting in digested fragments with defined ends based on the enzymes cleavage site
an assay that determines information about an immune response
a specimen gathering process with the objective to obtain a specimen that is representative of the input material entity
a material entity that has the material sample role
a dna methylation profiling assay which determines the methylation status of genomic dna using dna sequencing techniques preceded by a bisulfite based chemical modification of genomic dna at cpg island location .
a cart  ( classification and regression trees )  is a data transformation method for producing a classification or regression model with a tree - based structure .
a directive information entity that is part of a study design .
dependent variable specification is part of a study design .
a 'blue top' test tube that contains anticoagulant for storing blood specimens'
controlled variable specification  is a part of a study design .
an assay that measures the amount of antithrombin iii in blood .
a complex of two or more linked mhc molecules including a fluorescent label that can be loaded with a ligand ,  and is used in flow cytometry assay to bind to t cell receptors of t cells specific for the ligand
a measurement data that represents the percentage of people or animals in a study or treatment group who are alive for a given period of time after diagnosis or initiation of monitoring .
recombinant bac cloning is a  process with the objective to insert genetic material into an f plasmid based bacterial artificial chromosome for future replication of the inserted material
a multiple testing correction objectives is a data transformation objective where the aim is to correct for a set of statistical inferences considered simultaneously
a data transformation which assesses how the results of a statistical analysis will generalize to an independent data set .
a double blind study execution is defined as any study execution in which neither the subjects nor the investigators are informed of which study arm the subjects are part of during the portion of the trial when the subjects are being treated
a measurement device with the function to measure and record the level / amount of glucose in a blood sample
the objective to separate a material entity into different compositions of which one or more have are purified fractions that contain higher concentration of a desired component ,  while others contain impurities and are not of interest
the primary structure of a protein that is completely defined by the set of its amino acid residue parts and the linear order induced by the peptide bonds that hold them together
a small rounded gelatinous container
recombinant phage cloning is the process of using a phage plus some insert nucleic acid for the purposes of amplification of the insert material achieved by phage assembly in vitro .
a process in which bonds are created that link one polymer to another
a measurement datum which represents information about an ordered series of action potentials in an organism's cns measured over time .
an assay that measures the prothrombin ratio ,  which is the prothrombin time for a patient ,  divided by the result for control plasma .
is a process in which the tertiary or secondary structure of a polymer is disrupted
a process in which an investigator is made aware of which study arm that a patient is participating in ,  for example whether they are receiving a placebo or a treatment with an investigational compound .
an antithrombin - iii  ( at - iii )  assay in which exogenous bovine thrombin and heparin are added to test plasma to form a thrombin - heparin - at complex .
an objective specification maintains some or all of the qualities of a material over time .
a planned process in which an organism is exposed to some stimulus with the intent to invoke an action
an assay that quantitatively measures heparin in human plasma using factor xa and antithrombin iii in excess ,  where the rate of factor xa inhibition is directly proportional to the heparin concentration .
dna that has been produced in an enzymatic amplification process
a planned process in which a person or their legal representative is informed about key facts about potential risks and benefits of a process and makes a documented decision as to whether the person in question will participate .
a quality of a dna molecule that inheres in its bearer due to the order of its dna nucleotide residues .
an assay that measures neural activity in the caudate nucleus
a study subject role which begins to exist when a subject is assigned to be one of those who will receive active ingredient ,  and is realized in a study execution in which they receive the active ingredient
guar gum ,  also called guaran ,  is a galactomannan .
for the chromogenic determination of antithrombin iii .
an electrode of very fine caliber consisting usually of a fine wire or a glass tube of capillary diameter drawn to a fine point and filled with saline or a metal used in physiological experiments to stimulate or record action currents of extracellular or intracellular origin in the nervous system .
fucoidan is a sulfated polysaccharide  ( mw: average 20 , 000 )  found mainly in various species of brown seaweed such as kombu ,  limu moui , bladderwrack ,  wakame ,  mozuku ,  and hijiki  ( variant forms of fucoidan have also been found in animal species ,  including the sea cucumber )  .
a planned process with the objective to establish the relationship between data produced by a measurement device and physical qualities .
storage of a blood specimen in a tube with anticoagulant
an assay that evaluates blood coagulation by measuring the time required for the appearance of fibrin strands following the mixing blood or plasma with phospholipid platelet substitute  ( e .g . ,  crude cephalins ,  soybean phosphatides )  .
a pill in the form of a small rounded gelatinous container with medicine inside .
a single blind study execution is defined as any study execution in which the subjects are not informed of which study arm they are part of during the portion of the trial when the subjects are being treated
an assay that measures the time between the addition of the thrombin and the clot formation in plasma .
recombinant yac cloning is a  process with the objective to insert genetic material into a yeast artificial chromosome vector for future replication of the inserted material
a study subject role which begins to exist when a subject is assigned to be one of those who will receive a placebo ,  and realized in a study execution in which they receive the placebo
a planned process ,  part of a study design execution ,  during which the treatment of subjects is ongoing
a dose of medicine or placebo in the form of a small pellet .
an organization formed with a goal to have its members conduct investigations
a quality inhering in a molecule that is completely defined by the linear sequence of a set of residues which are connected by directional ,  linear bonds
a quality of a dna residue that has a methyl group attached to it
a device in which a measure function inheres .
the output of an extraction process in which dna molecules above a molecular weight cutoff are purified in order to exclude dna from organellas .
a person or organization that has a manufacturer role
a test tube is a device consisting of a glass or plastic tubing ,  open at the top ,  usually with a rounded u - shaped bottom which has the function to contain material
an adding a material entity to target with the entity is a pill and the target is the mouth
a process with that achieves the objective to maintain some or all of the characteristics of an input material over time
a labeled oligonucleotide is a short nucleic acid which underwent a labeling process resulting in a radioactive isotope such as p32 or p33 added to its backbone for instance by end labeling with polynucleotide kinase which added radiolabeled atp to the 5' end of oligonucleotide
the part of the study execution in which the subjects are told what study arm they are in and in which the investigators are told which subjects are in which trials
a process in which a subject receives an informed consent document and agrees that they have understood it
a process in which the subject is made aware of which study arm they are participating in ,  for example whether they are receiving a placebo or a treatment with an investigational compound .
the sysmex ca - 6000 automated coagulation analyzer is a random access instrument that is capable of performing 20 clot - based and chromogenic assays
a medical organization at which sick or injured people are given clinical care
the primary structure of an rna molecule that is completely defined by the set of its nucleic residue parts and the linear order induced by the peptide bonds that hold them together
a role born by a material entity and realized in a process where the substance is used as specified as the independent variable for an investigation
a rna extraction process typically involving the use of poly dt oligomers in which the desired output material is polya rna .
a rna extraction process in which the desired output material is rna in the organelle ( s )  .
a information content entity created to indicate that information about something is not available to the person recording it .
an analyte assay that detects specific peptides in an input material by separating it using gel electrophoresis ,  transfering the separated molecules to a membrane ,  and staining them with_ antibodies specific to the analyte molecules .
a rna extraction process in which total cellular and organelle rna are extracted .
an assay in which the presence of a material inside a cell is measured by permeabilizing the cell membrane to allow entry of specific antibodies ,  and counting the stained cells using a flow cytometer .
a role played by a nucleic acid molecule that is used in a planned process for its ability to bind a nucleic acid molecules with complementary nucleotide sequence
a record indicating that the biological sex of an organism is not known .
a rna extraction process in which the desired output material is rna in the cytoplasm .
an assay that determines the presence of gene transcripts by hybridizing labeled rna or dna probes against messenger rnas isolated from tissue or cell cultures ,  resolved on denaturing gel ,  transfered by a blotting procedure to a solid support .
likelihood - ratio is a data transformation which tests whether there is evidence of the need to move from a simple model to a more complicated one  ( where the simple model is nested within the complicated one )  ;  tests of the goodness - of - fit between two models .
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules found in the nucleus ,  including mrna precursors  ( pre - mrna )  ,  are extracted .
a serum neutralization of viral infectivity assay which is performed in a 96 - well plate .
is a planned process in which the objective is to generate a cell line from a natural population of cancer cells which are already immortal
a pattern matching objective aims to detect the presence of the constituents of a given pattern .
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules with poly a tail at its 3' end are purified .
an assay that provides information about the secondary structure of nucleic acids using chemical or enzymatic probing to establish the extent of base - pairing or solvent accessiblity .
an assay that quantifies viruses by their hemagglutination activity .
an analyte assay that measures virus - neutralizing abilities of different sera .
a specimen that was taken from a live organism
an analyte assay in which a specified input material  ( the evaluant )  is examined for the presence or quantity of specified nucleic acid polymers ,  which are identified based on the use of complementary nucleic acid probes .
an assay that measures the ability of an evaluant to inhibit hemagglutination by a virus .
a rna extract that is the output of a rna extraction process in which rna molecules found in the cytoplasm are extracted .
an establishing cell line process whereby a mortal cell line is intentionally genetically modified to be capable of indefinite propagation and re - established as a new immortal cell line
a labeling in which random primers are used to uniformly label input dna
an extract which is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules are isolated from a specimen .
a cytometry assay that monitors a cell population to track how many are killed by other cells .
a cell killing assay that measures if and how many target cells are killed within an organism .
a quality inhering in a molecule that refers to general three - dimensional form of local segments of biopolymers such as proteins and nucleic acids  ( dna / rna )  .
a rna extraction process in which the desired output material is rna in the nucleus .
a survival curve is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where the percentage of survival is plotted as a function of time .
a cytometry assay which measures the degreee to which input cells are replicating .
an analyte assay that detects the presence of a specific sequence in a dna sample ,  which has been digested by restriction enzymes ,  resolved by gel electrophoresis ,  and blotted to a solid support ,  followed by hybridization of a probe raised against a specific sequence and detected with fluorescence or radioactivity .
an assay ,  based on the pcr ,  that amplifies and simultaneously quantifies a specific dna molecule based on the use of complementary probes / primers .
a protein extract is the output of an extraction process from tissues or cell cultures resulting in a solution of cellular and / or organellar proteins in buffer solution used to prevent degradation , 
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which total celluar and organelle rna molecules are isolated from a specimen .
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay which determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using depc as reagent and chemical probe
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules found in an organelle ,  e .g . ,  mitochondrion ,  er ,  or chloroplast ,  excluding the nucleus ,  are extracted .
a specimen that was taken from a dead organism
a cell killing assay that measures if and how many target cells are actively killed by other cells in a cell culture .
an analyte assay in which a cell line whose growth is known to be affected by the presence of a specific type of material  ( the anlyte )  is cultured in the presence of an input material  ( the evaluant )  in order to detect presence of the analyte in the evaluant .
information about a sequence region
the clumping or clustering of red blood cells caused by certain viruses ,  antibodies ,  or other substances
the planned process of providing material entities \ nto be used in an investigation .
a labeled specimen that is the output of a labeling process and has grain labeled dna to be able to detect dna in future experiments .
a specimen obtained by inserting a swab deeply into the vent of the cloaca of \ nan organism and vigorously swabbing the wall .
an assay in which a radioactive labeled antigen or antibody is used to determine the interaction between an antigen and its receptor .
an assay that uses a reverse transcription step  ( an rna strand is reverse transcribed into its dna complement using the enzyme reverse transcriptase )  before a pcr assay .
a 3d structure determination assay in which the diffraction of pattern of x - ray beams in a crystal of purified material entities is used to resolve the 3 - dimensional structure of the material entity of interest .
an assay in which the activity of a promoter in a cell is monitored by using a reporter gene that was inserted in a genomic location under control of the promoter and whose expression can be easily detected based on qualities or functions of the gene .
a speciemn which derives from nasopharyngeal mucosa after \ naspiration .
a storage process in temperature that maintenance the frozen status of the stored entities .
a cytometry assay in which an input cell population is put in solution ,  is passed by a laser ,  and optical sensors are used to detect scattering of the laser light and / or fluorescence of specific markers to count and characterize the particles in solution .
a specimen obtained using a cotton swab on a stick ,  passed up the nostril to obtain a sample of \ nexudate and epithelial debris for microbiological or cellular examination .
a culture medium containing iron ,  phenol red ,  amino acids ,  salts ,  glucose and vitamins .
a process in which is the end of life of animal is brought about in accordance with local regulations on treatment of animal subjects and using a method which causes minimal pain and distress to the animal subject
an analyte assay in which a series of beads coated with antibodies specific for different analytes and marked with discrete fluorescent labels are used to simultaneously capture and quantitate soluble analytes .
a labeled specimen that is the output of a labeling process and has grain labeled rna to be able to detect rna in future experiments .
a specimen that has been frozen in order to store it .
a binding assay that uses the detection of electromagnetic waves in a surface to detect material entities adsorbed to the surface ,  which change the local optical index of refraction .
a specimen  that has been modified in order to be able to detect it in future experiments
is a material entity bearing the disposition to infect an organism
a storage process with input material entity and output freeze dried material for long time storage
a material separation function is a function that decreases the resolution between two or more material entities .
a service provider role which is realized by a servicer provider organization performing some training
a measurement device that is used to calculate the heat flow of a chemical reaction or physical change .
the part of the execution of an intervention design study which is varied between two or more subjects in the study
a device with a separation function realized in a planed process
a device that produces a three - dimensional image or picture of functional processes in the body .
is the injection of a material entity  ( bearing the administered substance role )  into the muscle  ( bearing the target role )  of an organism using a syringe
a device that is used to physically interact with a sample under a microscope ,  where a level of precision of movement is necessary that cannot be achieved by the unaided human hand .
a service provider role which is realized by a servicer provider organization performing access to some material
a measurement datum that is reported on a categorical scale
a process that achieves a training objective
a microscope that produces an image of an object by targeting it with an electro - magnetic beam in the visible frequency range
a role which inheres in a person who uses a service
is the injection of a material entity  ( bearing the administered substance role )  into the dermis  ( bearing the target role )  of an organism using a syringe
chemical cleavage is a protocol application relying on a chemical compound to cause the fragmentation of an input material that is susceptible to that chemical agent
an assay that measures the unequal distribution of fine motor skill between the left and right hands typically in human subjects by means of some questionnaire and scoring procedure .
a device  that supports another device such as a precision instrument by isolating it from vibration that is transmitted from the floor .
a function to remove viable organisms from an input material
is a role which inheres in a person or organization and is realized in in a planned process which provides access to training ,  materials or execution of protocols for an organization or person
a device that measures and displayes signal voltages ,  usually as a two - dimensional graph of one or more electrical potential differences  ( vertical axis )  plotted as a function of time or of some other voltage  ( horizontal axis )  .
is realized in a planned process where the bearer participates
a specimen that is output of a paraffin storage process in which specimen is embedded in paraffin
an intervention design in which the treatment is the administration of a compound
an administering substance in vivo into the mouth of an organism
a specimen that has been intentionally physically modified .
is the injection of a material entity  ( bearing the administered substance role )  into the hypodermis  ( bearing the target role )  of an organism using a syringe
a device used in the first step in making electrodes ,  that applies constant tension on a glass capillary tube and eventually breaks it while heating it ;  this produces a very fine point on the capillary tube .
an assay where a person makes a statement that indicates what handedness he has from a choice of different categories .
a preparation device that uses a vibrating razor blade to cut through tissue .
a function that is realized when a reagent is automatically added to some research material .
a reagent application function that is realized when a molecular tracer ,  such as an antibody or probe is automatically transferred to a biological specimen .
an objective specification which is fulfilled by the provision of some training .
a label that is part of a categorical datum and that indicates the value of the data item on the categorical scale .
an assay in which a measurement is made by observing entities located in a live cell .
a specimen that is output of a lyophilization storage process in which specimen is lyophilized for storage .
an assay in which a measurement is made by observing entities located in an organism .
a device that can be used to restrict the location of material entities over time
a material entity that is designed to perform a function in a scientific investigation ,  but is not a reagent .
a directive information entity that describes the dose that will be administered to a target
a measurement datum which is the result of combining multiple datum .
a specimen that is output of a specimen creation process used for an investigation without storage .
a processed material created to have a function and which requires electrical power to execute
a measurement datum that representing the primary structure of a macromolecule ( it's sequence )  sometimes associated with an indicator of confidence of that measurement . \ n
a binding assay which uses a flow cytometer to detect pairs of cells that are bound to each other by staining them with different fluorescent labels .
a datum used to record the answer to a self assessment of whether a person uses their left hand ,  right hand primarily or each hand equally
a storage process with input organism or anatomical entity and paraffin and output material embedded in paraffin for long term storage
an assay in which a measurement is made by observing entities located in a container .
a service provider role which is realized by a servicer provider organization performing a protocol execution
a specimen that is output of a process that cell culture inoculated into agar for long term storage .
an image acquisition device that generates a three - dimensional image of the inside of an object from a large series of two - dimensional x - ray images taken around a single axis of rotation .
the administration of a substance into the intranasal mucosis of an organism
a measurement datum that measures the quantity of something that may be administered to an organism or that an organism may be exposed to .
a study design in which the independent variable is the environmental condition in which the specimen is growing
a training process with the objective to provide a trainee with the skill to run dna sequencing experiments
the interpretation of the information available about bodily features  ( clinical picture )  of a patient resulting in a diagnosis
a device that is used to amplify a single or few copies of a piece of dna across several orders of magnitude ,  generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular dna sequence .
a microscope that produces an image of an object by targeting it with an electron beam
a score that measures the dominance of a person's right or left hand in everyday activities .
a dna sequencing  process provided as a service  -  which is the realization of some dna sequencing in which the service provider role is realized .
an objective which is fulfilled by the provision of some service e .g .
is the injection of a material entity  ( bearing the administered substance role )  into the vein  ( bearing the target role )  of an organism using a syringe
the directed combination of a material entity with a specimen .
an objective which aims to create a device with a specified function
the collection of material entities and their qualities that are located near a live organism ,  tissue or cell and can influence its growth .
a document with a set of printed or written questions with a choice of answers ,  devised for the purposes of a survey or statistical study .
an assay that uses a set of questions  ( the edinburgh handedness inventory )  to generate a score that can be used to assess the dominance of a person's right or left hand in everyday activities .
a device formed by conducting material or by a mesh of such material ,  that blocks out external static electric fields .
a storage process with input cell culture and agar and output agar stab for long time storage
a single - nucleotide - resolution ribonucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using rnase cl3 as reagent and enzymatic probe .
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay which uses cmct as reagent and chemical probe to generate data and information at nucleotide resolution scale contributing to the determination of nucleic acid secondary structure
a planned process that captures an image of an object .
a single - nucleotide - resolution ribonucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at the nucleotide resolution scale using fe - mp as reagent and chemical probe .
a binding assay where the specified output determines if two or more material entities do or do not have the disposition to form a complex above a threshold level of significance .
an extract that is the output of an extraction process in which nucleic acid molecules are isolated from a specimen .
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines the secondary structure of a nucleic acid at the nucleotide resolution scale which uses enu as reagent and chemical probe
a single - nucleotide - resolution ribonucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using rnase v1 as reagent and enzymatic probe
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at nucleotide resolution scale using kethoxal as reagent and chemical probe
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines structural information about the rna species under study using proteins acting as enzymatic probes .
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay which determins nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using dms as reagent and chemical probe
a single - nucleotide - resolution deoxyribonucleic acid structure mapping assay which uses dnase 1 as reagent and enzymatic probe to generate data and information at nucleotide resolution scale contributing to the determination of nucleic acid secondary structure
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines structural information about the rna species under study using small chemical compounds acting as chemical probes .
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using rhodium as reagent and chemical probe .
a single - nucleotide - resolution ribonucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using rna adenosine deaminase i as reagent and enzymatic probe .
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at nucleotide resolution scale using lead as reagent and chemical probe
a single - nucleotide - resolution ribonucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using rnase t2 as reagent and enzymatic probe
an assay that measures changes in phenotype due to increased or decreased dosage of a single allele of a gene .
a single - nucleotide - resolution ribonucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using fe - babe as reagent and chemical probe .
a single - nucleotide - resolution ribonucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using rnaase u2 as reagent and enzymatic probe
a binding assay where the specified output is a binding constant
a single - nucleotide - resolution ribonucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at the nucleotide resolution scale using nmia as reagent and chemical probe
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using terbium as reagent and chemical probe
a planed process with objective of obtaining quantified values from an image .
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay hat determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using hydroxyl radical as reagent and chemical probe
a single - nucleotide - resolution ribonucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale uses rnase t1 as reagent and enzymatic probe .
an image creation process that generate an image from the array .
a device which has a function to emit light .
a perturbation device is a device which is designed to perform a perturb function
an environmental control device is a device which has the function to control some aspect of the environment such as temperature ,  or humidity .
a single - nucleotide - resolution deoxyribonucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using dnase 1 as reagent and enzymatic probe .
a function that allows specific identification of individual speciment from one another .
a specimen  \ nfixation function is a function that holds or fastens an entity in a fixed position .
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at a nucleotide resolution scale using rhutenium as reagent and chemical probe
a single - nucleotide - resolution ribonucleic acid structure mapping assay that determines nucleic acid secondary structure at nucleotide resolution scale using intromolecular reactivity
a current amplification function is an amplification function that increases the amplitude of a current .
a stabilization function is a function that holds or isolates an entity such as an instrument or specimen steadfast or at an unfluctuating level or quantity .
a transfer unction where the transfer requires work to move the entity ,  often against a gradient .
is a transfer function that displaces cells from one place to another
a device that records the patterns of pulse waves inside blood vessels .
a device that is used to transfer nucleic acids from agarose gels onto a membrane ,  based on the movement of buffer from a reservoir through the gel and the blotting membrane to a stack of dry blotting paper by capillary force .
a device or system that supports a biologically active environment .
a device that is used to measure the ph  ( acidity or alkalinity )  of a liquid .
an image acquisition device that takes video or still photographs ,  or both ,  digitally by recording images via an electronic image sensor .
a device for dropping and immobilizing a solution of biomolecules ,  for example ,  nucleic acids such as probe dna ,  mrna ,  and peptide nucleic acid  ( pna )  ,  and proteins on a dna microarray surface to manufacture a dna microarray .
a device that is used to isolate and collect rna for subsequent molecular analysis .
the output of an extraction process in which dna molecules are purified in order to exclude dna from organellas .
a light source used in fluorescence imaging that allows the imaging of living tissue up to a depth of 1 mm ,  based on the concept that two photons of low energy can excite a fluorophore in a quantum event ,  resulting in the emission of a fluorescence photon ,  typically at a higher energy than either of the two excitatory photons .
a device that moves charged particles through a medium by using an electric field induced by electrodes .
a device that is used to produce targeted molecular pharmaceuticals for use in positron emission tomography .
a confocal microscope that uses a nipkow disk ,  a mechanical ,  geometrically operating image scanning device .
an oligonucleotide synthesizer that is used to custom - build dna molecules to contain a particular sequence of nucleotides .
a liquid chromatography instrument that consists of a reservoir of mobile phase ,  a pump ,  an injector ,  a separation column ,  and a detector .
a measurement device that detects biological ,  chemical or physical events of samples in microtiter plates .
a microplate reader that is used for enzyme - linked immunosorbent assays  ( elisa )  .
a robotic device that is used to excise spots from gels .
a device that is used to apply microwave irradiation to chemical reactions .
a device that measures the degree of darkness  ( the optical density )  of a photographic or semitransparent material or of a reflecting surface .
a device that is used to automatically stain tissue sections on slides or tissue specimens .
a device for processing histological tissue having a tissue carrier basket suspended from a turntable overlying a plurality of beakers suspended from a carrier plate .
an optical microscope that uses two separate optical paths with two objectives and two eyepieces to provide slightly different viewing angles to the left and right eyes .
a balance that consists of a metal plate on which to place an object and a digital readout of the measurement of its mass .
a device or system in which perfusion units are integrated .
a nuclear medicine tomographic imaging device that uses gamma rays to provide 3d information ,  typically presented as cross - sectional slices through the specimen but with the ability to be freely reformatted or manipulated as required .
a manufacturer role which is played by the person or organization that manufactured the array
a device that is used to measure ionizing radiation .
a confocal microscope that uses a programmable spatial light modulator for generating an arbitrary pattern of conjugate illumination and detection apertures .
a device consisting of a vessel ,  similar in construction to a vacuum flask ,  that is used to maintain cold cryogenic temperatures .
a glass cutting and breaking device that is used to produce glass knives used in ultramicrotomy .
a device that is used for the fixation or stabilization of biological materials as the first step in specimen preparation for electron microscopy .
a device that creates an appropriate environment for nucleic acid hybridization .
an incubating device that provides shaking motion for biomedical applications  ( e .g . ,  cell cultures )  .
a device that is used to image small laboratory animals  ( e .g . ,  rats and mice )  in vivo .
an image acquisition device that is responsive to an infrared emissive target within a given field of view .
a microscope that is used to increase micrograph contrast and / or reconstruct three - dimensional images by using a spatial pinhole to eliminate out - of - focus light in specimens that are thicker than the focal plane .
a device used in electrophysiology that allows the study of single or multiple ion channels in cells .
a device that is used to acquire images of laboratory gels .
a device that is used for the separation of proteins .
a multichannel pipette that can be programmed by the user to aspirate a volume of liquid reagent or sample and dispense the aspirated volume or a series of aliquots in successive dispensing operations .
a device that is used to effect the transition of a substance into a glass .
an image acquisition device that uses ionizing electromagnetic radiation such as x - rays to view objects .
a device that consists of a radiosensitive detector and a means of recording the effects of radiation on the detector .
a device that is used to freeze dry material .
a mass spectrometer in which ions are subjected to two or more sequential stages of analysis  ( which may be separated spatially or temporally )  according to the quotient mass / charge .
a hardness testing device that is used in light - optical microscopes .
a microplate reader that can detect multiple types of absorbance ,  luminescence or fluorescence .
a balance that is used to compare the weights of two bodies ,  to determine the difference in mass  ( or weight )  .
a group of linked computers ,  working together closely so that in many respects they form a single computer .
a device that is used to sharpen knives used in microtomy .
a device that provides shaking motion for microplates .
a device for automatically analyzing blood coagulation in a clinical laboratory .
a microscope that uses low - energy laser beams and special transfer film to lift single cells from a tissue .
a liquid handling device that provides automatic liquid extraction .
a device that is used to visualize subcutaneous body structures including tendons ,  muscles ,  joints ,  vessels and internal organs .
a device that is used for the imaging of immunoblots .
a type of centrifuge that is designed for small tubes  ( 0 .2 ml to 2 .0 ml )  ,  has a compact design ,  and has a small footprint .
a micropipette that can be programmed by the user to aspirate a volume of liquid reagent or sample and dispense a series of aliquots in successive dispensing operations .
an spectrophotometer that is used to investigate chemical species that have one or more unpaired electrons ,  such as organic and inorganic free radicals or inorganic complexes possessing a transition metal ion .
a device that provides three - dimensional motion for biomedical applications  ( e .g . ,  gel trays )  .
a balance with weighing pan ( s )  inside a transparent enclosure that is used to measure mass to a very high degree of precision and accuracy .
a microscope that forms images of surfaces using a physical probe that scans the specimen .
a gel electrophoresis system that is used to separate very large molecules of dna .
a device that is used to perform paraffin embedding of tissue specimens .
an device that is used to determine the order of nucleotides in nucleic acid sequences .
a device that is used to acquire and image bead array data .
an pcr instrument that enables both detection and quantification of one or more specific sequences in a dna sample .
a device that is used for the warming of paraffin embedding medium .
a device that is used to sterilize equipment and supplies by subjecting them to high pressure steam at 121 c or more ,  typically for 15 to 20 minutes depending on the size of the load and the contents .
a device that is used to wash immunoassays in microwell strips and plates with professional accuracy .
a device that is used to isolate and collect nucleic acids  ( dna or rna )  for subsequent molecular analysis .
a microplate washer that is used for enzyme - linked immunosorbent assays  ( elisa )  .
a device that is used for the vacuum - driven processing of multiwell strips or plates ,  or spin columns .
a device that is used to isolate and collect dna for subsequent molecular analysis .
a pipetting system that has a plurality of tip fittings and is used for multi - well plate applications .
a device that is used to harvest cells from microplates and deposit samples on a filter mat .
a compact fluorometer that can be carried or moved with ease .
a device that moves charged particles through a medium by using an electric field induced by electrodes .
a measurement device for analyzing the structure of a material from the scattering pattern produced when a beam of radiation or particles  ( e .g .
a device that is used for the dissection of tissues under magnification .
a device that is used to fabricate glass micropipettes .
a confocal microscope that obtains high - resolution optical images with depth selectivity ,  in which a laser beam passes through a light source aperture and then is focused by an objective lens into a small  ( ideally diffraction limited )  focal volume within or on the surface of a specimen .
a microscope that uses optics and a charge - coupled device  ( ccd )  camera to output a digital image to a monitor .
a device or system for dehydrating and then chemically fixing electron microscopy samples at low temperatures in preparation for various treatments including embedding in resins .
a microinjection device that is used to measure very small volumes of liquids .
a device that is used to measure the ion currents across the membrane of excitable cells ,  such as neurons ,  while holding the membrane voltage at a set level .
a device that heats materials in a vacuum .
a device that is used to heat microscope slides .
an electrophoresis system that is used to separate ionic species by their charge and frictional forces and mass .
a high performance liquid chromatography instrument that employs temperature - dependent separation of dna containing mismatched base pairs from pcr - amplified dna fragments for chromatographic mutation analysis .
a gel electrophoresis system that is used to separate dna or rna molecules by size ,  achieved by moving negatively charged nucleic acid molecules through an agarose matrix with an electric field .
a measuring instrument that is used to determine the weight or mass of an object .
a tool for measuring adsorption of material onto planar metal  ( typically gold and silver )  surfaces or onto the surface of metal nanoparticles .
an device that is used to determine the order of amino acids in protein sequences .
a device that is used to generate x - rays .
a chromatography device that dissolves a mixture in liquid mobile phase to separate the analyte to be measured from other molecules in the mixture and allows it to be isolated
a reference substance role that is borne by a material entity with a known amount which is mixed into the evaluant of assays for quality control or data normalization purposes
a crid symbol used to distinguish one individual organism from another .
a reference substance role that is borne by a material entity used in a dye swap design experiment for quality control or data normalization purposes
a labeled specimen that is the output of a labeling process and has grain labeled nucleic acid for detection of the nucleic acid in future experiments .
a binding datum about the disposition of two or more material entities to form complexes which comes in the form of a scalar and unit that are utilized in equations that model the binding process
a 3d structure determination assay in which a complex of 2 or more material enties is characterized which provides information on their binding configuration .
an assay with the objective to characterize the disposition of two or more material entities to form a complex .
a process that results in the increase of cell numbers
a genetic transformation that renders a gene non - functional ,  e .g .
a genetic transformation that involves the insertion of a protein coding cdna sequence at a particular locus in an organism's chromosome .
a genetic transformation in which all ,  or part ,  of a chromosome from a donor replaces that of the recipient .
a material entity ,  organism or cell ,   that is the output of a genetic transformation process .
a genetic transformation which relies on the use of physical ,  electrical and chemical phenomena to introduce dna or rna into a cell
a material transformation objective aims to create genetically modified organism or cell
a genetic transformation that the modification of the genetic material  ( either coding or non - coding )  of an organism is caused by mutagenic compounds or irradiation .
a measurement datum that describes the structural orientation of a material entity in 3d space .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since planting ,  the process of placing a plant in media  ( e .g .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since hatching ,  the process of emergence from an egg .
an assay that determines the duration of part of the life of an organism ,  where the initial time point is the beginning of some transitional state  ( such as birth or when planted )  .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since egg laying ,  the process of the production of egg ( s )  by an organism .
an objective specification to check the accuracy or the quality of the results of an assay by comparison with independent results
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since germination ,  the process consisting of physiological and developmental changes by a seed ,  spore ,  pollen grain  ( microspore )  ,  or zygote that occur after release from dormancy ,  and encompassing events prior to and including the first visible indications of growth .
a study design in which checks the accuracy or the quality of the result of an assay  by comparing with reverse transcription pcr results
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since eclosion ,  the process of emergence of an adult insect from its pupa or cocoon .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since sowing ,  the process of placing a seed or spore in some media with the intention to invoke germination .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since coitus ,  the process of copulation that occurs during the process of sexual reproduction .
a study design in which the accuracy or the quality of the result of an assay is checked by comparing with real time pcr results
a time measurement datum that is the result of measurement of age of an organism
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since fertilization ,  the process of the union of gametes of opposite sexes during the process of sexual reproduction to form a zygote .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since birth ,  the process of emergence and separation of offspring from the mother .
an assay that determines the concentration of rna in a sample in which an rna strand is first reverse transcribed into its dna complement  ( complementary dna ,  or cdna )  using the enzyme reverse transcriptase ,  and the resulting cdna is amplified using traditional or real - time pcr .
the time it takes for 50% of a class of stochastic processes to occur .
a data item of paired values ,  one indicating the dose of a material ,  the other quantitating a measured effect at that dose .
a planned process in which a service provider performs a task  ( i .e .
the injection of immune effector material  ( antibodies ,  t cells or b cells )  into an organism so that the organisms immune system gains its  immune effector function to recognize specific antigens .
an objective specification to generate a population or type of organism within species that have some uniform behavioral ,  morphological ,  physiological ,  or genetic characteristics with similarly bred organisms .
an immunization in which an individual epitope is administered into a host organism .
an assay that determines the sequence of an rna molecule .
an assay that tests  if inducing an epitope specific immune response in an organism has an effect ,  such as the ability to prevent ,  treat or excarbate diseases in the organism .
an epitope protection experiment in which the ability of the epitope to protect the host from an infection is assessed .
half maximal effective concentration  ( ec50 )  is a scalar measurement datum corresponding to the concentration of a compound which induces a response halfway between the baseline and maximum after some specified exposure time .
a data item that states if two or more material entities have the disposition to form a complex ,  and if so ,  how strong that disposition is .
a binding datum that states that there is no significant disposition of two or more entities to form a complex
an epitope protection experiment in which the ability of the epitope to protect the host from developing tumors is assessed .
an efficacy of epitope intervention experiment that tests the efficacy of inducing an immune epitope response to prevent disease in a host .
an organism that is bred to have some uniform behavioral ,  morphological ,  physiological ,  or genetic characteristics with similarly bred organisms
an epitope protection from infectious challenge experiment in which the readout is a reduction in the presence of pathogens in the host compared to controls .
an assay that measures the presence or amount of an infectious agent in an evaluant
an efficacy of epitope intervention experiment that tests the ability of inducing an epitope immune response to increase the severity of an existing disease in the host .
an epitope protection experiment that determines the success of the epitope intervention based on increased survival of the host .
an epitope intervention experiment that tests the ability of inducing an epitope immune response to treat an existing disease  in the host .
half maximal inhibitory concentration  ( ic50 )  is a scalar measurement datum that measures the effectiveness of a compound to competitively inhibit a given process ,  and corresponds to the concentration of the compound at which it reaches half of its maximum inhibitory effect .
an administration in vivo to either actively or passively immunize an organism in order to induce a response against a specific immune epitope
a process of cytokine production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific transforming growth factor - beta production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
a study design that assesses the operator performance and relation to data consistency and quality .
an assay of epitope specific ip - 10 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a study design that detects genomic copy number variations using microarray technology .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 27 production by t cells .
a study design that is conducted entirely in a living organism ,  e .g .
a study design that classifies an individual or group of individuals on the basis of alleles ,  haplotypes ,  snps using high througput sequencing techniques .
a process of tolerance induction by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a study design in which the innate behavior of the organism is examined ,  e .g .
an assay of epitope specific transforming growth factor - beta production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a dna microarray used to detect polymorphisms in dna samples
a study design that compares samples from different cell components .
an assay of epitope specific granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
a process of macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 alpha production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a process of t cell activation resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 10 production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific transforming growth factor - beta production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a study design where all or part of an organism is removed and studied in vitro ,  e .g .
a process of type iv hypersensitivity by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a study design that tests different normalization procedures .
a t cell epitope specific perforin release assay that uses an intracellular material detection by flow cytometry assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 2 production by t cells that uses a cell culture analyte detection bioassay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 22 production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 8 production by t cells .
a process of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 1 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 10 production by t cells that uses a cell culture analyte detection bioassay .
a chip - chip assay in which immunoprecipitated chromatin is run on a snp array to detect polymorphism specific dna elements in the isolated chromatin
an assay of epitope specific rantes production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 1 beta production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a genetic characteristics information which is a part of genotype information that identifies the population of organisms
a study design in which some aspect of the organism's environmental history is studied ,  such as exposure to teratogen ,  radiation ,  climate etc .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 6 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
a t cell epitope specific helper activity assay that detects the ability of a t cell epitope to enhance an antibody response .
a t cell epitope equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses a surface plasmon resonance assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 5 production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific transforming growth factor - beta production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects rantes production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor production by t cells .
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to detect epigenetic modifications ,  such as dna methylation ,  histone modifications .
a transcription profiling by array assay that uses a tiling path array .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 22 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 21 production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 9 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a study design in which sequencing technology  ( e .g .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 6 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 4 production by t cells that uses a cell culture analyte detection bioassay .
a t cell epitope specific tumor necrosis factor production assay that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific monocyte chemotactic protein - 1 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 23 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a t cell epitope specific perforin release assay that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific tumor necrosis factor superfamily cytokine production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a genotyping assay that uses a high througput sequencer
an assay in which chromatin is immunoprecipitated and subsequently analyzed using a dna microarray to identify which parts of dna are part of the isolated chromatin
a process of t cell tolerance induction resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an intracellular material detection by flow cytometry assay  that measures epitope specific cytotoxic t cell degranulation
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 13 production by t cells .
a study design in which the array platform is compared ,  e .g .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 9 production by t cells .
a process of interleukin - 3 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 5 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a process of lymphotoxin a production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a process of interleukin - 1 alpha production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a study design which aims to identify protein and dna interactions using a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation and high throughput sequencing .
a study design that characterizes the association of transcripts and translation machinery .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 3 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 1 alpha production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a process of interleukin - 27 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a t cell epitope specific helper activity assay that detects the ability of a t cell epitope to enhance a t cell response .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects transforming growth factor - beta production by t cells .
a quantitative confidence value resulting from a multiple testing error correction method which adjusts the p - value used as input to control for type i error in the context of multiple pairwise tests
a dna methylation profiling assay in which the methylation state of dna is determined and can be compared between samples using sequencing based technology
a process of transforming growth factor - beta production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 12 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a t cell epitope dependent biological activity assay that detects cytotoxic t cell degranulation .
an assay of epitope specific transforming growth factor - beta production by t cells that uses a cell culture analyte detection bioassay .
an transcription profiling assay that determines an rna sequence by analyzing the transcibed regions of the genome and or to quantitate transcript abundance .
an assay of epitope specific tumor necrosis factor superfamily cytokine production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 5 production by t cells that uses a cell culture analyte detection bioassay .
a genotyping assay that uses an array
a process of interleukin - 16 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects production of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 1 by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 2 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a study design in which the methylation state of dna is determined and is compared between samples using array technology .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 22 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 16 production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific ip - 10 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay in which surface - bound ,  translationally competent ribosome complexes are used to generate a translation profile for mrna ,  which mrna may be a single molecular species ,  or a combination of species ,  including complex mixtures such as those found in the set of mrnas isolated from a cell or tissue .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 15 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 12 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a study design that is done in a test tube or a culture dish ,  e .g .
a study design in which experiment double stranded rna is synthesized with a sequence complementary to a gene ( s )  of interest and introduced into a cell or organism ,  where it is recognized as exogenous genetic material and activates the rnai pathway resulting in knockdown of the transcripts and providing a means to study downstream changes in gene expression .
an assay of epitope specific lymphotoxin a production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 5 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a study design that identifies forms and abundance of transcripts in the genome using microarray technology .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 17 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 15 production by t cells .
a study design in which the pathological condition of a part ,  organ ,  or system of an organism is studied .
a genotype information about an organism and includes information that there are no known modifications to the genetic background .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 17 production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 17 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 10 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 21 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 5 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 2 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 16 production by t cells that uses a cell culture analyte detection bioassay .
an assay of epitope specific macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 alpha production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay in which double stranded rna is synthesized with a sequence complementary to a gene ( s )  of interest and introduced into a cell or organism ,  where it is recognized as exogenous genetic material and activates the rnai pathway resulting in knockdown of the transcripts and providing a means to study downstream changes in gene expression .
a genetic characteristics information that is about the genetic material of an organism and minimally includes information about the genetic background and can in addition contain information about specific alleles ,  genetic modifications ,  etc .
a study design that examines the stability and / or decay of rna transcripts .
a dna microarray which has short fragments of nucleic acid immobilized on a substrate .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects ip - 10 production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 13 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a study design that assays differences between distinct species .
a t cell epitope 3d structure determination assay that uses an x - ray crystallography assay .
a study design which aims to examine the transcriptome of a biological sample by reverse transcription pcr  ( rt - pcr )  .
a process of t cell enhancement of b cell mediated immune response resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 1 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a process of interleukin - 21 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a t cell epitope qualitative binding assay that uses a cell - cell binding detection by flow cytometry assay .
an assay that detects proteins in a sample  ( quantified or otherwise analyzed )  ,  e .g .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - gamma production by t cells that uses a cell culture analyte detection bioassay .
a t cell epitope specific granzyme b release assay that uses an elispot assay .
a study design in which a microrna array is used to analyse the microrna component of the transcriptome .
an efficacy of t cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a tolerance induction intervention experiment .
an assay of epitope specific rantes production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 4 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects lymphotoxin a production by t cells .
a study design that assays events associated with development .
a study design in which the family history such as traits ,  characteristics ,  susceptibility to disease is studied .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 9 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to characterize the abundance of transcripts
a dna methylation profiling assay in which the methylation state of dna is determined and can be compared between samples using array technology
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 alpha production by t cells .
a process of granulocyte colony stimulating factor production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay that analyses the microrna component of the transcriptome using a microrna array .
a study design in which some aspects of the experiment is quality controlled for the purposes of quality assurance .
a study design that the organism's clinical history of diagnosis ,  treatments ,  e .g .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 4 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor production by t cells that uses a cell culture analyte detection bioassay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 21 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific monocyte chemotactic protein - 1 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific monocyte chemotactic protein - 1 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 4 production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 21 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an efficacy of t cell epitope intervention experiment that detects epitope specific type iv hypersensitivity .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 13 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - gamma production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a process of tumor necrosis factor superfamily cytokine production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a genetic alteration information that about one of two or more alternative forms of a gene or marker sequence and differing from other alleles at one or more mutational sites based on sequence .
a t cell epitope specific tumor necrosis factor production assay that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 17 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - beta production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a study design in which a modification of the transcriptome ,  proteome  ( not genome )  is made ,  for example rnai ,  antibody targeting .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 8 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 6 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a transcription profiling assay that uses reverse transcription pcr  ( rt - pcr )  .
a process of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 4 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 23 production by t cells .
a genetic characteristics information that is about known changes or the lack thereof from the genetic background ,  including allele information ,  duplication ,  insertion ,  deletion ,  etc .
a study design that aims to study the processes that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
a process of rantes production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 10 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific tumor necrosis factor superfamily cytokine production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an allele information that is about the allele found most frequently in natural populations ,  or in standard laboratory stocks for a given organism .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 4 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a process of granzyme b production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a process of interleukin - 8 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a study design in which the response of an organism ( s )  to injury or damage is studied .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 3 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a study design that compares samples from live and dead organisms .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 4 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - gamma production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 18 production by t cells .
a process of interleukin - 23 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 27 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific ip - 10 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 3 production by t cells that uses a cell culture analyte detection bioassay .
an assay of epitope specific tumor necrosis factor superfamily cytokine production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a process of monocyte chemotactic protein - 1 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a study design that classifies an individual or group of individuals on the basis of alleles ,  haplotypes ,  snps using microarray technology .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 1 alpha production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 6 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interferon - beta production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 12 production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific killing assay that uses an in vivo cell mediated cell killing assay .
an assay that measures changes in dna sequence copy number using a microarray .
a process of cytotoxic t cell degranulation resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 23 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a study design in which the response of an organism ( s )  to the stress or stimulus is studied ,  e .g .
an assay of epitope specific granulocyte colony stimulating factor production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a sequence feature identification objective that aims to characterize the interactions between protein and dna which includes identification of transcription factor binding sites .
a process of interleukin - 22 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects tumor necrosis factor superfamily cytokine production by t cells .
a study design where different protocols or protocol parameters are compared aims to find an optimized protocol
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 2 production by t cells that uses a promoter activity detection by reporter gene assay .
a study design which aims to identify protein binding sites in genomic dna by a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation and dna microarray  ( chip )  assays .
a data item that is about genetic material including polymorphisms ,  disease alleles ,  and haplotypes .
an assay of epitope specific macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 alpha production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 3 production by t cells .
a t cell epitope dependent biological activity assay that detects t cell activation .
a study design where differences in genetic imprinting of maternally -  and paternally - inherited chromosomes  ( e .g . ,  due to in vivo differences in chemical modification and / or chromatin structure )  are compared .
a study design that assays events that occur in relation to the cell cycle ,  which is the period between the formation of a cell ,  by division of its mother cell and the time when the cell itself divides to form two daughter cells .
a study design in which surface - bound ,  translationally competent ribosome complexes are used to generate a translation profile for mrna ,  where mrna may be a single molecular species ,  or a combination of species ,  including complex mixtures such as those found in the set of mrnas isolated from a cell or tissue .
a study design that compares cells of different type ,  for example different cell lines .
an assay of epitope specific rantes production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 6 production by t cells that uses a cell culture analyte detection bioassay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interferon - gamma production by t cells .
a process of interleukin - 9 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific tumor necrosis factor superfamily cytokine production by t cells that detects tumor necrosis factor production .
a study design which aims to identify protein binding sites in genomic dna by a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation and tiling microarray  ( chip )  assays .
a study design that examines the relationship between the size of the administered dose and the extent of the response .
a chip - chip assay in which immunoprecipitated chromatin is run on a tiling array that covers stretches of dna to to detect which elements in those stretches are present in the isolated chromatin
a process of helper t cell enhancement of t cell mediated immune response resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a process of interferon - beta production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a study design that compares tissues ,  regions ,  organs within or between organisms
a t cell epitope specific granzyme b release assay that uses an intracellular material detection by flow cytometry assay .
a study design that investigates protein binding sites on nucleic acids .
a study design that assays differences associated with an organism's sex ,  gender or mating type .
a study design in which gene expression on a genome - wide basis is evaluated ,  without bias toward coding or noncoding regions ,  using tiling arrays containing oligonucleotides that are either overlapping or spaced at regular intervals .
a study design that assays events associated with cell development or differentiation .
a study design that identifies forms and abundance of transcripts in the genome .
a study design that identifies locations and members of operons in a genome .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - gamma production by t cells that uses a radio immuno assay .
a study design in which the methylation state of dna is determined and is compared between samples using high throughput sequencing technology .
a t cell epitope specific cytotoxic t cell degranulation assay that detects granzyme b release by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 9 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 gamma production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a process of chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 9 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a study design in which all specimens are compared to every other specimen .
a study design in which proteins in a sample are detected ,  quantified or otherwise analysed ,  through an array - based technology .
a quantitative confidence value that measures the minimum false discovery rate that is incurred when calling that test significant .
a study design that classifies an individual or group of individuals on the basis of alleles ,  haplotypes ,  snps .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 2 production by t cells .
a process of interleukin - 15 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a process of macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 gamma production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a study design where genotype ,  haplotype ,  or other individual genetic characteristics are compared .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 1 beta production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 4 production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 6 production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific tumor necrosis factor production assay that uses a cell culture analyte detection bioassay .
an assay of epitope specific lymphotoxin a production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a study design in which an infective agent such as a bacterium ,  virus ,  protozoan ,  fungus etc .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 5 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 gamma production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 8 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 9 production by t cells .
a study design in which an organism ( s )  is studied that has had genetic material removed ,  rearranged ,  mutagenized or added ,  such as in a knock out .
a t cell epitope specific granzyme b release assay that uses an elisa .
a process of ip - 10 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a transcription profiling assay that uses array technology .
a study design that assays differences between multiple strains ,  cultivars ,  serovars ,  isolates ,  lines from organisms of a single species .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects monocyte chemotactic protein - 1 production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 12 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an efficacy of t cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a disease exacerbation in vivo intervention experiment .
a specimen primarily composed of a cell or cells collected from a multicellular organism or a cell culture .
a mhc ligand processing and presentation assay in which the presence of a specific ligand in an eluate is detected using the response of t cells that are known to be monospecific for that ligand as a readout .
a process of interleukin - 17f production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an epitope specific immune intervention in which the induced response targets a t cell epitope
a specimen for which it is known whether it has been subjected to storage of a specified type .
a t cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on tumor burden .
a lowess transformation where a potentially different normalization curve is generated and used for two or more groups  ( delineated by some criteria )  ;  criteria could include blocks  ( e .g .
a t cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on pathogen burden .
a binding assay in which a collection of phages expressing a library of different peptides or protein fragnments is used to infect cells ,  followed by screening for cells that bind a protein of interest ,  and identifiying the sequence of infecting phages to determine a suitable binding partner .
a data transformation of normalizing ratio data by using a locally weighted polynomial regression  ( typically after a log transformation )  .
a mhc ligand processing and presentation assay that uses a mass spectrometry assay to identify eluted ligands
a specimen that derives from an anatomical part or substance arising from an organism .
phage display library panning is a process in which a diverse collection of phages encoding peptides or proteins are screened and the ones encoding active peptides / proteins are selected in an iterative process similar to natural selection . \ n
a lowess transformation where the same normalization curve is used for all members of the data set ;  e .g .
an assay of epitope specifictransforming growth factor - beta production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a planned process that collects cells from culture .
a t cell epitope dependent biological activity determination assay that uses an in vivo intervention experiment .
a mixture containing mhc molecules that was purified to remove non - mhc molecular entities .
is the disposition borne by a material entity that is realized in a process of being bound in the antigen binding grove of an mhc protein complex .
an epitope specific immune intervention in which the induced response targets a b cell epitope
an efficacy of epitope intervention experiment that tests the ability of the intervention to decrease an existing immune response
a mass spectrometry of mhc ligands assay that identifies eluted ligands from cell bound mhc .
an assay of epitope specific granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a binding assay that uses radioactivity detection as an indicator of binding .
a t cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on survival .
a cell bound mhc binding assay that uses a t cell epitope recognition assay .
an enzymatic amplification which amplifies nucleic acid sequence by making many copies off the same template .
a t cell epitope dependent biological activity assay that detects the ability of epitope specific helper t cells to enhance either b cell or t cell adaptive immune response function .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 22 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytotoxic t cell degranulation assay that detects perforin release by t cells .
a growth environment pertaining to the atmospheric conditions that is used to culture or grow an organism .
a binding assay that uses fluorescence detection as an indicator of binding
a mhc ligand processing and presentation assay in which an hpl chromatography is run to separate an input mixture of ligands eluted from mhc into fractions .
an assay in which a material's fluorescence is determined .
the production of perforin ,  an immune mediator molecule involved in t cell degranulation ,   resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
the process in which a ligand binds to an mhc molecule to form a stable complex
a planned process that separates and isolates tissues for surgical purposes ,  or for the analysis or study of their structures .
a planned process to separate a material entity into different compositions of which one or more have are purified fractions that contain higher concentration of a desired component ,  while others contain impurities and are not of interest
a specimen that has been established to be taken from a live  ( pre - mortem )  or dead  ( post - mortem )  organism .
an efficacy of t cell epitope intervention experiment that detects a decrease in disease .
a time measurement datum when an observation is made or a sample is taken from a material as measured from some reference point .
a mhc ligand processing and presentation assay that uses edman degradation to identify the eluted ligands
a mass spectrometry of mhc ligands that identifies eluted ligands from secreted mhc .
a disposition of a material entity to be presented by mhc molecules on the cell surface as a result of antigen processing by an antigen presenting cell .
a t cell epitope specific interleukin - 17a production assay that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a purified mhc binding assay that uses radioactivity detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
a scalar measurement datum that indicates the lowest concentration at which a specific compound significantly inhibits a process from occurring compared to in the absence of the compound .
a material processing service in which a service provider makes physical modifications to a specified input material ,  such that at least one of the specified outputs of this process is a modified version of a specified input material .
a cell lysate mhc ligand binding half maximal effective concentration  ( ec50 )  determination assay that uses radioactivity detection to measure direct ligand binding .
a cell bound mhc ligand binding half maximal inhibitory concentration  ( ic50 )  determination assay that uses radioactivity detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
a process of tumor necrosis factor  ( ligand )  superfamily member 11 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a cell lysate mhc binding assay that uses fluorescence detection to detect direct binding .
a cell bound mhc ligand binding half maximal inhibitory concentration  ( ic50 )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
an assay of epitope specific granulocyte colony stimulating factor production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an algorithm used to assemble individual sequence reads into larger contiguous sequences  ( contigs )  .
a t cell epitope specific interleukin - 17f production assay that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a cell bound mhc ligand binding equilibrium association constant  ( ka )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to detect direct binding .
a 3d structural organization datum capturing the results of x - ray crystallography or nmr experiment that is formatted as specified by the protein databank  ( http: /  / www .wwpdb .org / docs .html )  .
a process of interleukin - 17a production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a service  in which the service provider assists the consumer in activities directly or indirectly associated with the production and analysis of experimental research data .
a service which has a material entity as specified input and / or specified output .
a service in which a service consumer provides some input data and a service provider transforms ,  models ,  or interprets the input data and returns this generated data as output .
a service that has some information content entity as input and output .
a purified mhc ligand half life of binding determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to measure direct ligand binding .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 9 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a storage service in which a service consumer provides data as input which a service provider stores and returns as output in its original form .
a purified mhc binding assay that uses fluorescence detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
a process of interleukin - 7 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a binding constant defined as the ratio of kon over koff  ( on - rate of binding divided by off - rate ) 
a purified mhc ligand binding equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
a service  in which the service provider offers educational materials or events ,  such as courses ,  workshops or graduate programs ,  to the service consumer .
a cell bound mhc ligand binding equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
an assay that identifies an mhc ligand using a t cell response assay as a readout
a purified mhc ligand binding on rate  ( kon )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to measure direct ligand binding .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 13 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a purified mhc ligand binding equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to measure direct ligand binding and provides ec50 values determined under assay conditions where the ec50 approximates a kd value .
a cell lysate mhc ligand binding equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses radioactivity detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
an assay of epitope specific macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 alpha production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
interpreting data from assays that evaluate the qualities or dispositions inhering in an organism or organism part and comparing it to data from other organisms to make a conclusion about a phenotypic difference
a service in which a service consumer provides some input material and a service provider performs some analysis of this material to generate data that is returned to the service consumer .
a binding constant defined as the ratio of koff over kon  ( off - rate of binding divided by on - rate ) 
a cell bound mhc ligand binding equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses radioactivity detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
a mhc binding qualitative binding to ligand assay measuring mhc ligand binding using mhc present on cells .
a service in which a service consumer receives the right to use a resource  ( instrument ,  database ,  software ,  etc )  that is owned or managed by a service provider .
a t cell epitope specific tumor necrosis factor  ( ligand )  superfamily member 11 production assay that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a mhc:ligand binding assay that measures a binding constant .
a scalar measurement datum that represents the number of events occuring over a time interval
a mhc binding qualitative binding to ligand assay using mhc in a purified mhc molecule preparation .
a cell lysate mhc binding assay that uses radioactivity detection to detect direct binding .
a storage service in which a service consumer provides some material as input which a service provider stores and returns as output .
a cell bound mhc ligand half life of binding determination assay that uses radioactivity detection to measure direct ligand binding .
a cell bound mhc ligand half life of binding determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to measure direct ligand binding .
an assay that measures the affinity of a ligand to a mhc in a cell lysate preparation and that quantifies the affinity with a binding constant .
a cell bound mhc ligand binding half maximal effective concentration  ( ec50 )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to measure direct ligand binding .
a t cell epitope specific interleukin - 17f production assay that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a service in which a service provider makes physical changes to a specified input material entity with the objective of producing a new material entity form input materials ,  or modifying the input material entity ,  and returning this as output to the service consumer .
a purified mhc ligand binding equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses radioactivity detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation and provides ic50 values determined under assay conditions where the ic50 approximates a kd value .
a cell lysate mhc ligand half life of binding determination assay that uses radioactivity detection to measure direct ligand binding .
a binding datum that specifies the temperature at which half of the binding partners are forming a complex and the other half are unbound .
a cell lysate mhc ligand binding off rate measurement  ( koff )  determination assay that uses radioactivity detection to measure direct ligand binding .
a purified mhc ligand binding half maximal inhibitory concentration  ( ic50 )  determination assay that uses radioactivity detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
a purified mhc ligand binding off rate measurement  ( koff )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to measure direct ligand binding .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects vascular endothelial growth factor production by t cells .
a measurement of an ic50 value under specific assay conditions approximates kd ,  namely the binding reaction is at an equilibrium ,  there is a single population of sites on the receptor that competitor and ligand are binding to ,  and the concentration of the receptor must be much less than the kd for the competitor and the ligand .
an assay that measures the affinity of a ligand to mhc moleculs bound to the cell surface and that quantifies the affinity with a binding constant .
a sequence data item that is about the primary structure of dna
competitive inhibition of binding assay measuring mhc ligand binding by radioactivity detection using mhc derived from a cell lysate
interpreting data from assays that evaluate the qualities or dispositions inhering in an organism or organism part and comparing it to data from other organisms that have a defined genetic difference ,  and assigning a property to the product of the targeted gene as a result .
an assay that measures the affinity of a ligand to a purified mhc complex preparation and that quantifies the affinity with a binding constant .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 22 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific vascular endothelial growth factor production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a mhc binding qualitative binding to ligand assay using mhc in a cell lysate .
a service in which a service provider facilitates the transport of some material entity to a specified destination for the service consumer .
a measurement of an ec50 value under specific assay conditions approximates kd ,  namely the binding reaction is at an equilibrium ,   and the concentration of the receptor must be much less than the kd for the ligand .
direct binding assay measuring mhc ligand binding using mhc derived from a cell
a half life datum of the time it takes for 50% of bound complexes in an ensemble to disassociate in absence of re - association .
a purified mhc binding assay that uses a phage display binding assay to measure direct ligand binding .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 7 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a purified mhc ligand half life of binding determination assay that uses radioactivity detection to measure direct ligand binding .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interleukin - 7 production by t cells .
the process of material entities forming complexes .
a t cell epitope specific interleukin - 17a production assay that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a purified mhc binding assay that uses fluorescence detection to measure direct ligand binding .
a binding assay that measures the formation or disassociation of a complex of 2 material entities directly without use of a competitve ligand .
a purified mhc ligand binding half maximal effective concentration  ( ec50 )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to measure direct ligand binding .
a binding assay that detects the inhibition of binding between 2 material entities known to form a complex by the addition of a third material entity of interest .
a cell bound mhc binding assay that uses fluorescence to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation
a mhc binding 3d structure determination of mhc molecule:epitope complex assay that uses an x - ray crystallography assay .
a 3d structural organization datum that is part of a pdb file and has a specific chain identifier that identifies the entire information on a subset of the material entities
a cell bound mhc ligand binding half maximal inhibitory concentration  ( ic50 )  determination assay that uses a t cell epitope recognition assay to measure ligand binding .
a maintenance service in which a service provider actively manages or maintains data or a database for the service consumer .
a cell bound mhc binding assay that uses radioactivity detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects granulocyte colony stimulating factor production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 21 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a cell bound mhc binding assay that uses radioactivity detection to detect direct binding .
a rate measurement datum of how quickly bound complexes disassociate
a purified mhc binding assay that uses fluorescence detection to measure the 50% dissociation of binding temperature of direct ligand binding .
a rate measurement datum of how quickly bound complexes form
a cell bound mhc binding assay that uses fluorescence detection to detect direct binding .
an assay of epitope specific tumor necrosis factor  ( ligand )  superfamily member 11 production by t cells that detects tumor necrosis factor production .
a purified mhc binding assay that uses radioactivity detection to measure direct ligand binding .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 8 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 23 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
direct binding assay measuring mhc ligand binding using mhc derived from a purified mhc molecule preparation
a process of vascular endothelial growth factor production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a purified mhc ligand binding half maximal inhibitory concentration  ( ic50 )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
a crid symbol uniquely indentifies the submitted genebank sequence record .
a textual entity that describes an investigation .
a crid symbol denotes a specimen and used to distinguish one specimen from another in an investigation .
a crid symbol that is sufficient to look up a citation from the pubmed ,  a literature database of life sciences and biomedical information .
an average value of the depth of sequence coverage based both on external  ( e .g .
a time measurement datum that is the measure of the time when the specimens are collected .
a measurement datum that is the measure of the latitude coordinate of a site .
a measurement datum that is the measure of the longitude coordinate of a site .
a textual entity that denotes an investigation .
a biological feature identification objective to identify the organism species in a specimen .
an assay that identifies the organism species in a specimen .
an algorithm used to identify sequence features  ( e .g .
an organization that  is one of the internet - based research centers established and funded by niaid  ( the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases )  .
a textual entity that denotes a geographic location that is a site or part of a site that is identified as a country in the political geography .
a crid symbol used to identify an investigation .
a crid symbol used to identify a grant .
an analyte assay that uses a biomaterial's preferential affinity for either the mobile phase or the stationary phase to separate it from other materials and thereby detect its presence in an input material .
an imaging assay in which an electrons are used to probe the density ,  shape and composition of an input material which are detected in an electron microscope and utilized to produce an image of the material .
a assay detecting a molecular label assay in which the label is attached to an antibody so that substances are marked based on the antibody's binding specificity .
a material entity that is generated by a purification process in which an input material is separated to obtain a fraction with a higher concentration of a desired component
a binding assay in which the heat generated or absorbed during a binding event is measured ,  which allows determination of binding constants ,  reaction stoichiometry ,  enthalpy and entropy .
a binding assay in which affinity is measured by detecting a change in fluorescence  ( usually quenching )  that occurs upon binding of the antibody to the ligand .
a plan specification of organization a to give money to organization b so that b conducts investigations .
a b cell epitope equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  assay that provides ic50 values determined under assay conditions where the ic50 approximates a kd value using a b cell epitope antigen inhibition of binding assay .
a b cell epitope specific activation of additional immune response in vitro assay that detects histamine release .
a b cell epitope dependent biological activity determination assay that detects antigen activation .
a b cell epitope specific activation of additional immune response in vitro assay that detects complement - dependent cytotoxicity .
a b cell epitope specific activation of additional immune response in vitro assay that detects antibody - dependent cellular cytotoxicity .
a b cell epitope dependent biological activity determination assay that detects neutralization of the antigen .
a b cell epitope specific activation of additional immune response in vitro assay that detects opsonization .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses a calorimetric binding assay .
a b cell epitope 3d structure determination assay that uses an electron microscopy imaging assay .
a b cell epitope 3d structure determination assay that uses a nuclear magnetic resonance assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses an antibody cross - blocking assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses a radio immuno assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses an immunoblot assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses a surface plasmon resonance assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses an immuno staining assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses an immunoprecipitation assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses a mass spectrometry assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses a phage display binding assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses an electron microscopy imaging assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses an enzyme - linked immunospot assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses a flow cytometry assay .
a t cell epitope specific granzyme a release assay that uses an intracellular material detection by flow cytometry assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses an analytical chromatography assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses a nuclear magnetic resonance assay .
a t cell epitope specific granulysin release assay that uses an elisa .
a t cell epitope specific granulysin release assay that uses an intracellular material detection by flow cytometry assay .
a cell bound mhc ligand binding off rate measurement  ( koff )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to measure direct ligand binding .
a cell bound mhc ligand binding on rate  ( kon )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to measure direct ligand binding .
a purified mhc ligand binding equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses fluorescence detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation and provides ic50 values determined under assay conditions where the ic50 approximates a kd value .
a binding assay that screens membrane soluble proteins by fusion of two integral membrane proteins  ( bait and prey )  to two different ubiquitin moieties .
an assay that measures protein - protein interactions by separating target proteins on an sds - page gel ,  transfering them to a solid substrate ,  hybridizing with a protein probe and visualizing bound proteins using a probe - directed antibody .
an assay that determines the presence and estimates abundance of transcript species by first creating an homo or heteroduplex by adding a specific ,  complementary sequence to the sequence of interest and then exposing the mixture of ribonuclease ,  which will degrade only single stranded molecules .
an assay that measures information about protein - dna or protein - rna interactions using gel electrophoresis and relying on the fact the molecular interactions will cause the heterodimer to be retarded on the gel when compared to controls corresponding to protein extract alone and protein extract  +  neutral nucleic acid .
an assay which transiently disrupts gene transcripts by expressing antisense rna constructs or delivering rna interfering molecules in cells .
a transcription profiling assay that is performed using a very low amount  ( nanogram scale )  of mrna samples using cap analysis gene expression  ( cage )  .
a transcription profiling assay which measures rna transcript abundances in biological samples by extracting 5' ends of capped transcripts ,  rtpcr and sequence those .
a t cell epitope specific interleukin - 17a production assay that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 7 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a process of granulysin production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a process of granzyme a production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay that detects protein protein interactions and protein dna interactions by testing for physical interactions  ( such as binding )  between two proteins or a single protein and a dna molecule ,  respectively .
a binding assay that detects interacting proteins for a targeted domain where mammalian guanyl nucleotide exchange factor  ( gef )  sos is recruited to the saccharomyces cerevisiae plasma membrane harboring a temperature - sensitive ras gef ,  cdc25 - 2 ,  allowing growth at the nonpermissive temperature using the sos recruitment system ,  a kind of yeast 2 hybrid system .
an assay that determines protein dna interactions using a single fusion protein in which the activating domain is linked directly to the binding domain .
an assay that identifies the sequence - specific target site of a dna - binding domain .
an in - situ hybridization assay that uses fluorescence to detect chromosomal integrity
an assay that uses initial modification of dna by sodium bisulfite ,  converting all unmethylated ,  but not methylated ,  cytosines to uracil ,  and subsequent amplification with primers specific for methylated versus unmethylated dna .
an assay that estimates genome - wide dna methylation and measures methylation of dna sequences .
an assay that localizes a specific dna or rna sequence within a portion or section of tissue using artificially induced nucleic hybridization .
a role inhering in a person who represents an institution ,  organization ,  or service provider and realized when communication is directed at them about the entity they represent .
an assay which uses compound cytochalasin  ( chebi: 23528 )  to block actin polymerization - dependent cell motility  ( go:0070358 )  and actin filament polymerization  ( go:0030041 )  .
is an objective specification which aims to discover molecular function realized by a molecular entity
is an objective specification which aims to discover cellular structure properties
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on reduction of fertility .
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a tolerance induction intervention experiment .
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that detects a hypersensitivity response by monitoring skin reactions .
a b cell epitope specific activation of additional immune response in vitro assay that detects agglutination .
a b cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on survival .
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that detects a decrease in disease .
a b cell epitope dependent biological activity determination assay that uses an in vivo intervention experiment .
a competitive inhibition of binding assay in which two antibodies that are known to bind the same antigen are tested for the ability of one antibody to inhibit binding of the other antibody to the antigen ,  thereby determining if they have overlapping binding sites .
an analyte assay in which an input material is mixed with antibodies and bound antigen:antibody complexes are separated out using immunoprecipitation .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that measures the ability of an antigen to inhibit antibody binding to a known ligand .
a process of an immunoglobulin complex binding to a material entity at the immunoglobulin complementarity determining region  ( cdr )  .
a b cell epitope recognition assay that detects qualitative binding .
a b cell epitope dependent biological activity determination assay that detects secondary in vitro activity .
a b cell epitope dependent biological activity determination assay that detects inhibition of the antibody's activity by the antigen .
a b cell epitope recognition assay that detects biological activity .
the release of histamine by cells stimulated through their fc receptors which are loaded with immunoglobulins .
a b cell epitope binding constant determination assay that measures the dissociation constant kd .
a b cell epitope recognition assay that quantitavely characterizes the binding of an antibody  /  bcr with a ligand by determining a binding constant .
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment .
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a disease exacerbation in vivo intervention experiment .
a direct binding assay using a assay
opsonization resulting from antibody binding to epitope
immunoglobulin - mediated neutralization resulting from antibody binding to epitope
a competitive inhibition of binding assay using a assay
complement - dependent cytotoxicity resulting from antibody binding to epitope
antibody - dependent cellular cytotoxicity resulting from antibody binding to epitope
a b cell epitope binding constant determination assay that measures the on rate .
a b cell epitope binding constant determination assay that measures the association constant ka .
immune complex formation resulting from antibody binding to epitope
a b cell epitope recognition assay that characterizes the 3d structure of an antibody  /  bcr with a ligand .
hypersensitivity resulting from antibody binding to epitope
a b cell epitope binding constant determination assay that measures the off rate .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses a viral hemagglutination inhibition assay .
histamine secretion mediated by immunoglobulin resulting from antibody binding to epitope
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses an antibody binding detection by fluorescence quenching .
a b cell epitope equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses a radio immuno assay .
a b cell epitope equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay .
a b cell epitope equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses an antibody binding detection by fluorescence quenching assay .
a b cell epitope equilibrium association constant  ( ka )  determination assay that uses a surface plasmon resonance assay .
a b cell epitope equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses a surface plasmon resonance assay .
a b cell epitope equilibrium association constant  ( ka )  determination assay that uses an antibody binding detection by fluorescence quenching assay .
a b cell epitope equilibrium association constant  ( ka )  determination assay that uses a calorimetric binding assay .
a b cell epitope equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses a calorimetric binding assay .
a b cell epitope equilibrium association constant  ( ka )  determination assay that uses an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay .
a b cell epitope equilibrium association constant  ( ka )  determination assay that uses a radio immuno assay .
a x - ray crystallography assay measuring epitope specfic antibody binding event in angstroms
a b cell epitope 3d structure determination assay that uses an x - ray crystallography assay .
a b cell epitope binding off rate measurement  ( koff )  determination assay that uses a surface plasmon resonance assay .
a b cell epitope binding off rate measurement  ( koff )  determination assay that uses an antibody binding detection by fluorescence quenching assay .
a b cell epitope on rate measurement  ( kon )  determination assay that uses a surface plasmon resonance assay .
a b cell epitope on rate measurement  ( kon )  determination assay that uses an antibody binding detection by fluorescence quenching assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 1 beta production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 1 alpha production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 1 alpha production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 1 alpha production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 1 alpha production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - beta production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - beta production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific granulocyte colony stimulating factor production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - beta production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific granulocyte colony stimulating factor production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific granulocyte colony stimulating factor production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 9 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a directive information entity which defines and states a principle of standard by which selection process may take place .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 9 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 9 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 4 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 12 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 13 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 16 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 21 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 22 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 4 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 4 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific vascular endothelial growth factor production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 19 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 1 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an investigation agent role borne by a person or organization which  \ nis realized in a specimen collection process .
an assay of epitope specific vascular endothelial growth factor production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific vascular endothelial growth factor production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 17 production by t cells that detects interleukin - 17f production .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 17 production by t cells that detects interleukin - 17a production .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 21 production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 19 production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 12 production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 22 production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 16 production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 13 production by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 alpha production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 gamma production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 gamma production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific monocyte chemotactic protein - 1 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific monocyte chemotactic protein - 1 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 gamma production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 gamma production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific vascular endothelial growth factor production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific tumor necrosis factor superfamily cytokine production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific rantes production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific rantes production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific lymphotoxin a production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific macrophage inflammatory protein - 1 alpha production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific lymphotoxin a production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific lymphotoxin a production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific ip - 10 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific ip - 10 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 9 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 9 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 9 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 8 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 8 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 3 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 7 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 7 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 7 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 27 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 3 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 3 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytotoxic t cell degranulation assay that detects granzyme a release by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytotoxic t cell degranulation assay that detects granulysin release by t cells .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 27 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 23 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 27 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 27 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 18 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a process of chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 13 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 18 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
a process of chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 12 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a process of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 22 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a process of chemokine  ( c - x - c motif )  ligand 16 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 22 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 23 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
a process of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 21 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 18 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a process of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 19 production by t cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 21 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 1 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 1 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 1 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
a t cell epitope specific interleukin - 17f production assay that uses an elispot .
a t cell epitope specific interleukin - 17f production assay that uses an elisa .
a t cell epitope specific interleukin - 17f production assay that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a t cell epitope specific interleukin - 17a production assay that uses an elispot .
a planned process in which new information is inferred from existing information .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 18 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 16 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 16 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 16 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 16 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a t cell epitope specific interleukin - 17a production assay that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 1 beta production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 1 beta production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 15 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 12 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 15 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 15 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay that incorporates chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  - based enrichment ,  chromatin proximity ligation ,  paired - end tags ,  and high - throughput sequencing to determine de novo long - range chromatin interactions genome - wide .
an assay that incorporates paired - end tags and sequencing technology to determine structural variants .
a transcription profiling assay that determines transcripts ,  gene structures ,  and gene expressions using paired - end tags and sequencing technology .
a transcription profiling identification objective that aims to characterize the transcription start sites of genes .
a library preparation that results in the creation of a library of the 5' and 3' ends of dna or cdna fragments using adaptors and endonucleases .
an assay that identifies the location of regulatory regions ,  based on the genome - wide sequencing of regions super sensitive to cleavage by dnase i .
a sequence feature identification objective that aims to characterize the interactions between protein and rna .
an analyte assay that combines immunoprecipitation of an rna - binding protein and rna - seq to identify mrnas associated with selected rna binding proteins  ( rbps )  .
an analyte assay that employs uv - crosslinking between rna and a protein ,  followed by immunoprecipitation with antibodies for the protein ,  fragmentation ,  and high - throughput screening for rna sequences that interact with a particular rna - binding protein .
an assay to determine the sequences of those dna regions in the genome associated with regulatory activity .
an assay that identifies unmethylated cpgs using methylation sensitive restriction enzymes to fragment dna .
a bisulfite sequencing assay that identifies genomic methylation patterns using a bisulfite based protocol that enriches cg - rich parts of the genome .
a bisulfite sequencing assay that identifies methylated cytosines across the genome using high throughput sequencing .
an transcription profiling assay that identifies transcription start sites  ( tss )  ,  the quantification of their expression and the characterization of their transcripts using high throughput sequencing .
a device made to be used in an analyte assay for immobilization of substances that bind the analyte at regular spatial positions on a surface .
a cultured cell that has been passaged or derives from a cell that has been passaged in culture .
a process whereby a new type of cell line is created ,  either through passaging of a primary cell culture to relative genetic stability and compositional homogeneity ,  or through some experimental modification of an existing cell line to produce a new line with novel characteristics   ( e .g .
a nucleic acid macromolecule that is part of a cell or virion and is inherited from an immediate ancestor ,  or incorporated in a manner that it has the disposition to be replicated and inherited by descendants .
an array that consists of 3 - micron silica beads that self assemble in microwells on either of two materials: fiber optic bundles or planar silica slides .
a beadchip made for an analyte assay that generates information about dna methylation .
a flow cytometer analyzer manifactured by becton ans dickinson .
a data transformation that assembles two or more individual sequence reads into contiguous sequences  ( i .e . ,  contigs )  .
a data item that is the number of times that a given process failed ,  as an integer
random access memory size is a scalar measurement datum which denotes the amount of physical memory know as random access memory present of a computer or required by a computational process or data transformation
a cultured cell population comprised of a single type of immune system cell
a material entity comprised of cultured cells and the media in which they are being propagated or stored .
random - access memory  ( ram )  is a form of computer data storage .
an establishing cell culture process whereby cells explanted directly from an organismal source or specimen ,  and placed in culture for maintenance or propagation as a primary cell culture
a biological or chemical entity that bears a reagent role in virtue of it being intended for application in a scientific technique  to participate in  ( or have molecular parts that participate in )  a chemical reaction that facilitates the generation of data about some distinct entity ,  or the generation of some distinct material specified output .
an organization that is the affiliation of the principal investigator providing the specimens for the investigation
an organization that is the affiliation of the person who is contact representative of a bioinformatics resource center
a plan specification which specifies the type of material that will be assayed in an investigation .
a person who is the contact representative of a bioinformatics resource center
a plan specification which specifies the scope of an investigation based on the heterogeneity of organisms or type of material that are the specified input of specimen collection .
an organization that provides a service to store and distribute specimens
an email address of the person who is contact representative of a bioinformatics resource center
a person who is the contact representative at the sequencing facility
a person who is a principal investigator and provides the specimen
an email address of the person collecting the specimen
an organization that provides sequence determination service
an objective specification which indicates the type of data that will be generated and submitted to a database .
an organization that is the affiliation of the person collecting the specimen
an email address of the contact representative at the sequencing facility
a person who collects the specimen
a plan specification which indicates the assay type used to obtain data .
an organization that is the affiliation of the contact representative at the sequencing facility
a textual entity that is about any of the aspects of an investigation worth noting
a plan specification which specifies how the material enrichment procedure will influence the scale ,  or type of material that will be assayed in the specimen .
a specimen identifier which is assigned by a specimen repository
a specimen identifier which is assigned by a sequencing facility
a sample preparation for assay that preparation of nucleic acids for a sequencing assay
an email address of the principal investigator providing the specimens for the investigation
a service provides sequencing service which is the realization of some sequencing such as rna and dna sequencing in which the service provider role is realized .
a cultured cell population that is derived through one or more passages in culture .
an immortal cell line derived from a transformed cell that was part of a malignant tumor .
a genetic transformation of a cell line cell with transgenic constructs intended to confer the capability for indefinite propagation in culture
an information content entity that expresses an assertion that is intended to be tested .
an information content entity that is inferred from data .
a cell culture comprised of primary cultured cells and the media in which they are being actively propaged or quiescently stored .
a cell culture comprised of cell line cells and the media in which they are being actively propagated or quiescently stored .
a processed material that serves as a liquid vehicle for freezing cells for long term quiescent stroage ,  which contains chemicls needed to sustain cell viability across freeze - thaw cycles .
computation run time is a time measurement datum which corresponds the time expressed in second ,  minute ,  hour necessary for a computer program to complete a process execution ,  for example genome assembly .
a polymerase chain reaction that amplifies multiple targets with a single primer pair mediated by hybridization of a primer with its target sequence using ligation .
an assay which quantifies the timing of dna replication as a function of genome position using array technology .
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to examine charateristics of dna replication ,  such as replication time .
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to determine spatial organization of chromatin .
an assay that combines immunoprecipitation of an rna - binding protein and array technology to identify mrnas associated with selected rna binding proteins  ( rbps )  .
an assay that measures the organization of chromosomes at the genome - wide scale .
an assay in which timing of dna replication is quantified as a function of genome position based on genome - wide sequencing .
an rna - binding protein immunoprecipitation array profiling assay that combines immunoprecipitation of an rna - binding protein and rna tiling array to identify mrnas associated with selected rna binding proteins  ( rbps )  .
a microrna profiling assay that analyzes the microrna component of the transcriptome using high throughput sequencing technology .
a sequencing assay that detremines amino acid sequences of proteins using multiple rounds of mass spectrometry and molecule fragmentation .
an assay that identifies nucleosome positioning by genome wide sequencing of regions sensitive to digestion by micrococal nuclease
a chip - seq assay which uses immunoprecipitation to isolate protein bound dna followed by an exonuclease step to degrade dna that is not protein bound to provide greater resolution of the dna binding site
a transcription profiling assay that quantifies the microrna species within a biological sample .
a planned process which results in the creation of group of entity from a larger group by the application of predefined criteria .
a value specification that specifies the mass of some thing .
a value specification that is specifies one category out of a fixed number of nominal categories
a value specification that consists of two parts: a numeral and a unit label
a planned process in which predicted values for some thing are compared to measured values for that thing .
an information content entity that specifies a value within a classification scheme or on a quantitative scale .
an information content entity that has been generated by a prediction process in which an estimate of a value of an entity is made which can be measured but without performing such a measurement .
 a predicted value where the prediction specifies the mass of some thing .
a material entity that is the specified output of an addition of molecular label process that aims to label some molecular target to allow for its detection in a detection of molecular label assay
a data item that is the total number of bases in reads ,  divided by genome size ,  assumed to be the reference size  ( for instance of 3 .10 gb for human and 2 .73 gb for mouse )  and refers to the percentage of the genome that is contained in the assembly based on size estimates ;  these are usually based on cytological techniques .
the weighted median item size or n50 is a weighted median of the lengths of items ,  equal to the length of the longest item i such that the sum of the lengths of items greater than or equal in length to i is greater than or equal to half the length of all of the items .
n50 statistic computed for the contigs produced by the assembly process .
an organization that provides funding support for projects such as investigations .
a plan specification that specifies a chain encoded in software of processing elements  ( processes ,  threads ,  coroutines ,  etc .
a planned process that identifies and reports sequence features  ( e .g .
n50 statistic computed for the scaffold produced by the assembly process .
a short oligonucleotide complementary to target dna  ( 5' -  > 3' on plus strand )  that acts as the leader for dna extension in a pcr reaction .
a person or organization reporting the feature annotation results from the analysis of a macromolecular sequence .
a textual entity that is used to denote a sequence assembly .
a reporting party role that is realized by a person or organization who reports the feature annotation results from the analysis of a macromolecular sequence .
a short oligonucleotide complementary to target dna  ( 5' -  > 3' on minus strand )  that acts as the leader for dna extension in a pcr reaction .
a freezing process by which material entities are quickly frozen by subjecting them to cryogenic temperatures ,  or in direct contact with liquid nitrogen at  - 320 .8f or  - 196c .
a planned process in which a material entity has it's temperature lowered to below the freezing point in order to bring it to a state in which it can be maintained at this lower temperature in order to preserve some of its qualities .
an assay in which portions of chromatin ,  the ordered and organized complex of dna and its interaction partners that make up a chormosome ,  is extracted and purified by immunoprecipitation with antibodies or tags ,  and subsequently analyzed
a positive reference substance role that inheres in a material entity that is known to bind to a target entity ,  and that is realized in a competitive binding assay that has as specified input the target entity ,  an evaluant and the positive reference substance ,  where the binding of the evaluant to the target is measured based on the evaluant's ability to compete with the positive reference substance for binding to the target .
an assay that produces data about protein - dna interaction or dna epigenetic modification using immunoprecipitation
a study design that aims to compare different types of hardware for performance ,  reproducibility ,  accuracy and precision .
a study design for identifying in the literature prior studies of a pre - determined phenomenon or set of related phenomena according to certain criteria ,  extracting findings from these studies ,  and summarizing these findings and / or attempting to draw new conclusions from them which were not justified by any of the individual ,  prior studies .
a planned process which consists in running a set of samples as a pool on a sequencing instrument ,  while retaining the ability to associate individual results to each of the individual input samples through the use of a ligated oligonucleotide  ( the  \ "multiplex identifier sequence \ " )  .
an assay that dteremines taxonomic and community diversity information by sequencing specific genomic regions used as marker of identity or diversity .
a pcr program is a plan specification which is executed during a polymerase chain reaction  ( pcr )  by a thermocycler instrument that will iterate through the changes in temperature and duration of each of the annealing ,  denaturation ,  elongation steps for as many times as specified by the program .
is a directive information specifying a coding genomic region which is the focus of a planned process such as an assay ,  for instance in a environmental gene survey
is a directive information specifying a genomic region ,  possibly located in a coding genomic region ,  which is the focus of a planned process such as an assay ,  for instance in a environmental gene survey
an objective specification which what includes a description of two or more alternative actions to take in a particular situation and a metric that enables comparisons of the two actions .
a study design that has a decision analysis objective specification as part
is a data transformation which uses sequence alignment and  'multiplex identifier sequence' information to separate all reads belonging to a given single sample following the sequencing of a multiplexed library
a multiplexing sequence identifier is a nucleic acid sequence which is used in a ligation step of library preparation process to allow pooling of samples while maintaining ability to identify individual source material and creation of a multiplexed library
operational taxonomic unit matrix  is a data item ,  organized as a table ,  where organismal taxonomic units ,  computed by sequence analysis and genetic distance calculation ,  are counted in a set of biological or environmental samples .
biodiversity assessment objective is an objective of a planned process aimed at producing data item whose interpretation should provide insight about variety of biological species found in a biological sample at macroscopic or microscopic level
a multiplexed library is a material entity which is the output of a library preparation process that uses a ligation step to attach a unique multiplexing sequence identifier to a specific sample ,  then mixes several such tagged samples prior to the library amplification process proper .
an ion semiconductor chip manufactured by life technologies which detects polymerase - driven base incorporation to translate into digital form .
an ion semiconductor chip manufactured by life technologies which detects polymerase - driven base incorporation to translate into digital form .
an ion detector that is organized as an electronic circuit whose components ,  such as transistors and resistors ,  are etched or deposited on a single slice of semiconductor material to produce a chip .
an ion semiconductor chip manufactured by life technologies which detects polymerase - driven base incorporation to translate into digital form .
a footprinting assay that uses a chemical reaction whereby a covalently bonded hydrogen atom is replaced by a deuterium atom ,  or vice versa in order to gather information about the solvent accessibility of parts of a molecule and thus its tertiary structure .
an assay that measures properties of cells .
an analyte assay that detects specific molecules in an input material by separating it using gel electrophoresis ,  transfering the separated molecules to a membrane ,  and staining them with_ antibodies specific to the analyte molecules .
a binding assay in which the proximity of two entities is monitored by measuring a fluorescent signal of one of the entities that gets reduced if the two entities are cliose to each other .
an assay in which the effect of a targeted process  ( the intervention )  on an organism is tested .
an in vivo intervention experiment that tests the ability of the intervention to increase the severity of a disease in the host .
an in vivo intervention experiment that tests the ability of the intervention to prevent occurrence of a disease in a host .
an in vivo intervention experiment that tests the ability of the intervention to decrease an immune response .
an in vivo intervention experiment in which the ability of the intervention to reduce or cure the effects of a disease are tested .
an analyte assay where binding of the analyte to immobilized matrix is measured .
an immunostaining assay to detect and potentially localize antigens within the cells of a tissue section .
a mhc binding constant determination assay measuring equilibrium association constant  ( ka )  .
a mhc binding constant determination assay measuring equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  .
a purified mhc ligand binding equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses radioactivity detection to detect loss of binding of a known reference ligand due to competition by the ligand under investigation .
a mhc binding constant determination assay measuring half life of binding .
a mhc binding constant determination assay measuring half maximal effective concentration  ( ec50 )  .
a mhc binding constant determination assay measuring half maximal inhibitory concentration  ( ic50 )  .
a mhc binding constant determination assay measuring binding off rate measurement data item  ( koff )  .
a mhc binding constant determination assay measuring binding on rate  ( kon )  .
a b cell epitope equilibrium association constant  ( ka )  determination assay that uses an analytical chromatography assay .
a b cell epitope equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses an analytical chromatography assay .
a footprinting assay that uses hydrogen / deuterium exchange to measure b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses an immunohistochemistry assay .
a t cell epitope recognition assay that uses a 3d structure determination of bound complex assay .
an illumina genome analyzer ii which is manufactured by the illumina corporation .
a dna sequencer which is manufactured by the illumina corporation ,  with two flow cells and a throughput of up to 55 gb per day .
a dna sequencer which is manufactured by the illumina corporation ,  with two flow cells and a throughput of up to 160 gb per day .
a dna sequencer which is manufactured by the illumina corporation .
a methylation beadchip which is manufactured by the illumina corporation .
a methylation beadchip which is manufactured by the illumina corporation .
a beadchip which is manufactured by the illumina corporation .
a dna sequencer which is manufacted by the applied biosystems corporation .
a tiling array which is manufactured by the nimblegen corporation .
a tiling array which is manufactured by the nimblegen corporation .
a tiling array which is manufactured by the nimblegen corporation .
a tiling array which is manufactured by the nimblegen corporation .
a dna sequencer which is manufactured by the pacific biosciences corporation .
a human array which is manufacutred by nanostring technologies .
an epigenetic modification assay that identifies sites of dna methylation using chip - chip technologies .
a transcription profiling assay that uses massive parallel signature sequencing  ( mpss )  .
an epigenetic modification assay that identifies regions containing specific histones and their modifications using chip - chip techniques .
an epigenetic modification assay that identifies regions containing specific histones and their modifications using chip - seq techniques .
a transcription factor binding site assay that utilizes chip - chip technology .
a transcription factor binding site assay that utilizes chip - seq technology .
an assay that identifies epigenetic modifications including histone modifications ,  open chromatin ,  and dna methylation .
a dna sequencer which is a desktop sequencer ideal for smaller - scale studies manufactured by the illumina corporation .
a dna sequencer which is manufactured by the illumina corporation ,  with a single flow cell and a throughput of up to 35 gb per day .
a tiling array which is  a comprehensive whole human genome expression array manufactured by the affymetrix corporation .
an ab solid system which is manufacted by the applied biosystems corporation .
a tiling microarray which is manufactured by the affymetrix corporation .
a tiling array which is manufactured by the affymetrix corporation .
an illumina genome analyzer ii which is manufactured by the illumina corporation .
a library preparation in which tags identifiying transcripts are created ,  ligated to form ditags ,  amplified ,  concatemerized and ligated into a vector to create a library . \ n
a transcription profiling assay that quantifies rna through creating short signature tags of the messages and ligating them into a larger molecule than was sequenced .
a genotyping by array assay that uses tiling array technology .
a genotyping by array assay that uses snp array technology .
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay that performs simultaneous in vitro profiling of the secondary structure of thousands of rna species at single nucleotide resolution using enzymatic probing based on deep sequencing fragments of rnas that were treated with structure - specific enzymes
an rna - seq assay that combines tl - seq with polysome fractionation
an rna - seq assay that combines enzymatic capture of m ( 7 ) g - capped mrna 5' ends with high - throughput sequencing .
a mass spectrometry assay that measures the absolute mass of the cleaved peptides derived from an unknown protein of interest .
an assay which aims to provide information about the in vivo organization / structure of nucleic acids using chemical or enzymatic probes using a microarray .
an array based nucleic acid structure mapping assay that identifies nucleosome positions genome wide ,  by detection of regions protected by nucleosomes from digestion by micrococal nuclease using tiling array assays
a rna - seq assay that sequences only mrna protected by the ribosome during translation .
an assay to capture the location of open chromatin ,  dna - binding proteins ,  individual nucleosomes and chromatin compaction at nucleotide resolution by tn5 transposase insertion .
a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay that measures regions of the genome which are bound by a specific rna  ( or a by a ribonucleoprotein containing the rna of interest )  using high - throughput sequencing .
an rna - seq assay that identifies the sequences that act as transcriptional enhancers in a direct ,  quantitative ,  and genome - wide manner from sheared genomic dna .
a carbon - copy chromosome conformation capture assay to analyze the organization of chromosomes in an unbiased ,  genome - wide manner using high throughput sequening following carbon - copy chromosome conformation capture .
a cross - linking immunoprecipitation high - throughput sequencing assay that identifies protein - rna interactions using uv light to covalently bind proteins and rna molecules ,  allowing for a very stringent purification of the linked protein - rna complexes .
an rna - seq assay that comprehensively characterizes sequence and structural specificity of rna binding proteins  ( rbps )  .
a rna - seq assay that quantitatively profiles rna polyadenylation at the transcriptome level .
a device that is used as a binding surface for ligand during a surface plasmon resonance assay ,  consisting of a glass plate to which a metal film is attached
a processed material that is comprised of an antibody that is covalently linked to an enzyme through bioconjugation .
a dna sequencer manufactured by illumina corporation ,  with a single flow cell and a throughput of more than 200 gb per day .
a dna sequencer manufactured by illumina corporation ,  with two flow cell and a throughput of more than 400 gb per day .
a mhc:ligand binding assay that uses a 3d structure determination of bound complex assay .
a b cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on pathogen burden .
a b cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on tumor burden .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses a microarray .
a b cell epitope equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses a nuclear magnetic resonance assay .
a t cell epitope recognition assay that detects biological activity .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects production of chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 17 production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects macrophage migration inhibitory factor  ( mif )  production by t cells .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects oncostatin m production by t cells .
a t cell epitope recognition assay that quantitavely characterizes the binding of a tcr with a ligand by determining a binding constant .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 17 production by t cells that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 22 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a t cell epitope specific killing assay that uses an in vitro cell killing assay .
a t cell epitope specific granzyme a release assay that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a t cell epitope specific granzyme a release assay that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
a t cell epitope specific granzyme b release assay that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a t cell epitope specific granzyme b release assay that uses a detection of specific nucleic acids with complementary probes assay .
an assay of epitope specific macrophage migration inhibitory factor  ( mif )  production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific oncostatin m production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a t cell epitope specific perforin release assay that uses an elispot assay .
a t cell epitope specific proliferation assay that is performed in vivo .
a t cell epitope specific proliferation assay that is performed on cells in vitro .
a mhc:ligand binding assay that detects qualitative binding .
an efficacy of t cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment .
t cell epitope dependent biological activity assay that detects suppression of an in vitro response .
an immune epitope assay that detects either the processing and presentation of a ligand by an antigen presenting cell or the binding of a ligand to an mhc molecule .
a material entity that has two or more specimens as its parts .
a collection of specimens derived from one common specimen via one or more material processing process ( es )  .
a specimen collection process that generates multiple specimens from one source  ( e .g .
a collection of specimens that is collected from one source  ( e .g .
a specimen set that is collected from one person during a time period which for the purpose of the study can be considered to be taken at the same sampling time .
a collection of specimens that was derived from the same source material entity at different time points in order to observe changes in that entity .
an assay that detects expression of a reporter gene that was inserted under the control of a regulatory sequence of interest .
a reporter gene assay that detects expression of a reporter gene that was inserted under the control of an enhancer of interest .
a chip - seq assay that identifies regions of chromatin bound to a chromatin modifying protein ,  e .g .
an in situ hybridization assay in which the location  ( e .g .
a bisulfite sequencing assay that identifies genomic methylation patterns by using a bisulfite based protocol with the tet enzyme to differentiate 5 - hydroxylmethylcytosine  ( 5hmc )  from 5 - methylcytosine  ( 5mc )  through a step - wise oxidative demethylation of 5mc ,  converting it to 5 - carboxylcytosine  ( 5cac )  while keeping 5hmc protected .
a contain function that involves physical contact with a specimen .
a container with the function of containing a specimen .
a container with an environmental control function .
a reverse transcribed polymerase chain reaction that is used to amplify a mrna sequence between a defined internal site and the 5' or 3' end of the mrna .
a rapid amplication of cdna ends to amplify a mrna sequence between a defined internal site and the 5' end of the mrna .
a rapid amplication of cdna ends to amplify a mrna sequence between a defined internal site and the 3' end of the mrna .
a 5' rapid amplification pf cdna ends that uses rna ligase to add an rna adapter oligonucleotide to intact 5' mrna ends ,  allowing the amplification of cdna only from full - length ,  capped mrna .
a bisulfite sequencing assay in which a whole - genome sequencing library is prepared ,  bisulfite converted and amplified ,  followed by a capture enriching for targeted bisulfite - converted dna fragments that are are subsequently identified by dna sequencing .
a material processing that has as its input a specimen and as its output a collection of specimens .
a t cell epitope specific proliferation assay performed on cells in vitro that uses a cfse assay .
a t cell epitope binding constant determination assay that measures the dissociation constant kd .
a t cell epitope binding constant determination assay that measures the on rate .
a t cell epitope binding constant determination assay that measures the off rate .
a t cell epitope binding constant determination assay that measures the association constant ka .
a b cell epitope 3d structure determination assay that uses a small - angle x - ray scattering assay .
a b cell epitope assay that measures the on rate using a bio - layer interferometry assay .
a b cell epitope assay that measures the off rate using a bio - layer interferometry assay .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses a bio - layer interferometry assay .
a b cell epitope equilibrium dissociation constant  ( kd )  determination assay that uses a bio - layer interferometry assay .
a assay detecting a molecular label assay where the amount of carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester is measured using fluorescence detection .
a binding assay that detects a shift in the interference pattern reflected from a layer of immobilized material on the biosensor tip to measure binding to -  or dissociating from the material on the biosensor .
a 3d structure determination assay in which the scattering pattern of a neutron or x - ray beam targeted at a material entity is recorded at small angles relative to the incident beam to determine the size ,  shape and structure of the material entity examined .
a tiling array which is manufactured by the nimblegen corporation to analyze dna sequence copy number by comparative genomic hybridization for human dna against 6x630 , 000 features .
a centrally registered identifier symbol used to uniquely identify objects given by international doi foundation .
an iclip assay that is enhanced to robustly identify protein - rna interactions with high efficiency through improvements in library preparation of rna fragments .
an rna - seq assay which is targeting small rna  (  <  200 bp )  sequences such as ,  but not exclusive to ,  mirnas using ,  for example ,  small rna library preparation kits .
an rna - seq assay to identify spans of nascent transcription in the genome through isolation of recent bromouridine  ( bru )  labelled rnas .
an rna - seq assay to identify rna populations of specific ages through isolation of rnas first labelled with bromouridine  ( bru )  followed by chasing in uridine for different periods of time .
a cytometry assay in which the presence of molecules of interest on or in cells is indicated by binding of antibodies labeled with rare earth element tags which are detected by time - of - flight mass spectrometry .
an analytical chromatography assay that utilizes a high performance liquid chromatography instrument for separation of compounts in a solution .
a dna sequencing assay that intends to provide information about the sequence of an entire genome of an organism .
a dna sequencing assay that intends to provide information about the sequence of the protein coding components of a genome  ( exons )  .
an imaging assay that utilizes a microscope to magnify features of the visualized material of interest that are not visible to naked eye .
a cytometry assay where lymphocytes from two individuals are co - cultured with the lymphocytes from one of the allogeneic individuals  ( responders )  being labeled  ( with 3h thymidine or brdu )  and the proliferation of the labeled cells is measured ,  which is thought to reflect recognition of histocompatibility antigens on the unlabeled cells  ( stimulators )  .
a genotyping assay in which the alleles of genes encoding for killer cell immunoglobulin - like receptors are determined .
a genotyping assay in which the alleles of genes encoding for major histocompatibility complex molecules are determined .
a staining using labeled antibodies ,  i .e .
a staining using hematoxylin and eosin .
a fixed tissue slide specimen that is the output of h&e slide staining .
a fixed tissue slide specimen that is the output of immunohistochemistry slide staining .
a cell specimen that contains only one cell .
a dna sequencer manufactured by solexa as one of its first sequencer lines ,  launched in 2006 ,  and capable of sequencing 1 gigabase  ( gb )  of data in a single run .
a dna sequencer that consists of a set of 10 hiseq x sequencing systems .
an illumina beadchip which is an array that interrogates over 4 .3 million whole - genome variants for genotyping and copy number variation .
an illumina methylation beadchip which is an array that interrogates ~ 850 , 000 methylation sites per sample at single - nucleotide resolution .
an assay that detects differences in protein abundance using samples that have been metabolically labeled in vivo with a stable non - radioactive heavy isotope containing amino acid for a short period of time .
an assay of epitope specific chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 20 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects chemokine  ( c - c motif )  ligand 20 production by t cells .
a data transformation using the rin algorithm to generate a quality measure of rna based on features from an electrophoretic trace .
a value specification that specifies the value of the rna integrity number as a real value between 1  ( most degraded )  and 10  ( most intact )  .
a value specification that specifies the temperature of some thing .
a value specification that specifies the volume of some thing .
an assay to determine the temperature of an evaluant .
an assay to determine the volume of an evaluant .
a microrna profiling assay using digital molecular barcoding technology to quantify target microrna molecules without the need for amplification .
an rna - seq assay to identify transcription start sites and active enhancer elements through isolation of bromouridine  ( bru )  labelled rnas after uv light exposure introduces transcription - blocking lesions .
an assay which aims at identifying the endogenous population of extrachromosomal circular dna originating from a subset of genomic loci and potentially having profound consequences on the regulatory and coding capabilities of these regions .
an analyte assay that measures the presence or amount of antibodies to a specified antigen .
an antigen specific antibodies assay that is meant to detect antibodies that bind to human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  antigens .
an antigen specific antibodies assay that is meant to detect antibodies that bind to human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  group o antigens .
an antigen specific antibodies assay that is meant to detect antibodies that bind to hepatitis b virus  ( hbv )  surface antigens .
an antigen specific antibodies assay that is meant to detect antibodies that bind to hepatitis b virus  ( hbv )  core antigens .
an antigen specific antibodies assay that is meant to detectimmunoglobulin m  ( igm )  antibodies that bind to hepatitis b virus  ( hbv )  core antigens .
an antigen specific antibodies assay that is meant to detect antibodies that bind to hepatitis c virus  ( hcv )  antigens .
an antigen specific antibodies assay that is meant to detect immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  antibodies that bind to epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  antigens .
an antigen specific antibodies assay that is meant to detect immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  antibodies that bind to epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  antigens .
an antigen specific antibodies assay that is meant to detect antibodies that bind to cytomegalovirus  ( cmv )  antigens .
an analyte assay that is meant to detect general antibodies that react with substances that are produced by cellular damage caused by treponema pallidum indicating a syphilis infection .
an analyte assay that is meant to detect with the aid of carbon or charcoal particles general antibodies that react with substances that are produced by cellular damage caused by treponema pallidum indicating a syphilis infection .
an analyte assay that is meant to detect hepatitis b virus  ( hbv )  surface antigens .
an analyte assay that is meant to detect human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv - 1 )  nucleic acids .
an analyte assay that is meant to detect hepatitis c virus  ( hcv )  nucleic acids .
a chip - seq assay which leverages t7 promoter amplification to allow low sample input and chromatin barcoding and pool - and - split multiplexing for high - throughput ,  quantitative profiling of chromatin states .
a binding assay that identifies protein - binding sites on nucleic acids by selecting high - affinity target ligands from a randomized pool .
an assay that measures ligand binding and conformational changes by the solvent accessibility of the backbone ,  bases ,  or side - chain structures of macromolecules through their sensitivity to chemical or enzymatic cleavage or modification reactions .
an enzymatic footprinting assay that determines protein - binding sites on dna by identifying bound fragments that are protected from dnase i - catalyzed hydrolysis
a binding assay that increases the expression of a reporter gene in mammalian cells by proteins of interest attached to two portions of the transcriptional activator ,  bringing those portions closer together .
an assay that determines the specific location of a protein .
a protein localization assay that determines the specific location of a protein in a living tissue sample .
a protein localization assay that determines the specific subcellular location of a protein .
an immunohistochemistry assay that uses antibodies to display the specific subcellular location of proteins .
a chip assay that uses quantitative pcr to determine levels of specific dna in immunoprecipitated samples .
a systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment assay that starts with a library derived from genomic dna instead of synthetically derived random dna molecules .
an analyte assay that detects molecules in a mixture dotted on a membrane using dna probes or antibodies .
a direct binding assay that detects interactions of labeled rna with immobilized protein on a membrane .
a direct binding assay that detects interactions of labeled dna with immobilized protein on a membrane .
an immuno staining assay in which samples of intact cells are examined that have had most ,  if not all ,  of their surrounding extracellular matrix removed
an analyte assay that detects atp concentration through light intensity when luciferase catalyzes the oxidation of luciferin in the presence of atp ,  magnesium ions ,  and molecular oxygen .
an assay that measures the electrical properties of biological cells or tissues .
an intracellular electrophysiology assay where a glass micropipette is sealed to the surface of the cell membrane as a recording electrode to study ion channel activity .
a patch - clamp assay where the electrode is left in place on the cell ,  as in cell - attached recordings ,  but the membrane patch has been perforated ,  providing access from the interior of the pipette to the intracellular space of the cell .
a patch - clamp assay where the electrode is left in place on the cell ,  and the membrane patch has been left intact been perforated .
a patch - clamp assay where a patch of the membrane is attached to the patch pipette ,  detached from the rest of the cell ,  and the cytosolic surface of the membrane is exposed to the external media ,  or bath .
a patch - clamp assay where a patch of the membrane is attached to the patch pipette .
an cellular electrophysiology assay where the membrane potential of a cell is controlled by the experimentalist .
the two electrode voltage clamp  ( tevc )  method utilizes two low - resistance pipettes ,  one sensing voltage and the other injecting current .
the cut - open oocyte vaseline gap  ( covg )  voltage - clamp technique is designed to solve weaknesses in the two elextrode voltage clamp by maximizing the benefits of the xenopus oocyte expression system by improving on clamp speed ,  signal - to - noise ratio ,  and ability to effectively perfuse the oocyte .
the current clamp technique records the membrane potential by injecting current into a cell through the recording electrode .
an extracellular electrophysiology assay where electrodes are mounted outside the brain  ( either on the surface of the scalp on onto the brain surface itself during surgery )  to measure the electrical field over the external surface .
an extracellular electrophysiology assay where a single microelectrode is placed in close proximity to a single neuron to measure voltage and current changes over time .
an extracellular electrophysiology assay where a collection of microelectrodes  ( often in an 'array' configuration )  is placed into neural tissue to measure the distribution of voltage and current changes for a population of cells over time .
an extracellular electrophysiology assay where a microelectrode is placed in the extracellular space of brain tissue to measure action potential and compared to an electrode either outside or inside that tissue .
an organization that delivers messages ,  packages ,  and mail .
a centrally registered identifier symbol assigned by a courier organization in order to track the delivery of an item .
an automatic tissue processor that is a dual retort tissue processor manufactured by the leica company to provide fast ,  high quality tissue processing for histology laboratories .
a microtome that is manufactured by microm and uses a vertical cutting stroke common to all rotary microtomes engaged by a horizontal sliding movement .
a device that is the part of a microtome used to slice specimens to a desired thickness .
a microtome blade that is manufactured by feather and is disposable .
a length measurement datum that is the result of an assay measuring the thickness of a tissue section .
an organization that provides molecular analysis service .
an information content entity that provides an explanation why a data item is not provided .
a reason for lack of data item that is the negative output of a determination if assay will provide reliable results .
a planned process that is used to assess whether an assay will provide reliable results based on the conditions or qualities of the inputs ,  devices ,  and other participants of the assay .
a cannot be assessed determination for histologic tumor grade .
a cannot be assessed determination for pathologic primary tumor staging .
a cannot be assessed determination of pathologic staging of lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a tumor slide specimen according to the american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  7th edition grading system .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a tumor slide specimen according to the fuhrman nuclear grading system .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a ovarian tumor .
a histologic grade for ovarian tumor that is from a two - tier histological classification of tumors .
a histologic grade for ovarian tumor that is from a histological classification by the world health organization  ( who )  .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colorectal cancer following the rules of the tnm american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  version 7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  version 7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colorectal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colon cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a  pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of the stage of a cancer according to the american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  v7 staging systems .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of the stage of a gynecologic cancer according to the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics  ( figo )  staging systems .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the figo classification system .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of a participant's performance status  ( general well - being and activities of daily life )  .
a performance status value specification designed by the eastern cooperative oncology group to assess disease progression and its affect on the daily living abilities of the patient .
a performance status value specification designed for classifying patients 16 years of age or older by their functional impairment .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer .
a clinical history in which there was no diagnosis of cancer .
a clinical history in which it is not known whether there was a diagnosis of cancer .
a diagnosis that is an assertion that a patient who is the subject of a diagnostic process has cancer .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a blood relative .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in the female sibling of a parent .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a male sibling .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a person's female child .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a male parent .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a female parent .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a female sibling .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a person's male child .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a male sibling of a parent .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a female parent of a parent .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a male parent of a parent .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a male child of a sibling .
a clinical history in which there is a diagnosis of cancer in a female child of a sibling .
a diagnosis that is an assertion that a patient who is the subject of a diagnostic process has an infectious disease .
a diagnosis of infectious disease caused by the hepatitis b virus .
a diagnosis of infectious disease caused by the hepatitis c virus .
a diagnosis of infectious disease caused by the human immunodeficiency virus  ( 1 or 2 )  .
a clinical history in which there is repeated reactive screening assays for human immunodeficiency virus  ( 1 or 2 )  antibodies regardless of the results of supplemental assays .
a clinical history in which there has been second hand exposure to tobacco smoking .
an exposure to second hand smoke that occurred in the  ( patient's )  household when the person was a child .
an exposure to second hand smoke in person's current household .
a clinical history in which a female has had a pregnancy .
a measurement datum of the total number of pregnancies a woman has had .
a measurement datum of the total number of live births a female has had .
an age measurement datum performed on a female when her first biological child was born .
a clinical history in which a woman has had gynecologic surgery in the past .
a gynecologic surgery history in which a woman has had a hysterectomy .
a gynecologic surgery history in which a woman has had a unilateral oophorectomy .
a gynecologic surgery history in which a woman has not had either a hysterectomy or an oophorectomy .
an information content entity that indicates whether a woman has ever used oral contraceptives in order to block ovulation and prevent the occurrence of pregnancy .
a hormonal birth control use history that indicates an individual has previously been a hormonal birth control user but is not a current user .
a hormonal birth control use history that indicates an individual is currently a hormonal birth control user .
a hormonal birth control use history that indicates an individual has not ever been a hormonal birth control user .
a clinical history in which an individual has had hormonal replacement therapy in the past .
a processed material used for delivery of hormones in hormone replacement therapy .
a delivery form for hormonal replacement therapy that is a pill for oral administration .
a delivery form for hormonal replacement therapy that is a patch for transdermal administration .
a delivery form for hormonal replacement therapy that is a cream for transdermal administration .
an information content entity that indicates the state of a female's cessation of menstruation .
a menopausal status that is neither pre -  nor post - menopausal .
a menopausal status indicating that less than 6 months has passed since the last menstrual period and there has not been prior bilateral oophorectomy and not on estrogen replacement .
a menopausal status indicating that it has been 6 - 12 months since last menstrual period .
a menopausal status indicating that it has been more than 12 months since the last menstrual period with no prior hysterectomy or that there has been a prior bilateral oophorectomy .
a information content entity that indicates the exposure of an individual to carcinogens in the workplace or environment .
an exposure to environmental and workplace carcinogens history where the carcinogen is arsenic .
an exposure to environmental and workplace carcinogens history where the carcinogen is asbestos .
an exposure to environmental and workplace carcinogens history where the carcinogen is diesel exhaust .
an exposure to environmental and workplace carcinogens history where the carcinogen is chromium .
an exposure to environmental and workplace carcinogens history where the carcinogen is silica .
an information content entity that indicates whether or not  an entity has met a specific requirement in order to take part in a given process .
an information content entity  that indicates whether or not  an entity  has met all specific requirements in order to take part in a given process .
an inclusion criterion that uses the age of majority for a state or institution ,  where one is generally considered to be an adult ,  which if met ,  makes an individual suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an exclusion criterion that defines whether chemotherapy was received or is being received for a previous  or current cancer ,  which when met ,  makes an individual unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process
an exclusion criterion that defines whether radiation was received or is being received for a previous  or current cancer ,  which when met ,  makes an individual unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process
an exclusion criterion that defines whether chemotherapy was received within a certain timeframe ,  which when met ,  makes an individual unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an exclusion criterion that defines whether radiation was received within a certain timeframe ,  which when met ,  makes an individual unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an inclusion criterion that defines and states a body mass index range ,  which if met ,  makes an individual suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an exclusion criterion that is defined by whether the specimen donor received a whole blood transfusion within a specified time frame prior to death ,  which if met ,  makes a specimen donor unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an exclusion criterion defined as whether an individual has ever been diagnosed with metastatic cancer  ( cancer that spread beyond the initial site such as to other organs like brain bone or liver )  ,  which if met ,  makes the individual unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an exclusion criterion defined as when an individual has a history of intravenous drug abuse for a specific timeframe ,  which if met ,  makes the individual unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an exclusion criterion defined  as whether an individual has a history of sex with someone who has been diagnosed or at risk for a blood borne infections disease in a specified time frame ,  which if met ,  makes the individual unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an exclusion criterion defined  as whether an individual has a history of sex with someone who has used intravenous drugs in a specified time frame ,  which if met ,  makes the individual unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an exclusion criterion defined  as whether an individual has a history of repeatedly reactive screening assays for hiv - 1 or hiv - 2 antibody regardless of the results of supplemental assays ,  which if met ,  makes the individual unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an exclusion criterion defined  as whether an individual has been exposed to a blood borne infections disease through needle sticks and / or contact with non - intact skin and / or contact with open wounds and / or contact with mucous membranes ,  which if met ,  makes the individual unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an assay that identifies rna binding proteins by cross - linking rna and proteins with uv light ,  then purifying the bound complexes by oligo ( dt )  capture .
a fluorescence microscopy technique where the specimen under investigation is fully bathed in light ,  as opposed to confocal microscopy in which only a small portion of the specimen is illuminated .
an assay that detects the proximity of chromosomal dna through the use of a ligation reaction in isolated nuclei .
a nuclear ligation assay that detects chromosomal interactions between any two genomic loci .
a chromosome conformation capture assay that detects genome - wide chromosomal interactions .
an assay that produces a description of the qualities of an entity that has not been transformed ,  through observation and physical ,  non - invasive techniques .
a footprinting assay that uses the reaction of hydroxyl radicals with side - chain sites in molecules  ( proteins ,  dna ,  etc ) _ with the resultant mass shift demonstrating the site of modification ,  used to_ to asses the accessibility of that site .
a footprinting assay that determines protein - binding sites on dna by partial cleavage of ligand - protected dna restriction fragments with methidium - propyl - edta  ( mpe )  .
a role borne by a material entity and realized in an assay which achieves the objective to measure the magnitude / concentration / amount of the measurand in the entity bearing evaluant role .
a transcription profiling assay in which the transcription start site for a gene is determined by identifying the 5' end of mrna .
a study design in which proteins in a sample are detected ,  quantified or otherwise analysed .
an artificially induced nucleic acid hybridization that is performed to compare gene expression in different cell or tissue types based on normalization and suppression ,  which creates a subtracted cdna or genomic dna library .
an artificially induced nucleic acid hybridization that is performed to identify differentially expressed genes through hybridization of cdna probes .
a b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody assay that uses a footprinting assay .
a footprinting assay that uses hydroxyl - radical footprinting to measure b cell epitope qualitative binding to antibody .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - alpha production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a t cell epitope specific cytokine production assay that detects interferon - alpha production by t cells .
an inclusion criterion that defines and states one or more clinically significant bodily components ,  dispositions ,  and / or bodily processes of an entity that are inferred from relevant clinical findings or self - reported ,  which ,  if met ,  makes the entity suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an inclusion criterion that defines and states one or more clinically relevant planned processes that a human being actively participates in  ,  which ,  if met ,  makes the human being suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an inclusion criterion that defines and states one or more clinically relevant histories of exposure of an entity ,  which ,  if met ,  makes the entity suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an inclusion criterion that defines and states one or more gravidity statuses of an organism ,  which ,  if met ,  makes the entity suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an rna - seq assay that maps the genome - wide distribution of transcriptionally - engaged pol ii at base - pair resolution by using biotin - labeled ribonucleotide triphosphate analogs  ( biotin - ntp )  for nuclear run - on reactions ,  allowing the efficient affinity purification of nascent rnas for high throughput sequencing from their 3' ends .
a nuclear ligation assay which uses cross - linking of proteins to proteins and dna ,  followed by two rounds of digestion and ligation ,  inverse pcr ,  and characterization by microarray or dna sequencing .
a genotyping assay in which carbon - copy chromosome conformation is used to detect polymorphism in dna samples .
an inclusion criterion that is based on fitting within the defined characteristics of a population based study design .
a data format specification that is a binary file containing base calling data .
a processed material developed by the external rna controls consortium  ( ercc )  that  consists of 92 transcripts ,  derived and traceable from nist - certified dna plasmids .
a processed material that consists of transcript isoforms of 7 spike - in rna variant  ( sirv )  genes and possibly the 92 external rna controls consortium  ( ercc )  rna spike - in genes .
an accession number that applies to a database record for an individual sample object in an ncbi sequence read archive  ( sra )  submission .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of a cell since cultured  ( the process of seeding cells onto a culture dish )  .
an algorithm used to assign aligned sequence reads ,  resulting from a reference genome transcriptome alignment algorithm ,  to sequence features  ( e .g .
a software application that implements an alignment counting algorithm ,  used to count the overlap of aligned sequencing reads with genes .
an algorithm that assigns nucleotides to temporal or spatial peaks generated by a detector ,  such as peaks of light intensities generated by a dna sequencer
a base - calling application that implments a base - calling algorithm to convert bcl  ( binary base call )  files ,   ( e .g . ,  those generated by illumina sequencing systems )  to standard fastq file formats for downstream analysis .
a base calling application that implments a base calling algorithm to convert bcl  ( binary base call )  files generated by illumina sequencing systems to standard fastq file formats for downstream analysis .
a data item that is the date when a process was initiated .
a central registered identifier symbol that denotes a specific study in dbgap .
a worker role played by the person who runs the enzymatic amplifying process .
a worker role played by the person who performs the library preparation process to generate a sequencing library for a sample to be sequenced .
a data item that is the number of pcr cycles used during the construction of a sequencing library .
a data item that is the number of times an amplification reaction happened .
a reference substance role that is played by a reference genome when used during sequence alignment .
an algorithm that attempts to align a nucleic acid sequence to a reference genome and transcriptome .
a measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the number of bases in a dna or rna sequence .
a scalar measurement datum that indicates the amount of sequencing library used as input for a sequencer .
a cdna library that is a collection of short tags from only one end of dna fragments .
a scalar measurement datum that indicates the amount of specimen collected .
a data item that indicates the dilution of spike - in added to a specimen .
a reference genome transcriptome alignment algorithm that is a standalone rna - seq alignment algorithm that uses uncompressed suffix arrays and a mapping algorithm similar to those used in large - scale genome alignment tools to align rna - seq reads to a genomic reference .
a sequencing assay that incorporates single - end reads and sequencing technology to determine transcripts ,  gene structures ,  and gene expressions .
an alignment counting algorithm that assigns gene features to genomic alignments using a hierarchical assignment scheme ,  which allows simultaneous quantification of multiple feature types or annotation levels without repeatedly assigning reads .
a material separation device also commerically known as isoraft ,  that is used to isolate single cells .
a device that is a laboratory tool commonly used in chemistry ,  biology and medicine to transport a measured volume of liquid ,  often as a media dispenser .
an organism identification assay that uses a differential medium to achieve its objective
a scalar value specification that specifies the point in time that a human participant under investigation self - administers a medication material
a scalar value specification that specifies the value of the quantity of a material entity administered to an organism as a treatment
a role that is borne by a case - control study design participant under investigation that is associated with the outcome mentioned in the study design .
a role that is borne by a case - control study design participant under investigation that is not associated with the outcome mentioned in the study design .
a specimen that is derived from amniotic fluid .
a specimen that is derived from bile .
a specimen that is derived from cerbrospinal fluid .
a specimen that is derived from feces .
a specimen that is derived from digestive system fluid or secretion .
a specimen that is derived from milk .
a specimen that is derived from pericardial fluid .
a specimen that is derived from saliva .
a specimen that is derived from sputum .
a specimen that is derived from sweat .
a specimen that is derived from synovial fluid .
a specimen that is derived from vireous humor .
a specimen that is derived from bone marrow .
a specimen that is derived from placenta .
a specimen that is derived from peritoneal fluid .
a specimen that is derived from pleural fluid .
a specimen that is derived from brain .
a specimen that is derived from hair .
a specimen that is derived from prostate gland .
a specimen that is derived from skeletal muscle .
a specimen that is derived from heart .
a specimen that is derived from renal medulla .
a specimen that is derived from adrenal gland .
a specimen that is derived from breast .
a specimen that is derived from urinary bladder .
a specimen that is derived from tibial artery .
a specimen that is derived from skin .
a specimen that is derived from pancreas .
a specimen that is derived from stomach .
a specimen that is derived from pituitary gland .
a specimen that is derived from adipose tissue .
a specimen that is derived from cortex of kidney .
a specimen that is derived from esophagus mucosa .
a specimen that is derived from colon .
a specimen that is derived from lung .
a specimen that is derived from esophagus muscularis mucosa .
a specimen that is derived from cerebral cortex .
a specimen that is derived from thyroid gland .
a specimen that is derived from cerebellum .
a specimen that is derived from tibial nerve .
a specimen that is derived from coronary artery .
a specimen that is derived from spleen .
a specimen that is derived from aorta .
a specimen that is derived from the atrium auricular region .
a specimen that is derived from the esophagogastric junction .
a specimen that is derived from ileum .
a specimen that is derived from liver .
a specimen that is derived from minor salivary gland .
a specimen that is derived from omentum .
a specimen that is derived from female gonad .
a specimen that is derived from sigmoid colon .
a specimen that is derived from suprapubic skin .
a specimen that is derived from testis .
a specimen that is derived from uterus .
a specimen that is derived from vagina .
an inclusion criterion that defines and states an age bracket which ,  if met ,  makes an entity suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
a value specifcation that specifies the youngest age when specifying an age range .
a value specifcation that specifies the oldest age when specifying an age range .
an inclusion criterion that defines and states a a set of medications ,  which ,  if used by an entity ,  makes that entity suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an inclusion criterion defines that a human being has to be a hospital patient to be suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an inclusion criterion that defines and states one or more family statuses ,  which ,  if met ,  makes a human being suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an inclusion criterion that defines and states one or more sexes which ,  if met ,  makes an entity suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an inclusion criterion that defines and states one or more countries of residence which ,  if met ,  makes a human being suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an inclusion criteria that defines and states one or more ethnicities which ,  if met ,  makes an entity suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
a histological assay that is intended to check for the presence or level of a specific disease .
a data transformation in which adapter sequences at the end of a molecular sequence are cut  ( removed )  .
a data transformation in which data contained in 2 or more files are merged into a single file .
a data transformation in which one or more sequences  ( reads )  are positioned on a reference sequence template  ( often a reference set of genes )  ,  according to the genetic base - pairing paradigm .
the counting of features  ( typically ,  genes )  within aligned sequence data ,  and organization of these counts into one or more tables .
the results of a data transformation of sequence data in which  ( e .g . ,  low quality )  read bases are removed ,  to achieve some specific objective .
a mouse array which is manufacutred by nanostring technologies .
an rna - seq assay to study transcriptomes through the enrichment of polyadenylated transcripts or removal of ribosomal rna prior to high - throughput sequencing .
an rna - seq assay to study non - polyadenylated transcripts ,  such as ,  but not exclusive to unspliced and circular isoforms ,  through the depletion of polyadenylated transcripts prior to high - throughput sequencing .
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules lacking poly a tails at thier 3' ends are purified .
a rna extraction process in which only rnas lacking a polya tail are retained
a method for sequencing isoforms by enriching a cdna library for full - length reads spanning entire transcript isoforms .
nucleotide sequences of molecules that are ligated to assay samples prior to sequencing of these samples ;   these sequences are provided by assay kit manufacturers and typically used to combine sequencing of multiple samples in one assay run .
the results of a data transformation of sequence data in which reference subsequences corresponding to ligated library adapters are removed .
the results of a sequence alignment .
the results of a data transformation of sequence data in which files containing aligned sequence data are merged together
the results of a sequence data feature count tabulation .
the results of a dna methylation profiling assay
the results of a differential expression analysis .
a data transformation in which subsequences of a molecular sequence are cut  ( removed )  .
the digital acquisition card acts as the interface between the computer and a measurement device via the computer bus .
a planned process in which statistical techniques are used to give computers the ability to learn about patterns in data ,  without being explicitly programmed .
a machine learning process using a function that maps an input to an output based on example input - output pairs .
a machine learning process that infers a function describing the structure of  \ "unlabeled \ " data  ( i .e .
a study design that investigates the features of interaction between molecules .
a molecular interaction identification design that investigates the co - occurence and correlation of two or more molecules .
a molecular interaction identification design that investigates a phenotype that is the result of two or more genetic perturbations ,  and is not explained by the individual genetic perturbations alone .
a molecular interaction identification design that investigates a relationship that is the result of intermediate steps between two or more molecules that are not necessarily in direct contact with each other .
a molecular interaction identification design that investigates the influence of molecules ,  which are in direct contact ,  on one another .
a direct interaction identification design that investigations a biological reaction on a molecule which has been triggered by an enzyme .
a molecular interaction identification design that investigates intra - molecular interactions between two or more regions of a single molecule .
a chromosome conformation capture - on - chip assay quantitates the products with multiplexed high - throughput sequencing .
a polymerase chain reaction which amplifies dna with only one known sequence from which primers may be designed .
a specimen that is stored on a swab as the output of a collecting specimen with swab process .
a specimen collection process that uses a swab as the collection device .
sequence data in which an identifier subsequence has been used to categorize each reads by source .
sequence data from a sequence library generated from at least two different sources ,  where each read in the sequence data includes base calls from a multiplex identifier sequence that can be used to trace the source of the read to its source .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of an areola of a breast .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a breast .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the cheek portion of the inside surface of a mouth .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a nasopharynx .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the inside surface of a mouth .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a oropharynx .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a rectum .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a tongue .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a vagina .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a feces .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of an environmenal material .
a cohort study design for which the subjects are followed from the time of birth usually including information about gestation and follow up .
a study design for which material and information is collected from subjects that have already developed a particular disease .
a document about the family relationships of persons related as members of a domestic group linked through descent from a common ancestor ,  marriage ,  or adoption .
an information content entity that contains information about a nationwide group of individuals .
a national registry that contains information about individuals that was accumulated for a biomedical purpose ,  such as diagnoses ,  treatments ,  or outcomes .
an induced mutation in which a specific base change is programmed into the sequence of a synthetic primer .
an induced mutation that produces a random mutation ,  either by introducing the organism to mutagens ,  or through a process such as error - prone pcr .
an assay in which a cellular process is replicated from the bottom - up using isolated components in order to observe how the components work together .
a reconstitution assay in which rna synthesis is investigated using rna polymerase ii transcription systems replicated in vitro from their base components .
a dna sequencing assay that intends to provide information on the dna sequences of multiple genomes  ( a metagenome )  from different organisms present in the same input sample .
a study design that entails the creation of two types of roles ,  such that each participant under investigation bears one or the other .
a genetic transformation which reduces the expression of a specific gene or genes in an organism .
a gene knockdown that silences genes through artificially - induced rna interference .
an extract of rna which is produced through rrna  ( ribosomal rna )  depletion  ( the removal of highly abundant rrna species )  .
a gene knockdown assay in which rnai gene knockdown is used to disrupt gene transcripts .
an assay to study transcription through direct rna sequence determination ,  without prior conversion of rna molecules to cdna .
a dna sequencer which is manufactured by the illumina corporation ,  with two flow cells and an output of up to 6000 gb  ( 32 - 40 b reads per run )  .
an rna sequencing assay that uses rna extracts as input that can be traced to a single cell of origin .
a dna sequencer built upon single molecule real - time sequencing technology ,  optimized for generation with long reads and high consensus accuracy ,  and manufactured by the pacific biosciences corporation
a dna sequencer built upon single molecule real - time sequencing technology ,  optimized for generation of highly accurate  (  \ " \ "hifi \ " \ " )  long reads ,  and which is manufactured by the pacific biosciences corporation .
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a disease exacerbation in vivo intervention experiment after adoptive transfer of epitope specific antibodies or b cells .
an efficacy of t cell epitope intervention experiment that detects a decrease in disease after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that detects a decrease in disease after adoptive transfer of epitope specific antibodies or b cells .
an efficacy of t cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment after adoptive transfer of epitope specific antibodies or b cells .
a t cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on pathogen burden after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
a b cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on pathogen burden after adoptive transfer of epitope specific antibodies or b cells .
a t cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on survival after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
a b cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on survival after adoptive transfer of epitope specific antibodies or b cells .
a t cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on tumor burden after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
a b cell epitope in vivo intervention experiment that uses a epitope protection experiment based on tumor burden after adoptive transfer of epitope specific antibodies or b cells .
an efficacy of t cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a tolerance induction intervention experiment after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a tolerance induction intervention experiment after adoptive transfer of epitope specific antibodies or b cells .
an assay that uses a giemsa stain to characterize cells .
a specimen composed of an individual organism to be studied in an investigation .
an organism identification assay that identifies a microorganism in a blood specimen .
a specimen collection that obtains a sample of tissue or cell from a living multicellular organism body for diagnostic purposes by means intended to be minimally invasive .
a biopsy which uses an imaging procedure to guide a needle biopsy .
a needle biopsy guided by real - time computed tomography  ( ct )  scan images .
a needle biopsy guided by ultrasound visualization .
a biopsy that uses a hollow needle to extract cells .
a biopsy that uses a thin needle to extract cells .
a biopsy that uses a hollow tube to collect a core of tissue .
a biopsy involving a surgical incision into an organism to access the biopsy material .
a biopsy involving the collection of a small part of the abdominal wall fat pad .
a biopsy involving the collection of the tip of a mamallian tail .
a biopsy where a small amount of bone and a small amount of fluid and bone marrow are collected .
a biopsy that involves the collection of a cylinder of skin  ( including epidermis ,  dermis and superficial fat )  using a punch tool .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 15 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 16 production by t cells that uses a cytometric bead array assay .
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that detects a hypersensitivity response by monitoring skin reactions after adoptive transfer of epitope specific antibodies or b cells .
an efficacy of t cell epitope intervention experiment that detects epitope specific type iv hypersensitivity after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
a t cell epitope specific proliferation assay that is performed in vivo after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
a t cell epitope specific helper activity assay that detects the ability of a t cell epitope to enhance an antibody response after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
a t cell epitope specific helper activity assay that detects the ability of a t cell epitope to enhance a t cell response after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
a t cell epitope specific killing assay that uses an in vivo cell mediated cell killing assay after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
an assay of epitope specific perforin release by t cells that uses an elisa .
a culture medium that is designed to favor the growth of a particular microorganism or cells over others ,  enriching a sample for the microorganism or cells of interest .
a study design that samples only subjects who have experienced a particular event  ( outcome or exposure )  .
an assay in which multiplexing the construction and interrogation of larger libraries of reporter constructs allows measurement of the transcriptional regulatory activities of thousands to hundreds of thousands of dna sequences .
an efficacy of t cell epitope intervention experiment that is performed after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
an efficacy of b cell epitope intervention experiment that is performed after adoptive transfer of epitope specific antibodies or b cells .
an efficacy of t cell epitope intervention experiment that uses a disease exacerbation in vivo intervention experiment after adoptive transfer of epitope specfic t cells .
a core biopsy needle integrated with a vacuum system which facilitates the collection of specimen material .
an assay that measures the entry in target cells of reporter viral particles that express an envelope protein of a different virus of interest .
a container with a narrow neck that is made of glass .
a glass bottle that coated with material designed to control insects .
a polymerase chain reaction that amplifies short interspersed nuclear elements  ( sines )  .
a polymerase chain reaction with modification intended to reduce non - specific binding in products due to the amplification of unexpected primer binding sites .
an electrophoresis that separates and characterize proteins based on reaction with antibodies .
an electrophoresis in which antigen and antibody move in opposite directions and form precipitates in the area between the cells where they meet in concentrations of optimal proportions .
a linear amplification that uses a thermostable ligase to amplify a piece of dna .
an enzymatic amplification in which a piece of dna is amplified at a constant temperature of 60  -  65 degree c using either two or three sets of primers and a polymerase with high strand displacement activity in addition to a replication activity .
an organism feature identification objective that aims to detect whether an organism contains pathogenic organisms .
an organism feature identification objective that aims to detect insecticide resistance of an insect .
a specimen of the blood ingested by an arthropod .
an assay that uses polymerase chain reaction technique to amplify dna .
an assay that uses digestion of dna with specific restriction enzymes followed by gel electropheresis to detect differences in the sizes of the generated fragments that are due to genetic differences  ( polymorphisms )  in homologous sequences .
an assay to identify a specific individual organism from a dna specimen by looking at unique patterns in their dna .
an assay that aims to detect the presence and / or frequency of resistance to insecticides in an organism or organism population .
an insecticide resistance assay that detects ,  in a population ,  presence and frequency of mutant alleles for previously characterized mutations with insecticide resistance phenotypes .
an insecticide resistance assay that is based on determination the catalytic activity of an enzyme associated with insecticide resistance phenotypes .
an insecticide resistance assay that is typically conducted to measure the effects of a substance on a living organism .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures activity of alpha esterase .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures activity of beta esterase .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures activity of acetylcholinesterase .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures activity of glutathione s - transferase  ( gst )  .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures activity of carboxylic ester hydrolase using p - nitrophenyl acetate as a substrate .
an insecticide resistance by detecting enzyme activity assay that measures whether mixed - function oxidase activity present .
an insecticide resistance bioassay without the use of any synergist .
an insecticide resistance bioassay by adding insecticide directly to the thorax of the insect .
a direct insecticide resistance assay that at preset insecticide dosage scoring mortality to determine resistance of a population .
a direct insecticide resistance assay in which an insect population is exposed to a range of insecticide dosage scoring mortality to determine resistance .
a direct insecticide resistance assay to determine resistance as a consequence of the time of exposure to insecticide .
a direct insecticide resistance diagnostic assay performs in a glass bottle coated with insecticides for detecting resistance to insecticides in vector populations .
a direct insecticide resistance diagnostic assay uses who cone kit .
a direct insecticide resistance diagnostic assay uses who paper kit .
a direct insecticide resistance diagnostic assay tests survival of larvae in a medium supplemented with insecticide .
an insecticide resistance dose response assay that performs in a glass bottle coated with insecticides .
an insecticide resistance dose response assay that tests survival of larvae in a medium supplemented with insecticide .
an insecticide resistance dose response assay using who paper kit .
an insecticide resistance time response assay that is performed in a glass bottle coated with insecticides ,  with the presence of a synergist .
an insecticide resistance time response assay using who paper kit ,  with the presence of a synergist .
an insecticide resistance by monitoring known mutations assay that detects any mutation involving single base changes or small deletions using amplification refractory mutation system  ( arms )  .
an insecticide resistance by monitoring known mutations assay that detects single nucleotide polymorphisms  ( snps )  using pcr technique and mismatched primers that is close to the mutation of interest and digested the pcr productions using restriction enzymes .
an insecticide resistance by monitoring known mutations assay that detects gene mutation based on nested polymerase chain reaction technique .
an insecticide resistance assay that is based on monitoring known mutations using ligase detection reaction exquisitely discriminate between a mismatched and complementary dna helix .
an insecticide resistance by ligase detection reaction assay that uses fluorescently labeled conserved probes in ligase detection reaction .
an insecticide resistance assay that is based on monitoring known mutations by pcr amplification of specific alleles to detect polymorphic or mutant alleles .
an insecticide resistance assay that is based on monitoring known mutations by pcr technique that uses target specific probes labeled with fluorogenic chromophores to detect gene mutation .
an insecticide resistance by monitoring known mutations assay based on restriction fragment length polymorphism assay .
an insecticide resistance assay that is based on monitoring known mutations by pcr amplification of short interspersed elements  ( sines )  .
an assay that aims to detect pathogens .
a pathogen detection assay that identifies the presence or absence of specific peptide epitopes of circumsporozoite  ( cs )  protein of the most important plasmodium falciparum and two strains  ( variants 210 and 247 )  of the more widespread plasmodium vivax using a dipstick wicking test strip .
a pathogen detection assay that is based on rapid analyte measurement platform  ( ramp )  technology to quantify immunologically active substances .
a pathogen detection assay that is based on loop - mediated isothermal amplification .
an assay that analyzes the specimen taken from blood meal fed organism ,  such as insect .
a blood meal assay that uses a counter current immunoelectrophoresis technique .
a dna fingerprinting assay that uses dna extracted from blood meal fed organism ,  such as insect .
an organism identification assay that is based on the size of organism .
an organism identification assay that is based on genetic crossings between specimens collected in the field to determine whether fertile progeny is produced .
an organism identification assay that is based on analysis of polytene chromosomes through cytological examination of the banding pattern of the species .
an organism identification assay that is based on electrophoresis to determine the isozymes that are present in a specific population to determine the species .
an organism identification assay that is based on examination of morphology and the use of specific  \ "taxonomic keys \ " to determine the species of the specimen .
an organism identification assay that is based on pcr .
an organism identification assay that is based on dna hybrdization .
an organism identification assay of mosquito species that is on the basis of mosquito survival depending on the salt concentration in the water used to lay their eggs to differentiate between morphologically very similar species .
a reagent role inhering in a molecular entity intended to associate with some molecular target to serve as a proxy for the presence ,  abundance ,  or location of this target in a detection of molecular label assay .
a molecular reagent intended to associate with some molecular target to serve as a proxy for the presence ,  abundance ,  or location of this target in a detection of molecular label assay
a biopsy performed with a needle augmented with a vacuum device .
a sputum specimen that is collected from an organism following its inhalation of a nebulized salt solution .
a material processing that consists of first growing an organism in an environmental system and then removing the organism to be grown in another environmental system ,  a process which may be repeated with the objective of altering the organism or increasing its number .
a data item that is about the sequence of environmental systems in each of which is grown an organism in a passage process .
a portable dna sequencer which is manufactured by the oxford nanopore technologies corporation ,  that uses consumable flow cells producing up to 30 gb of dna sequence data per flow cell .
a dna sequencer that is manufactured by the oxford nanopore technologies corporation ,  that can run and analyze up to five individual flow cells producing up to 150 gb of data per run .
 a dna sequencer that is manufactured by the oxford nanopore technologies corporation ,  capable of running up to 48 flow cells and producing up to 7 .6 tb of data per run .
precision nuclear run - on and sequencing to detect pol ii initiation sites
a collection of dna molecules with sequences complementary to a specified set of mrna molecules and commonly developed by enzymatic reverse transcription .
a categorical value specification in which the available categories were created with an explicit order .
an rna - seq assay in which highly abundant ribosomal rnas are removed from total rna before sequencing ,  resulting in more efficient transcript / gene detection .
an rna - seq assay that determines the rna sequence of microbial transcripts from a microbioal community of mixed species from a given microbiome .
an analyte assay assay that detects and identifies lipids resulting from biochemical and cellular metabolism .
an atac - seq assay in which single nuclei are isolated from frozen tissue samples ,  through a protocol designed to maximally preserve nucleus integrity during sample processing and optimize transposase - mediated fragmentation of chromatin in individual nuclei .
an amplicon sequencing assay in which the amplicon is derived from universal primers used to amplify the 16s ribosomal rna gene from isolate bacterial genomic dna or metagenomic dna from a microbioal community .
an atac assay designed to robustly map the accessible genome of individual cells ,  using sequencing integrated into a programmable microfluidics platform ,  in order to provide insights into cell - to - cell variation in accessibility profiles .
a protein expression profiling assay of microbial proteins extracted from a microbioal community of mixed species from a given microbiome .
an analyte assay to study presence ,  concentration ,  or amount of cytokines .
a sequencing assay in which a dna or rna input molecule is amplified by pcr and the product sequenced .
a whole metagenome sequencing assay that intends to provide information on multiple genome sequences from different viruses present in the same input sample .
a genetic characteristics information that is about the number and appearance of chromosomes in the nucleus of an eukaryotic cell .
a karyotype information that is about the structural variation of partial genome rather than whole genome .
a karyotype information that is about the structural variation of the whole genome .
an ordinal value specification that indicates that either  \ na )  an analyte or mesaurand is present in an evaluant ,  or  \ nb )  that the amount of analyte / measurand detected is over some predetermined threshold .
an assay that detects the linking of antigens and antibodies via special signaling mechanisms ,  such as eia ,  elisa ,  chemiluminescence ,  etc .
a blood plasma specimen that is the output of some platelet - poor plasma preparation and is the portion of plasma that contains fewer than 10 , 000 platelets per microliter .
a material component separation process in which  ( 1 )  whole blood is first centrifuged to separate red blood cells from blood plasma ,  which forms the supernatant ,  and  ( 2 )  the blood plasma is then centrifuged to separate platelets from the plasm .
the function of a device realized when administering a substance in vivo ,  applied particularly to the forcible insertion of a liquid or gas by means of a syringe ,  pump ,  etc .
a material entity which results from viral transformation process using ebv as transformation agent when applied to b - cell entity
an organism which contains cells or tissues with a different genotype
an anatomical entity is a material entity that is part of a multicellular organism ,  and which is large enough so that it forms an identifiable structure in the organism .
a material entity which corresponds to the liquid component of blood ,  in which the blood cells are suspended .
a material entity which derives from blood and corresponds to blood plasma without fibrinogen or the other clotting factors .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a cell derived from a multicellular organism that has the potential to replicate indefinitely
a material entity which is derived from a  protein
phosphate buffered saline  ( abbreviated pbs )  is a buffer solution commonly used in biochemistry .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
a material entity that represents generations of a primary culture .
a cell line that is expected to be capable of indefinite propagation in an vitro culture .
a material entity which results from the transplantation of living cells ,  tissues or organs  from on organism of one species to an organism of another species .
a processed material comprised of a collection of cultured cells that has been continuously maintained together in culture and shares a common propagation history .
a cultured cell population comprised of cells expanded directly from living tissue prior to being passaged . \ n \ n
a secondary cultured cell population that represents a genetically stable and homogenous population of cultured cells that shares a common propagation history  ( ie has been successively passaged together in culture )  .
a cultured cell population comprised of cells which can all be traced back to a single ancestor cell ,  and which therefore can be treated as identical .
a screening library is a collection of materials engineered to identify qualities of a subset of its members during a screening process?
a synthetic peptide is an material entity which is artificially engineered and results from the synthesis of a chain of amino acids which may also be found in natural protein and be identical in sequence to a protein fragment
a processed material which derives from an organ and results from a process of dissection or histological sample preparation a portion ( formerly an organ section is portion of an organ removed from the context of the organ ) 
group of biomaterials present in the bronchial aveolar space of an organism which are collected through lavage including the reagents used to for the lavage process ,  organisms ,  cells ,  and cellular secretions present in the bronchial aveolar space .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a scattered aggregate of glucose molecules in a liquid
a planned process that produces output data from input data .
a logistic - log curve fitting is a curve fitting where a curve of the form y=d +  (  ( a - d )  /  ( 1 +  ( x / c ) ^b )  )  is obtained ,  where a ,  b ,  c ,  and d are determined so to optimize its fit to the input data points  ( x_1 ,  y_1 )  ,   ( x_2 ,  y_2 )  ,   . . . ,   ( x_n ,  y_n )  .
a logit - log curve fitting is a curve fitting where first the limits y_0 an y_infty of y when x -  > 0 and x -  > infinity ,  respectively ,  are estimated from the input data points  ( x_1 ,  y_1 )  ,   ( x_2 , y_2 )  ,   . . . ,   ( x_n ,  y_n )  .
a log - log curve fitting is a curve fitting where first a logarithmic transformation is applied both to the x and the y coordinates of the input data points  ( x_1 ,  y_1 )  ,   ( x_2 ,  y_2 )  ,   . . . ,   ( x_n ,  y_n )  ,  and then coefficients a and b are determined to optimize the fit of log ( y ) =a + b*log ( x )  to these input data points .
a feature extraction objective is a data transformation objective where the aim of the data transformation is to generate quantified values from a scanned image .
a biexponential transformation is a data transformation that ,  for each  ( one dimensional )  real number input x ,  outputs an approximation  ( found ,  e .g .
a box - cox transformation is a data transformation according to the methods of box and cox as described in the article box ,  g . e . p . and cox ,  d .r .
a hyperlog transformation ia a data transformation that ,  for each  ( one dimensional )  real number input x ,  outputs an approximation  ( found ,  e .g .
a loess scale group transformation one - channel is a loess scale group transformation consisting in the application of a scale adjustment following a loess group transformation one - channel ,  to render the m group variances similar .
a logical transformation is a data transformation that ,  for each  ( one dimensional )  real number input x ,  outputs an approximation  ( found ,  e .g .
a loess scale group transformation two - channel is a loess scale group transformation consisting in the application of a scale adjustment following a loess group transformation two - channel ,  to render the m group variances similar .
a loess global transformation one - channel is a loess global transformation in the special case where the input is the result of an ma transformation applied to intensities from two related one - channel assays .
a split - scale transformation is a data transformation which is an application of a function f described as follows to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
a loess global transformation two - channel is a loess global transformation in the special case where the input the result of an ma transformation applied to intensities from the two channels of a two - channel assay .
a sine transformation is a data transformation which consists in applying the sine function to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
a cosine transformation is a data transformation which consists in applying the cosine function to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
a loess group transformation one - channel is a loess group transformation in the special case where the input is the result of an ma transformation applied to intensities from two related one - channel assays .
a loess group transformation two - channel is a loess group transformation in the special case where the input is the result of an ma transformation applied to intensities from the two channels of a two - channel assay .
a homogeneous polynomial transformation is a polynomial transformation where all the term of the polynomial have the same degree .
a linlog transformation is a data transformation ,  described in pmid 16646782 ,  whose input is a matrix  [ y_ik ]  and whose output is a matrix obtained by applying formula  ( 9 )  of this paper ,  where values below an appropriately determined threshold  ( dependent on the row i )  are transformed via a polynomial of degree 1 ,  and values above this threshold are transformed via a logarithm .
a variance stabilizing transformation is a data transformation ,  described in pmid 12169536 ,  whose input is a matrix  [ y_ik ]  and whose output is a matrix obtained by applying formula  ( 6 )  in this paper .
a loess global transformation is a loess transformation where only one loess fitting is performed ,  utilizing one subset of  ( or possibly all of )  the data points in the input so that there is only one resulting loess curve y=f ( x )  which is used for the transformation .
a loess group transformation is a loess transformation where the input is partitioned into groups and for each group a loess fitting is performed ,  utilizing a subset of  ( or possibly all of )  the data points in that group .
a loess scale group transformation is a data transformation consisting in the application of a scale adjustment following a loess group transformation ,  to render the group variances for the second variable  ( y )  similar .
a total intensity transformation single is a data transformation that takes as input an n - dimensional  ( real )  vector and multiplies each component of this vector by a coefficient ,  where the coefficient is obtained by taking the sum of the input components or of a subset of these ,  multiplied by a constant of choice .
a total intensity transformation paired is a data transformation that takes as input two n - dimensional  ( real )  vectors and multiplies each component of the first vector by a coefficient ,  where the coefficient is obtained by taking the ratio of the sum of the second input components or of a subset of these by the sum of the first input components or of a subset of these  ( the same subset is used for the two vectors )  .
a quantile transformation is a data transformation that takes as input a collection of data sets ,  where each can be thought as an n - dimensional  ( real )  vector ,  and which transforms each data set so that the resulting output data sets have equal quantiles .
a mean centering is a data transformation that takes as input an n - dimensional  ( real )  vector ,  performs a mean calculation on its components ,  and subtracts the resulting mean from each component of the input .
a median centering is a data transformation that takes as input an n - dimensional  ( real )  vector ,  performs a median calculation on its components ,  and subtracts the resulting median from each component of the input .
a differential expression analysis objective is a data transformation objective whose input consists of expression levels of entities  ( such as transcripts or proteins )  ,  or of sets of such expression levels ,  under two or more conditions and whose output reflects which of these are likely to have different expression across such conditions .
k - fold cross - validation randomly partitions the original sample into k subsamples .
is a data transformation :  leave - one - out cross - validation  ( loocv )  involves using a single observation from the original sample as the validation data ,  and the remaining observations as the training data .
jacknifing is a re - sampling data transformation process used to estimate the precision of sampling statistics and is a resampling method
bootstrapping is a statistical method for estimating the sampling distribution of a statistic by sampling with replacement from the original data ,  most often with the purpose of deriving robust estimates of standard errors and confidence intervals of a population parameter like a mean ,  median ,  proportion ,  odds ratio ,  correlation coefficient or regression coefficient
a data transformation process in which the benjamini and hochberg method sequential p - value procedure  is applied with the aim of correcting false discovery rate
a pareto scaling is a data transformation that divides all measurements of a variable by the square root of the standard deviation of that variable .
molecular decomposition is the partition of a network into distinct subgraphs for the purpose of identifying functional clusters .
a k - means clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  which takes as input a collection of objects  ( represented as points in multidimensional space )  and which partitions them into a specified number k of clusters .
a hierarchical clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery objective ,  which takes as input data item and builds a hierarchy of clusters .
an average linkage hierarchical clustering is an agglomerative hierarchical clustering which generates successive clusters based on a distance measure ,  where the distance between two clusters is calculated as the average distance between objects from the first cluster and objects from the second cluster .
an agglomerative hierarchical clustering which generates successive clusters based on a distance measure ,  where the distance between two clusters is calculated as the maximum distance between objects from the first cluster and objects from the second cluster .
a single linkage hierarchical clustering is an agglomerative hierarchical clustering which generates successive clusters based on a distance measure ,  where the distance between two clusters is calculated as the minimum distance between objects from the first cluster and objects from the second cluster .
a data transformation in which the benjamini and yekutieli method is applied with the aim of correcting false discovery rate
a dimensionality reduction is data partitioning which transforms each input m - dimensional vector  ( x_1 ,  x_2 ,   . . . ,  x_m )  into an output n - dimensional vector  ( y_1 ,  y_2 ,   . . . ,  y_n )  ,  where n is smaller than m .
a principal components analysis dimensionality reduction is a dimensionality reduction achieved by applying principal components analysis and by keeping low - order principal components and excluding higher - order ones .
a probabilistic algorithm is one which involves an element of probability or randomness in the transformation of the data .
em is a probabilistic algorithm used to estimate the maximum likelihood of parameters from existing data where the model involves unobserved latent variables .
a network graph quality calculation in which an input data set of subgraph modules and their in - degree and out - degree qualities is used to calculate the average modularity of subgraphs within the network .
a dye swap merge is a replicate analysis which takes as input data from paired two - channel microarray assays where the sample labeled with one dye in the first assay is labeled with the other dye in the second assay and vice versa .
a moving average is a data transformation in which center calculations ,  usually mean calculations ,  are performed on values within a sliding window across the input data set .
a replicate analysis is a data transformation in which data from replicates are combined ,  e .g .
a b cell epitope prediction takes as input an antigen sequence ,  and through an analysis of this sequence ,  produces as output a prediction of the likelihood the biomaterial is a b cell epitope .
an mhc binding prediction takes an input of a biomaterial sequence and through an analysis of this sequence ,  produces as output a prediction of the likelihood that the biomaterial will bind to an mhc molecule .
a t cell epitope prediction takes as input an antigen sequence ,  and through an analysis of this sequence ,  produces as output a prediction of the likelihood the biomaterial is a t cell epitope .
imputation is a means of filling in missing data values from a predictive distribution of the missing values .
a continuum mass spectrum is a data transformation that contains the full profile of the detected signals for a given ion .
quantifying subgraph navigability based on shortest - path length averaged over all pairs of subgraph vertices
a centroid mass spectrum is a data transformation in which many points are used to delineate a mass spectral peak ,  is converted into mass - centroided data by a data compression algorithm .
a data transformation that performs more than one hypothesis test simultaneously ,  a closed - test procedure ,  that  controls the familywise error rate for all the k hypotheses at level  in the strong sense .
edge weighting is the substitution or transformation of edge length using numerical data .
a loess transformation is a data transformation that takes as input a collection of real number pairs  ( x ,  y )  and ,  after performing  ( one or more )  loess fittings ,  utilizes the resulting curves to transform each  ( x ,  y )  in the input into  ( x ,  y - f ( x )  )  where f ( x )  is one of the fitted curves .
a curve fitting is a data transformation that has objective curve fitting and that consists of finding a curve which matches a series of data points and possibly other constraints .
a family wise error rate correction method is a multiple testing procedure that controls the probability of at least one false positive .
a submatrix extraction is a projection whose input is a matrix and whose output is a matrix obtained by selecting certain rows and columns from the input .
a row submatrix extraction is a submatrix extraction where all the columns of the input matrix are retained and selection only occurs on the rows .
a column submatrix extraction is a submatrix extraction where all the rows of the input matrix are retained and selection only occurs on the columns .
gating is a property - based vector selection with the objective of partitioning a data vector set into vector subsets based on dimension values of individual vectors  ( events )  ,  in which vectors represent individual physical particles  ( often cells )  of a sample and dimension values represent light intensity qualities as measured by flow cytometry .
a descriptive statistical calculation objective is a data transformation objective which concerns any calculation intended to describe a feature of a data set ,  for example ,  its center or its variability .
an arithmetic mean calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation in which the mean is calculated by taking the sum of all of the observations in a data set divided by the total number of observations .
a data transformation that takes as input data that describes biological networks in terms of the node  ( a .k .a .
a sequence analysis objective is a data transformation objective which aims to analyse some ordered biological data for sequential patterns .
longitudinal analysis is a data transformation used to perform repeated observations of the same items over long periods of time .
a data transformation objective which has the data transformation aims to model time to event data  ( where events are e .g .
a data transformation which has the objective of spectrum analysis .
a spread calculation is a data transformation that has objective spread calculation .
a nonparametric  ( actuarial )  data transformation technique for estimating time - related events .
a multiple testing correction method is a hypothesis test performed simultaneously on m  >  1 hypotheses .
a data transformation objective of determining the concordance or agreement between human judges .
is a data transformation process in which the westfall and young method is applied with the aim of controlling for multiple testing
a polynomial transformation is a data transformation that is obtained through a polynomial ,  where a polynomial is a mathematical expression involving a sum of powers in one or more variables multiplied by coefficients  ( e .g .
a logarithmic transformation is a data transformation consisting in the application of the logarithm function with a given base a  ( where a > 0 and a is not equal to 1 )  to a  ( one dimensional )  positive real number input .
an exponential transformation is a data transformation consisting in the application of the exponential function with a given base a  ( where a > 0 and a is typically not equal to 1 )  to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
non negative matrix factorization is a data transformation in which factorises a matrix and which forces that all elements must be equal to or greater than zero .
soft independent modeling by class analogy  ( simca )  is a descriptive statistics method for supervised classification of data .
discriminant function analysis is a form of discriminant analysis used to determine which variables discriminate between two or more naturally occurring groups .
canonical variate analysis is a form of discriminant analysis that takes several continuous predictor variables and uses the entire set to predict several criterion variables ,  each of which is also continuous .
linear discriminant functional analysis  ( ldfa )  is a multivariate technique used in special applications where there are several intact groups  ( random assignment may be impossible )  and they have been measured on several independent measures .
regression analysis is a descriptive statistics technique that examines the relation of a dependent variable  ( response variable )  to specified independent variables  ( explanatory variables )  .
multiple linear regression is a regression method that models the relationship between a dependent variable y ,  independent variables xi ,  i = 1 ,   . . . ,  p ,  and a random term epsilon .
the principal component regression method is a regression analysis method that combines the principal component analysis  ( pca ) spectral decomposition with an inverse least squares  ( ils )  regression method to create a quantitative model for complex samples .
partial least squares regression is an extension of the multiple linear regression model  ( see ,  e .g . ,  multiple regression or general stepwise regression )  .
discriminant function analysis is used to determine which variables discriminate between two or more naturally occurring groups .
pls discriminant analysis  ( pls - da )  is a discriminant analysis performed in order to sharpen the separation between groups of observations ,  by hopefully rotating pca  ( principal components analysis )  components such that a maximum separation among classes is obtained ,  and to understand which variables carry the class separating information .
an eh transformation is a data transformation obtained by applying the function eh described in what follows to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
a b transformation is a data transformation obtained by applying the function b described in what follows to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
an s transformation is a data transformation obtained by applying the function s described in what follows to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
an planned process that creates images ,  diagrams or animations from the input data .
a similarity calculation is a data transformation that attaches to each pair of objects in the input a number that is meant to reflect how 'close' or 'similar' those objects are .
an euclidean distance calculation is a similarity calculation that attaches to each pair of real number vectors of the same dimension n the square root of the sum of the square differences between corresponding components .
a pearson correlation coefficient calculation is a similarity calculation which attaches to each pair of random variables x and y the ratio of their covariance by the product of their standard deviations .
a loess fitting is a curve fitting obtained by localized regression .
a mode calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation in which the mode is calculated which is the most common value in a data set .
a quantile calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation in which the kth quantile is the data value for which an approximate k fraction of the data is less than or equal to that value .
a median calculation is a  descriptive statistics calculation in which the midpoint of the data set  ( the 0 .5 quantile )  is calculated .
a variance calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation in which the variance is defined as the average squared distance of each observation in the data set to the mean of the data set .
a standard deviation calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation defined as the square root of the variance .
the interquartile range is a descriptive statistics calculation defined as the difference between the 0 .75 quantile and the 0 .25 quantile for a set of data .
a skewness calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation defined as a parameter that describes how much a distribution  ( or a data set )  varies from a bell - shaped curve .
a kurtosis calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation defined as a parameter that measures how large or small the tails of a distribution are relative to the mean .
a data transformation in which individual input data elements and values are merged together into a output set of data elements and values .
a network analysis in which an input data set describing objects and relationships between objects is transformed into an output representation of these objects as nodes and the relationships as edges of a network graph .
a network graph construction in which an input data set describing objects and quantitative relationships between objects is transformed into and output representation of these objects as nodes and the quantitative relationships as weighted edges of a network graph .
a network graph construction in which an input data set describing objects and directional relationships between objects is transformed into and output representation of these objects as nodes and the directional relationships as directed edges of a network graph .
a network analysis in which an input data set describing node objects and edge relationships between node objects is used to determine the output quality of one of the node objects in the network .
a node quality calculation in which an input data set describing object nodes and relationship edges between object nodes is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships of an individual object node .
a node quality calculation in which an input data set describing object nodes and quantitative relationship edges between object nodes is used to sum all of the quantitative relationships of an individual object node .
a node quality calculation in which an input data set describing object nodes and directional relationship edges between object nodes is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships pointing into an individual object node .
a node quality calculation in which an input data set describing object nodes and directional relationship edges between object nodes is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships pointing out of an individual object node .
a node quality calculation in which a path describing the shortest path needed to transverse through connected nodes and edges to arrive at a specific target node in the network .
a network analysis in which an input data set describing node objects and edge relationships between node objects is used to determine the output quality of one of the edge relationships in the network .
an edge quality calculation in which the input is a data sets of shortest paths between all pairs of node in the network and the output is the sum of all shortest paths that traverse the specific edge .
a network analysis in which an input data set describing node objects and edge relationships between node objects is used to determine the output quality of a subgraph partition of the network .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set describing subgraphs and relationship edges between subgraphs and other network objects is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships of an individual subgraph .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set describing subgraphs and quantitative relationship edges between subgraphs and other network objects is used to sum the quantitative relationships of an individual subgraph .
feature is a  ( parent_class )  that describes a characteristic ,  trait or quality of a data transformation
the log base is a feature of a logarithmic function which is defined in http: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / logarithm .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set describing subgraphs and directional relationship edges between subgraphs and other network objects is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships pointing into an individual subgraph .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set describing subgraphs and relationship edges between subgraphs and other network objects is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships pointing out of an individual subgraph .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set describing internal nodes ,  edges and node degrees is used to determine the average node degree within the subgraph .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set of subgraph in - degree and out - degree qualities is used to calculate the ratio of indegree to outdegree as a measure of modularity .
a network analysis in which an input data set describing node objects and edge relationships between node objects is used to determine the output quality of the network as a whole .
a unit - variance scaling is a data transformation that divides all measurements of a variable by the standard deviation of that variable .
an ma transformation is a data transformation which takes as input a collection of data points  ( g_1 ,  r_1 )  ,   ( g_2 ,  r_2 )  ,   . . . ,   ( g_n ,  r_n )   with the r_i and g_i positive real numbers ,  and whose output is the collection of data points  ( a_1 ,  m_1 )  ,   ( a_2 ,  m_2 )  ,   . . . ,   ( a_n ,  m_n )  where ,  for each i ,  a_i= ( log ( g_i )  + log ( r_i )  )  / 2 and m_i=log ( r_i )  - log ( g_i )  .
the exponential base is a feature of an exponential function which is defined in http: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / exponential_function .
the polynomial degree is a feature of a polynomial function defined as the highest power of the polynomial's terms ,  where the terms of a polynomial are the individual summands with the coefficients omitted .
the number of variables is a feature of any function  ( including polynomial functions )  with domain contained in an n - dimensional vector space and is defined as n ,  the dimension of such space .
an agglomerative hierarchical clustering is a hierarchical clustering which starts with separate clusters and then successively combines these clusters until there is only one cluster remaining .
a divisive hierarchical clustering is a hierarchical clustering which starts with a single cluster and then successively splits resulting clusters until only clusters of individual objects remain .
data partitioning is a data transformation with the objective of partitioning or separating input data into output subsets .
data vector reduction is a data transformation objective in which k m - dimensional input vectors are reduced to j m - dimensional output vectors ,  where j is smaller than k .
a generalized fwer correction method is a multiple testing procedure that controls the probability of at least k + 1 false positives ,  where k is a user - supplied integer .
a quantile number of false positives correction method is a mtp that controls for the pth quantile of the distribution of the number of false positives out of the total number of tests performed'
a tppfp correction method is a mtp that controls the probability that the proportion of false positives among all rejected hypotheses is no greater than a constant q ,  where q is between 0 and 1 .
the false discovery rate is a  data transformation used in multiple hypothesis testing to correct for multiple comparisons .
a proportion of expected false positives correction method is a multiple testing procedure that controls the ratio of the expected value of the numbers of false positives to the expected value of the numbers of rejected hypotheses .
a quantile proportion of false positives correction method is a multiple testing procedure that controls the pth quantile of the distribution of the proportion of false positives among the rejected hypothesis  ( false discovery rate )  .
an objective specification to transformation input data into output data
a normalization objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to remove \ nsystematic sources of variation to put the data on equal footing in order \ nto create a common base for comparisons .
a correction objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to correct for error ,  noise or other impairments to the input of the data transformation or derived from the data transformation itself
a normalization data transformation is a data transformation that has objective normalization .
an averaging data transformation is a data transformation that has objective averaging .
a partitioning data transformation is a data transformation that has objective partitioning .
a partitioning objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to generate a collection of disjoint non - empty subsets whose union equals a non - empty input set .
a background correction objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to remove irrelevant contributions from the measured signal ,  e .g .
a curve fitting objective is a data transformation objective in which the aim is to find a curve which matches a series of data points and possibly other constraints .
a class discovery data transformation  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class discovery .
fisher's exact test is a data transformation used to determine if there are nonrandom associations between two fisher's exact test is a statistical significance test used in the analysis of contingency tables where sample sizes are small where the significance of the deviation from a null hypothesis can be calculated exactly ,  rather than relying on an approximation that becomes exact in the limit as the sample size grows to infinity ,  as with many statistical tests .
a center calculation objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to calculate the center of an input data set .
a class discovery objective  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to organize input data   ( typically vectors of attributes )  into classes ,  where the number of classes and their specifications are not known a priori .
a class prediction objective  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to create a predictor from training data through a machine learning technique .
is a data transformation objective whereby the aim is to the calculate the spread of a dataset ,  spread is a descriptive statistic which describes the variability of values in a data set
a center calculation data transformation is a data transformation that has objective of center calculation .
a data vector reduction is a data transformation that has objective data vector reduction and that consists of reducing the input vectors k to a smaller number of output vectors j ,  where j < k .
is a data transformation objective where all ,  or some of a data set is adjusted by some data transformation according to some scale ,  for example a user defined minimum or maximum
a descriptive statistical calculation data transformation is a data transformation that has objective descriptive statistical calculation and which concerns any calculation intended to describe a feature of a data set ,  for example ,  its center or its variability .
a scaling data transformation is a data transformation that has objective scaling .
an error correction objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to remove  ( correct for )  erroneous contributions arising from the input data ,  or the transformation itself .
a sequence analysis data transformation is a data transformation that has objective sequence analysis and has the aim of analysing ordered biological data for sequential patterns .
a cross validation objective is a data transformation objective in which the aim is to partition a sample of data into subsets such that the analysis is initially performed on a single subset ,  while the other subset ( s )  are retained for subsequent use in confirming and validating the initial analysis .
a merging objective is a data transformation objective in which the data transformation has the aim of performing a union of two or more sets .
a data visualization which has input of a clustered data set and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
adata visualization which has input of a gene list and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
a data visualization which has input of a classified data set and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
a data visualization which has input of a background corrected data set and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
a data transformation which has the objective of performing survival analysis .
proportional hazards model is a data transformation model to estimate the effects of different covariates influencing the times - to - failure of a system .
a data transformation objective in which correlation is obtained  ( often measured as a correlation coefficient ,   )  which indicates the strength and direction of a relationship between two random variables .
is a data transformation objective where the aim is to analyse some aspect of spectral data by some data transformation process .
tandem mass spectrometry is a data transformation that uses two or more analyzers separated by a region in which ions can be induced to fragment by transfer of energy  ( frequently by collision with other molecules )  .
gas chromatography mass spectrometry is a data transformation combining mass spectrometry and   \ ngas chromatography for the qualitative as well as quantitative   \ ndeterminations of compounds .
the chi - square test is a data transformation with the objective of statistical hypothesis testing ,  in which the sampling distribution of the test statistic is a chi - square distribution when the null hypothesis is true ,  or any in which this is asymptotically true ,  meaning that the sampling distribution  ( if the null hypothesis is true )  can be made to approximate a chi - square distribution as closely as desired by making the sample size large enough .
anova or analysis of variance is a data transformation in which a statistical test of whether the means of several groups are all equal .
any design in which the decision as to whether to enroll the next patient ,  pair of patients ,  or block of patients is determined by whether the cumulative treatment difference for all previous patients is within specified limits .
observation design is a study design in which subjects are monitored in the absence of any active intervention by experimentalists .
a collection is a bfo:aggregate object ,  that is a set of material object of the same kind
a pool of specimens is a mixture of a population of samples which have been gathered from one or more sample populations ,  obtained by the physical process of mixing individual specimens ,  e .g .
a material entity  that is made up of at least 2 scattered molecular aggregates ,  one playing the role of solvent and the other one playing the role of solute .
a role which inheres in some molecular entity realized during the process of buffering
solvent role is a role which inheres in a molecular entity capable of ensuring the dissolution of another chemical entity and realized by the process of solvation
solute role is a role played by a chemical entity which is dissolved by another chemical entity  ( the solvent )  when creating a solution
an assay that measures dna damage  ( dna breakage )  in eucaryotic cells exposed to a challenge by determining the size and shape of dna migration by detecting fluorescently labeled dna from a cell placed in an electric field using gel electrophoresis
an assay that identifies dna sequence variation  ( mutation ,  deletion ,  insertions )  in target dna sequences amplified using polymerase chain reaction using gel electrophoresis and denaturating conditions
liver is an anatomical entity which constituent are mainly hepatocytes ,  which has a function of detoxification ,  hematopoietic center ,  glucose and fat metabolism management .
adipose tissue is a tissue which main constituents are adipocytes .
is a polymer which has lost secondary or tertiary structure
decapitated organism is an organism which has had it's head removed
an information content entity which results from a validation process aimed at confirming a claim ,  a finding or a predicted information entity about a material entity or a process by experimental means .
a information content entity that has undergone a digital curation performed by a curator for accuracy checks and compliance with curation requirements .
a role that borne by an organism and realized by some group randomization process
a methylated polymer which has artificially acquired one or more methyl groups
an organism that is the output of a genetic transformation process
a data item that was generated on the basis of a calculation or logical reasoning
a data item which has been processed by a mean centering data transformation where each output value is produced by subtracting the mean from the inout value
a document which is the output of a document editing process
a material entity that has been going through a process of being put into solution
a material separation in which a desired component of an input material is separated from the remainder
filtration is a process which separates components suspended in a fluid based on granularity properties relying on a filter device
centrifugation is a process separating molecules by size or density using centrifugal forces generated by a spinning rotor .
staining is a process which results in the addition a class - specific  ( dna ,  proteins ,  lipids ,  carbohydrates )  dye to a substrate to qualify or quantify the presence of a specific compound .
washing is a process by which a material entity acting as  contaminant  ( e .g .
irradiation is a process by which a material entity is exposed to radiative energy ,  which could be ionizing radiation  ( such as gamma rays or x - rays )   or not such as uv light or microwaves
polymerization is process by which molecular entity of small mass are aggregated in motifs over the course of a chemical reaction catalyzed by enzymes or other molecular entities acting as catalyst .
trypsination is a protease cleavage which uses enzyme trypsin to act on proteins present in an input material entity
an enzymatic ligation is a planned process in which molecules  are joined by covalent bonds through the action of an material entity with a ligase activity
a maintenance process by which material entities that are not actively metabolizing are placed in well identified location and possibly under controlled environment in ad - hoc devices / structures in order to preserve and protect them from decay / alteration and maintain availability
cell lysis is a process by which cell membrane integrity of live cells  is compromised and leads to cell death .
electrocution is process by which electric current is applied to a material with quality alive and result the termination of life process .
cervical dislocation is a process by which a vertebrate organism has its life terminated by rupturing spinal cord between cervical vertebrae induced by excessive mechanical torsion
asphyxiation is a process by which oxygen supplies are restricted  ( by mechanical ,  e .g obstructing airways or chemical means ,  e .g .
intentional overdosing is a process by which an excess dose of a chemical compound is given with the intent of causing death
decapitation is a process by which the head of a living organism is physically removed from the body ,  usually resulting in rapid death  ( in the case of rhodnius prolixus ,  it might take a bit longer . . ) 
a group assignment which relies on chance to assign materials to a group of materials in order to avoid bias in experimental set up .
a process by which a material entity status is modified and conferred a capability of reacting \ n ( this sounds like a circular definition  ,  hugh! ) 
immbolization is a process by which material entity become  ( possibly covalently but not necessarily )  attached to the surface of another material entity used a substratum .
a planned process by which totally or partially complementary ,  single - stranded nucleic acids are  combined into a single molecule called heteroduplex or homoduplex to an extent depending on the amount of complementarity .
the process of extracting one material from another by washing with a solvent to remove adsorbed material from an adsorbent  ( as in washing of loaded ion - exchange resins to remove captured ions ) 
a material separation process by which repetitive genomic dna is removed during the construction of cdna library .
is a planned process with specified input original document and specified output edited document
a process by which an  event or an entity is described before it actually happens or is being discovered and identified .
a planned process with objective to check that the accuracy or the quality of a claim or prediction  satisfies some criteria and which is assessed by comparing with independent results
a process in which a significant increase in the electrical conductivity and permeability of the cell plasma membrane caused by an externally applied electrical field .
digital curation is the process of establishing and developing long term repositories of digital assets for current and future reference by researchers ,  scientists ,  and historians ,  and scholars generally .
a a10 is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by apogee .
a a40 - minifcm is a flow_cytometer_analyser that allows for the choice of one of four lasers  ( 375nm ,  405nm , 488nm ,  532nm ,  635nm )  ,  and pmts and filters for collecting up to four parameters .
an analog - to - digital_converter is an instrument that converts an infinite resolution analog signal to a finite resolution digital signal .
an analyser is a flow_cytometer that is used to measure properties of particles  ( whole cells ,  nuclei ,  chromosomes ,  diatoms ,  plankton ,  bacteria ,  viruses )  by moving these particles through a detection chamber .
arc lamp is a light source that produces light by an electric arc  ( or voltaic arc )  .
an argon - ion laser is an ion laser that uses argon ions as the lasing medium .
an avalanche photodiode is typically used to collect photons emitted by forward scatter because it is far less sensitive ,  and less likely o be burned out ,  than a pmt .
a bactiflow is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by chemunex sa .
a band pass filter is an optical filter that passes wavelengths of light within a certain range and rejects  ( attenuates )  frequencies outside that range .
a biosorter1000 is a flow_cytometer_sorter manufactured by union biometrica .
a biosorter2000 is a sorter manufactured by union biometrica .
a biosorter250 is a flow_cytometer_sorter manufactured by union biometrica .
a biosorter500 is a flow_cytometer_sorter manufactured by union biometrica .
a cell lab quanta sc is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by becman coulter .
part of the fluidics subsystem .
part of the fluidics subsystem .
a cyan is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by dako cytomation .
a cyflow_ml is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by partec .
a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by partec .
a cyflow_sl3 is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by partec .
a cyflow_space is a flow_cytometer_sorter manufactured by partec .
a flow cytometer analyser which is manufactured by cyto buoy inc .
a cytosense is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by cyto buoy inc .
a cytosub is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by cyto buoy inc .
a dichroic filter is an optical filter which is used to selectively pass light of a small range of colors while reflecting other colors .
a dichroic mirror is an optical filter which is used to selectively reflect light of a small range of colors while passing other colors .
part of the fluidics subsystem .
a diode laser is a laser in which the active medium is a p - n junction semiconductor laser diode ,  similar to that found in a light - emitting diode .
a dye laser is a laser in which the lasing medium is a fluorescent dye ,  usually dissolved in an organic solvent such as ethanol or ethylene glycol .
the facs calibur is one of the most popular cytometers in use for research .
a facs_canto is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by becton dickinson .
a facs_canto2 is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by bd .
a facs_scan is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by becton dickinson .
a fascsaria is a flow_cytometer_sorter manufactured by becton dickinson .
the facsvantage is a flow_cytometer_sorter manufactured by becton dickinson .
a fc_500 is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by beckman coulter .
aparatus in the fluidic subsystem where the sheath and sample meet .
a flow_cytometer is an instrument for counting ,  examining and sorting microscopic particles in suspension .
part of the fluidic subsystem .
a gas laser is a laser in which the lasing medium is a gas .
a guava_easycyte_mini is a flow_cytometer_analyser that includes a single 488 nm laser ,  and filters and pmts to collect up to 3 fluorescent parameters .
a guava_easycyte_plus system is a flow_cytometer_analyser that includes a single 488 nm laser ,  and filters and pmts to collect up to 4 fluorescent parameters .
a  guava_personal_cell_analysis system is a flow_cytometer_analyser that includes a single 532 nm laser ,  and filters and pmts to collect up to 2 fluorescent parameters .
the guava_personal_cell_analysis - 96 systems is a flow_cytometer_analyser that includes a single 532 nm laser ,  and filters and pmts to collect up to 2 fluorescent parameters .
a helium - cadmium laser is a metal vapor laser that emits wavelengths of 442 ,  325 and 354 nms .
a helium - neon laser  ( hene )  is an ion laser that uses helium and neon gas - ions as lasing medium .
the imagestream is a multispectral_imaging_flow_cytometer manufactured by amnis .
the influx analyzer is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by cytopeia .
a influx cell sorter is a flow_cytometer_sorter manufactured by cytopeia .
point within the fluidic subsystem at which the laser intersects the stream ,  illuminating the cells where they emit their fluorescence and scatter the light .
an ion laser is a gas laser which uses an ionized gas as its lasing medium .
a flow cell in which the cells are pinched off as droplets and allowed to drop through the air .
a krypton - ion laser is an ion laser that uses krypton as the lasing medium .
a lactoscope_c4 is a spectrophotometer with which the composition of milk and milk products is analysed via infrared technology .
a laser  ( acronym for light amplification by the stimulated emission of radiation )  is a light source that emits photons of the same characteristics in a coherent beam .
a light source is an optical subsystem that provides light for use in a distant area using a delivery system  ( e .g . ,  fiber optics )  .
a logarithmic voltage amplifier is an analog electronic circuit that puts out a voltage or current proportional to the voltage or current at its input ,  with logarithmic proportionality .
a long pass filter is an optical filter that passes high wavelengths of light but attenuates  ( or reduces )  wavelengths lower than the cutoff frequency .
a lsr2 is a sorter manufactured by becton dickinson .
the luminex 100 is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by luminex .
a luminex_200 is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by luminex .
a macs quant is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by miltenyi .
a metal vapor laser is a gas laser in which the lasing medium is metal vapor .
a mixed argon krypton gas laser is an ion laser in which the lasing medium is a mixture of argon and krypton .
a moflo is a flow_cytometer_sorter manufactured by dako cytomation .
a particle deliver vessel .a multi - well plate is a vessel that can deliver multiple samples to a flow cytometer in a specified order .
a neodymium - yag  ( yttrium aluminum garnet )  laser is a solid state laser in which the lasing medium is a solid rod of crystalline material pumped by a flash lamp or a diode laser .
an obscuration bar is a an optical subsystem which is a strip of metal or other material that serves to block out direct light from the illuminating beam .
an optical filter is an optical subsystem that selectively transmits light having certain properties  ( often ,  a particular range of wavelengths ,  that is ,  range of colours of light )  ,  while blocking the remainder .
a device or part of a device that deals with the behavior and properties of light and the interaction of light with matter .
part of the fluidics subsystem .
a photodetector is a device used to detect and measure the intensity of radiant energy through photoelectric action .
a photodiode is a semiconductor photodetector used to detect light and generate an electrical current .
a photomultiplier is a device that is normally in the form of a tube ,  that uses a photocathode to convert photons into photoelectrons which are then amplified .
apparatus in the fluidic subsystem of sorters that vibrates to break up the stream coming out of the flow chamber into droplets for sorting .
part of the fluidics system .
a preamplifier is part of the electronics subsystem .
a flow cell in which the laser irradiates the cell as it passes through a quartz cuvette .
a reflection is a sorter manufactured by icyte .
a particle delivery vessel .the cytometer sample tube is a vessel in which the sample is introduced to the cytometer .
part of the fluidics system .
a short pass filter is an optical filter that passes low wavelengths of light but attenuates  ( or reduces )  wavelengths higher than the cutoff frequency .
a solid - state laser is a laser that uses a lasing medium that is a solid ,  rather than a liquid such as dye lasers or a gas such as gas lasers .
a somacount is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by bently instruments .
the somascope is an instrument to quantify somatic cells in milk .
a flow_cytometer_sorter is a flow_cytometer that analyzes and separates or sorts particles passing through  ( based on properties measured during analysis )  to collect cells of interest .
part of the fluidics system .
a voltage amplifier is a device that amplifies the voltage signal .
part of the fluidics systems .
a dna sequencer is an instrument that determines the order of deoxynucleotides in deoxyribonucleic acid sequences .
an processed material which acquires images of fluorescence  ( induced with lasers )  from labeled molecules on the surface of the microarray chip
a device which deposits biological material onto a substrate in a defined pattern .
a device with a rapidly rotating container that applies centrifugal force to its contents
a computer is an instrument which manipulates  ( stores ,  retrieves ,  and processes )  data according to a list of instructions .
a heating block is an instrument or part of an instrument which raises or maintains the temperature of a sample to a defined constant temperature during certain parts of an assay
a homogenizer is an instrument for the homogenization of various types of material ,  such as tissue ,  plant ,  food ,  soil ,  and many others .
a device which is used to maintain constant contact of a liquid on an array .
a device which is used to maintain the temperature of one or more hybridization_chamber ( s )  at a defined ,  constant temperature .
a device that is used for automated liquid transfer and handling .
an instrument used to chemically synthesize oligonucleotides .
a device that converts a variable electrical current to mechanical vibration of a metallic probe .
a spectrophotometer is an instrument that measures the intensity of light as a function of the color ,  or more specifically ,  the wavelength of light ,  transmitted by a substance .
an instrument that is capable of repeatedly altering and maintaining specific temperatures for defined periods of time .
an instrument which removes liquid by the application of negative pressure ,   i .e .
a vortexer is an instrument that mixes small vials of liquid by creating a rotation of the liquid around its own center .
a device that is used to wash affymetrix - type arrays .
a temperature_control_bath is a device that has the function to regulate the temperature of a material ,  the function to contain fluid and the function to vary and maintain the temperature of the contained fluid .
a device that is able to chemically join two or more molecules .
an image_cytometer is an instrument for image - based study or measurement of cells .
a cytometer is an instrument for counting and measuring cells .
a device which holds a gel and running buffers to allow electrophoresis to be performed .
a power supply is an device or part of a device that permits the required application of a defined electrical charge to an instrument .
a fluorometer is an instrument for the detection and measurement of parameters of fluoresence ,  which in turn are used to identify the presence and amount of specific molecules in the sample .
a multispectral_imaging_flow_cytometer is an instrument which combines quantitative image analysis and flow cytometry in a single platform .
a processed material that is made to be used in an analyte assay .
a dna - microarray is a microarray that is used as a physical 2d immobilisation matrix for dna sequences .
a protein - microarray is a microarray ,  ususlly a piece of glass ,  on which different molecules of protein have been affixed at separate locations in an ordered manner .
a droplet sorter is part_of a flow cytometer sorter that converts the carrier fluid stream into individual droplets ,  and these droplets are directed into separate locations for recovery  ( enriching the original sample for particles of interest based on qualities determined by gating )  or disposal .
a water bath is a temperature control bath in which a water acts as contact medium enabling temperature transfer from the heating element or cooling element to the sample .
an oil bath is a temperature control bath in which oil acts as contact medium for the temperature transfer  ( from heating or cooling elements to the sample )  .
a digital - to - analog_converter is an instrument that converts a finite resolution digital signal into an infinite resolution analog signal .
a microtome is a mechanical instrument used to cut biological specimens into very thin segments for further treatment  ( e .g .
a microscope is an instrument which magnifies the view on objects  ( too small to be viewed by the naked eye )  under increased resolution .
a microscope slide is a device usually made of glass which is used as a solid matrix for  ( biological )  material deposited on its surface and which is compatible for use with a microscope instrument
a processed material which has the function to define a bounded habitat which is amenable to keeping animals .
a plan specification comprised of protocols  ( which may specify how and what kinds of data will be gathered )  that are executed as part of an investigation and is realized during a study design execution .
plan for the precise procedure to be followed in a clinical trial ,  including planned and actual timing of events ,  choice of control group ,  method of allocating treatments ,  blinding methods ;  assigns a subject to pass through one or more epochs in the course of a trial .
a study design which use the same individuals and exposure them to a set of conditions .
a repeated measure design which ensures that experimental units receive ,  in sequence ,  the treatment  ( or the control )  ,  and then ,  after a specified time interval  ( aka *wash - out periods* )  ,  switch to the control  ( or treatment )  .
n - of - 1 design is a cross - over design in which the same patient is repeatedly randomised to receive either the experimental treatment or its control  ( senn ,  1993 )  .
a matched pair design is a study design which use groups of individuals associated  ( hence matched )  to each other based on a set of criteria ,  one member going to one treatment ,  the other member receiving the other treatment .
a parallel group design or independent measure design is a study design which uses unique experimental unit each experimental group ,  in other word no two individuals are shared between experimental groups ,  hence also known as parallel group design .
a randomized complete block design is_a study design which assigns randomly treatments to block .
balanced incomplete block design is a kind of factorial design where all treatment pairs occur together within a block an equal number ??
a loop experiment design is where labeled extracts are compared in consecutive pairs .
a reference experiment design type is where all samples are compared to a common reference .
latin square design is_a study design which allows in its simpler form controlling 2 levels of nuisance variables  ( also known as blocking variables )  .he 2 nuisance factors are divided into a tabular grid with the property that each row and each column receive each treatment exactly once .
greco - latin square design is a study design which relates to latin square design
prs to do
factorial design is_a study design which is used to evaluate two or more factors simultaneously .
a factorial design which has 2 experimental factors  ( aka independent variables )  and 2 factor levels per experimental factors
a fractional factorial design is_a study design in which only an adequately chosen fraction of the treatment combinations required for the complete factorial experiment is selected to be run
an experiment design type where the label orientations are reversed .
a replicate experimental design type is where a series of replicates are performed to evaluate reproducibility or as a pilot study to determine the appropriate number of replicates for a subsequent experiments .
a study design that investigates variance and error estimates in the experimental system ,  and is where the same extract is compared .
groups of assays that are related as part of a time series .
a stopping rule  ( criterion )  is_a *rule* which causes a *stopping process* to happen
a compliance rule is a rule which ensures a compliance process occurs
a  standard compliance rule is a compliance rule which defines conformity to a representation standard
an ethical standard compliance rule is_a *compliance rule* which enable a  *ethical compliance process* to occur
an eligibility criterion  ( rule )  is_a selection criterion which  \ ndefines and states the requirements  ( positive or negative )  for an entity to be considered as suitable for a given task or participation in a process . \ n
an inclusion criterion  ( rule )  is_a *eligibility criterion*  which defines and states a condition which ,  if met ,  makes an entity suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
an exclusion criterion  ( rule )  is_a *eligibility criterion*  which defines and states a condition which ,  if met ,  makes an entity unsuitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
is process in which a material substance is added to a cell culture
an assay that determines the grade  ( severity / stage )  of a tumor sample ,  used in cancer biology to describe abnormalities / qualities of tumor cells or tissues .
a protocol application during which a series of tests are made of a patient leading to determination of disease state ,  or condition .
a planned process with the objective to obtain a population of human subjects to participate in an investigation by determining eligibility of subjects and obtaining informed consent .
a process with the objective to obtain a material entity that was part of an organism for potential future use in an investigation
a protocol application in which an organism is intentionally put to death
a process by which a substance is intentionally given to an organism resulting in exposure of the organism to that substance .
the planned process of gaining possession of a continuant
a planned process in which an input material is exposed to a defined set of conditions in a controlled environment .
an acquisition in which possession of a material entity is gained .
a protocol application in which an object is left in an environment for some period of time ,  until some qualities of interest are in equilibrium with that environment .
environmental_material_collection is an acquisition where an object is taken from an environment and put into a storage container .
an acquisition in which possession of information is gained .
a material processing in which components of an input material become segregated in space
group assignment is a process which has an organism as specified input and during which a role is assigned
physical combination of several instances of like material
an assay that detects the presence or a quality of a molecular label which is a proxy for the detection of the molecular target to which the label is attached
a material processing in which the input substance is partitioned into a number of portions that are similar in composition .
the addition of a reagent labeling the entire input biomaterial enabling future detection of the output biomaterial
an assay that uses visual examination of cells or tissue  ( or images of them )  to make an assessment regarding a quality of the cells or tissue .
a protocol application to preserve defined  qualities of cells or tissues  ( sample )  which may otherwise change over time
the use physical means to remove a portion of a substance from the rest
an enzymatic cleavage that uses an enzyme without a strong affinity for specific cleavage sites in the input material
a protocol application in which cells are kept alive in a defined environment outside of an organism .
an assay that detects a specified substance
an assay that measures the mass of a material at two or more time points
a material transformation to break the membranes of cells ,  releasing the cells contents ;  input= > cells ;  output= > cell_lysate
a protocol with the objective to transcribe single - stranded rna into complementary dna  ( cdna ) 
a protocol which results in the separation of supernatant material from a cell culture
a protocol application to induce a specific disease in an organism
a cytometry assay in which cells are cultured on a surface coated with a capture antibody binding a secretory material of interest which subsequently gets stained resulting in a spot for each cell producing the secretory material of interest .
a protocol application to repair damaged dna molecules
a protocol application to permeabilize cell membranes ,  allowing molecules to more easily pass through the membrane than was possible prior to the protocol application
a protocol application to cause a material to precipitate  ( becoming a solid )  out of solution .
a process through which a new type of cell culture or cell line is created ,  either through the isolation and culture of one or more cells from a fresh source ,  or the deliberate experimental modification of an existing cell culture  ( e .g passaging a primary culture to become a secondary culture or line ,  or the immortalization or stable genetic modification of an existing culture or line )  .
the act of taking part of a homogeneous cell culture and creating one or more additional separate cultures of similar qualities .
a material processing technique intended to add a molecular label to some input material entity ,  to allow detection of the molecular target of this label in a detection of molecular label assay
a planned process of adding methyl groups to polymers
the construction of a biomaterial from simpler biomaterials
a protocol application to create an output material with an increased density of a material of interest that is part of the input material by separating other parts of the input material
the insertion of a particular dna fragment into a plasmid in order to make copies of a biomaterial
the introduction .alteration or integration of genetic material into a cell or organism
a protocol application to separate cells and / or cellular secretions from an anatomical space by the introduction and removal of fluid
an assay that determines the 3 - dimensional configuration of an input material .
the use of a biomaterial's preferential affinity for either the mobile phase or the stationary phase to separate it from other materials of differing affinity
an assay the uses chemical or biochemical means to infer the sequence of a biomaterial
the process of creating a copy of some biological entity in cell culture
dna polymerase amplification is an enzymatic amplification which uses dna polymerase enzyme to make copies of a dna contained in biomaterial used as input
an enzymatic cleavage that uses an enzyme with a strong affinity for specific cleavage sites in the input material
a protocol application that uses different concentrations of materials in a defined order to create a gradient to facilitate the separation of an input material into its components with specific qualities
a protocol application that uses diffusion through a semi - permeable membrane to separate an input material into two fractions of different composition
a protocol application that uses an electrical potential to move material through a defined matrix in order to separate it by its resistance to movement and its charge
the use of environmental conditions to select for the organism or cells that have a certain trait
a specific enzymatic cleavage of dna molecules using endonucleases that cleave dna molecules at specific sites based on the surrounding nucleotide sequence
protease cleavage is an enzymatic cleavage which relies on enzyme with protease activity to act on proteins and produce polypeptides  ( protein fragments )  .
the use of enzymes to duplicate dna molecule any process used to make additional copies of a biomaterial
the use of enzymes to increase the number of molecules of a biomaterial
a genetic transformation which relies on the use of lysogenic infection to transfer dna sequences into an organism
a transfection which relies on the use of physical ,  electrical and chemical phenomena to introduce dna into a cell
vector mediated expression sis the generation of copies of biomaterial by in a cell_culture modified for this purpose by insertion of an expression vector
a planned process with the objective to insert genetic material into a cloning vector for future replication of the inserted material
place holder class ,  see editor note
a labeling in which the labeling reagent used  has a specificity to bind only certain components of the input material
a rna extraction is a nucleic acid extraction where the desired output material is rna
a material separation to recover the nucleic acid fraction of an input material
supernatant of a cell culture is a material entity which contains media ,  supplements ,  and secreted products of the cells and becomes the environment of cultivated cell .
a material entity which results from the aggregation of cells produced by the application of centrifugal force to a liquid containing cells in suspension
a phage display library is a collection of materials in which a mixture of genes or gene fragments is expressed and can be individually selected and amplified .
a cell lysate is a material entity which is output of a cell lysis process
a material entity synthesized to contain a number of peptides conjugated together in a non - linear fashion
a transgenic organism is material entity which derives from an organism which has been modified to express a gene not normally part of it
a whole organism preparation resulting from a histological preparation known as whole mount preparation where the whole specimen is mounted or spread on the microscope  ( glass )  slide
a globular or round particle of defined physicochemical properties and size which can be exploited as either the primary substance for detection or as a secondary solid platform for the attachment of bioactive molecules .
a material entity bearing the epitope role
an occurrence of disease is a process involving pathologic changes within an organism
a process in which an infectious agent comes into physical contact with a host organism .
is an administration of an infectious agent to a host organism
is an occurrence of a disease caused by an infection
the role borne by a material entity that is realized when it is recognized by the immune system and results in the occurrence of an allergic disease .
an allergic reaction is an pathologic immune response by an organism to a non - self entity that is normally harmless ( the allergen ) 
the process of an allergic disease occurring in an organism .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 2 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
is the process in which an adaptive immune receptor binds to a material entity  ( realizing its disposition )  .
process of administering an object playing the role of immunogen to a living organism
a function realized as an immune response ,  which inheres in a t cell ,  b cell or antibody which derives from or is produced by a cell with prior antigen experience .
a process in which a a human being lives in the same household as another human being that is known to be infected with an infectious agent
a process in which a potential host organism lives in a geographic area in which an infectious agent is present to such a degree of frequency that contact is likely
a process in which a an infectious agent maintained in a laboratory setting is not contained as planned ,  leading to potential exposure of human beings to the agent
process of administering an object playing the role of immunogen to a cell culture
the detrimental process in which an infectious agent colonizes or replicates in a host environment
is a receptor produced by cells of the adaptive immune system with the purpose of binding epitopes .
a material entity bearing the immunogen role
is a process in which an infectious agent is in direct contact with a potential host organism in its habitat .
an organism in which an immune response process occurs .
a cell line derived from human embryonic kidney cells .
a cell line derived from human b cells .
is the administration of an infectious agent to a cell culture with the objective to have the agent colonize and replicate in culture
a cell line derived from mouse  ( c57bl / 6n )  lymphoma cells .
a cell line derived from human cervical cancer cells .
a cell line derived from mouse dendritic cells .
is a material entity that has the antigen role
a cell line derived from human t cells .
the jy cell line is an epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  - immortalised b cell lymphoblastoid line .
an immune epitope assay that detects t cell epitope recognition .
a cell line derived from a mouse lymphoma ,  specifically a rauscher virus - induced tumor .this cell ine is antigen processing - defective and expresses a very low level of mhc molecules on its surface .
a human t - b lymphoblastoid hybrid cell line
is a disease caused by an infectious agent
a cell specimen comprised of a mixed population of cells obtained by processing whole lymph node into individual cells ,  typically performed using a sieve .
a mixed cell population that is characterized by its ability to bind to tissue culture flasks or plates .
a mixed cell population obtained by processing whole blood .
is the disposition borne by a material entity that is realized in a process of being bound by a adaptive immune receptor .
the process of removing an organ from its source organism
a t cell population characterized by expressing the cd3 molecule on its surface .
a t cell population characterized by not expressing the cd3 molecule on its surface .
is a disease in which an abnormally strong inflammatory immune response is triggered against non - self entities ,  and the immune response has no protective effect
a t cell population characterized by not expressing the cd4 molecule on its surface .
a t cell population characterized by not expressing the cd8 molecule on its surface .
a t cell population characterized by not expressing the cd4 nor the cd8 molecule on its surface .
a disease characterized by abnormal and uncontrolled cell division
is a disease characterized by an immune response of an organism against parts of itself
placeholder to be imported from disease ontology
a biological process where t cells produce il - 2 resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a process of an mhc molecule binding to an entity playing the role of epitope to create an mhc:epitope complex which is then bound by a tcr molecule .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - gamma production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
a process in which an organism  ( host )  is exposed to some material entity ,  which results in an immune reactivity
any entity capable of eliciting an immune response when introduced to components of the immune system
is a role borne by an organism .
the function inhering in a t cell that is realized in an immune response that results from the t cell receptor binding to the mhc:epitope complex .
a function inhering in a cell  that expresses mhc molecules which is realized in the process of antigen processing and presentation of antigen derived parts by mhc molecules on the cell surface .
the role played by an mhc molecule by binding a material entity playing the role of epitope when that epitope / mhc molecule pair are recognized  ( bound )  by a tcr molecule on the surface of a cell playing the role of effector cell .
a role which inheres in an organism or part thereof from which any part including cell ,  organ or tissue is removed with the intention that the donated part will be placed into another organism and / or cultured in vitro .
a role inhering in a material entity that is covalently bound to an epitope in order to increase the epitopes immunogenicity .
adjuvant role is a role that inheres in a material entity and which is realized through a process of modifying a biological response .
is a role borne by an agent ,  and realized when in contact with or inside another organism in which it is capable of replicating and causing disease
the process of an epitope that is part of or derived from an immunogen coming into contact with adaptive immune cells resulting in these cells acquiring immune effector functions specific for the epitope .
a material separation where blood is taken from an organism .
a cell line derived from mouse fibroblasts .
a cell culture including cells that have an antigen presentation function
a cell culture including cells that have an effector t cell function
a material that is added to another one in a material combination process
a material entity into which another is being added in a material combinatino process
is a process in which an infectious agent comes close enough to a potential host organism in its habitat that a contact can result
a process in which a vector carrying an infectious agent comes close enough to a potential host organism that a contact can result
a cell specimen comprised of a mixed cell population obtained by processing whole spleen into individual cells ,  typically performed using a sieve or blender .
a cell line derived from mouse mastocytoma .
any molecule recognized by the adaptive immune receptors?
abnormal ,  harmful processes caused by or associated with a disease
a t cell epitope recognition assay that qualitatively detects mhc:epitope complex binding to tcr .
a mhc ligand assay that determines what ligands are processed and loaded onto mhc molecules by eluting ligands and identifying them .
a mhc ligand assay that detects the binding of a ligand to an mhc molecule .
an immune epitope assay that detects b cell epitope recognition .
an assay that detects the binding of an epitope to an adaptive immune receptor or a immune response process resulting from such a binding event
a t cell epitope dependent biological activity assay that detects cytokine production .
a t cell epitope dependent biological activity assay that detects the killing of an antigen presenting cell  ( apc )  by a t cell whose tcr recognizes an epitope presented by the apc .
a t cell epitope dependent biological activity assay that detects t cell proliferation .
a transmembrane glycoprotein that serves as a co - receptor for the t cell receptor .
a t cell epitope specific killing assay performed in vitro that uses a chromium release assay .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - gamma production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 2 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 4 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 5 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
a t cell epitope specific tumor necrosis factor production assay that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 10 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 6 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 13 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 12 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 1 beta production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 17 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 18 production by t cells that uses an elisa .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 4 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
a t cell epitope specific tumor necrosis factor production assay that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 10 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 13 production by t cells that uses an elispot assay .
an assay of epitope specific interferon - gamma production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 2 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a t cell epitope specific tumor necrosis factor production assay that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 4 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 10 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
an assay of epitope specific interleukin - 17 production by t cells that uses an intracellular cytokine staining assay .
a t cell epitope qualitative binding assay that uses an mhc multimer staining assay .
a t cell epitope specific proliferation assay performed on cells in vitro that uses a tritiated thymidine incorporation assay .
a t cell epitope specific proliferation assay performed on cells in vitro that uses a brdu incorporation assay .
a biological process where t cells proliferate resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a biological process where t cells produce gm - csf resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a biological process where t cells produce ifng resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a biological process where t cells produce il - 10 resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a biological process where t cells produce il - 12 resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a biological process where t cells produce il - 13 resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a biological process where t cells produce il - 17 resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a biological process where t cells produce il - 18 resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a biological process where t cells produce il - 1b resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a biological process where t cells produce il - 4 resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a material entity bearing the disposition to cause an allergic reaction
a biological process where t cells produce il - 5 resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a biological process where t cells produce il - 6 resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
a biological process where t cells lyse antigen presenting cells resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope on mhc molecules of the antigen presenting cell .
a biological process where t cells produce tnf resulting from the recognition of a t cell epitope .
an assay that determines information about the production of the cytokine interferon gamma
a report about experiments in an investigation that characterize immune epitopes ,  and was submitted directly by the authors to the immune epitope database  ( iedb ) 
a specimen that has been fixed in formalin and embedded in paraffin .
a specimen that is derived from some uterine cervix
a specimen that is derived from some urethra
a specimen that is derived from some cervical mucus
a specimen that is derived from some throat
a specimen that is derived from some eye
a specimen that is derived from some respiratory system
a specimen that is derived from some upper respiratory tract
a specimen that is derived from some nasopharynx
a specimen that is derived from some semen
a specimen that is derived from some bodily fluid
a specimen that is derived from some chorionic villus
a specimen that is derived from some meconium
a specimen that is derived from some umbilical cord blood
a specimen that is derived from some arterial blood
a specimen that is derived from some venous blood
a specimen that is derived from some capillary blood
a specimen that is derived from some erythrocytes
a specimen that is derived from some reticulocytes
a specimen that is derived from some leukocytes
an in vitro cell killing assay in which radioactive chromium is absorbed by cells and released into supernatant when the cells die .
a series of statements representing health - relevant qualities of a patient and of a patient's family .
a  ( combination of )  quality ( ies )  of an organism determined by the interaction of its genetic make - up and environment that differentiates specific instances of a species from other instances of the same species .
a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
the totality of all processes through which a given disease instance is realized .
the representation of a conclusion of a diagnostic process .
a planned process whose completion is hypothesized by a health care provider to eliminate ,  prevent ,  or alleviate the signs and symptoms of a disorder or pathological process
a processed specimen that is the output of a fixation process .
a fixed tissue specimen that is placed in a slide .
a human health care role inhering in an organization or human being that is realized by a process of providing health care services to an organism .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
a luminous flux quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's emitting longer wavelength light following the absorption of shorter wavelength radiation ;  fluorescence is common with aromatic compounds with several rings joined together .
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a quality in which events occur in sequence .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population that only produces gametes that can be fertilised by male gametes .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population whose sex organs contain only male gametes .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer has been harmed or injured or spoiled .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of force per unit area it exerts .
a concentration which relatively low .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being harmed or injured or spoiled ,  such that its functionality is impaired .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the side relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the abdomen of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the back or upper surface of an organism relative to another entity .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
a scalar optical quality which obtains by the magnitude of the light emitted by the bearer .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a mating type that indicates whether the f plasmid has integrated into the chromosome .
a yeast mating type .
a biological sex quality inhering in a population of multiple sexes .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's homogeneity of a biomaterial .
a biological sex quality inhering in an organism or a population with both male and female sexual organs in one individual .
a s . cerevisiae mating type cells that secrete a pheromone that in alpha haploids stimulates processes that lead to mating .
a s . cerevisiae mating type .
a s . pombe mating type determined by the gene configuration on the mat1 locus .
a s . cerevisiae mating type cells that secrete a pheromone that stimulates a haploids .
a s . pombe mating type determined by the mat1 - mc and mat1 - mi on the mat1 locus .
a s . pombe mating type determined by the mat1 - pc and mat1 - pi on the mat1 locus .
a bacterial mating type indicating the presence of f plasmid in a bacterial cell .
a bacterial mating type indicating the absence of f plasmid in a bacterial cell .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's number of homologous sets of chromosomes in the nucleus or primary chromosome - containing compartment of the cell ,  each set essentially coding for all the biological traits of the organism .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing a single set of homologous chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing more than two homologous sets of chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing a non - integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  due to extra or missing chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing an integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  possibly excluding the sex - determining chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two copies  ( homologs )  of each chromosome ,  usually one from the mother and one from the father .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's condition before death .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity characterized by particles arranged such that their shape and volume are relatively stable .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity consisting of particles that have neither a defined volume nor defined shape .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's motion characteristic .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the front of an organism relative to another entity .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a radiation quality inhering in a radioactive substance by virtue of its transformation  ( disintegration )  rate .
a radiation quality inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting or being caused by radioactivity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on left side of from the a another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on right side of a another entity .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical expression of sexual characteristics .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population that undergo sexual reproduction .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's participation in movement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being kept below its freezing point .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
a quality that inheres in an entire population or part of a population .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a behavioral quality inhering ina bearer by virtue of the bearer's unequal distribution of fine motor skill between its left and right hands or feet .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the left hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the right hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism exhibits no overall dominance in the use of right or left hand or foot in the performance of tasks that require one hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
a physical quality inhering in a fluid  ( liquid or gas )  by virtue of the amount of fluid which passes through a given surface per unit time .
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna ,  and any derivatives thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with a core domain composition consisting of an extracellular n - terminal domain that adopts an immunoglobulin fold ,  a transmembrane domain ,  and an intracellular c - terminal domain with a single copy of the immunoreceptor tyrosine - based activation motif  ( pfam:pf02189 )   ( itam )  .
a serpin that is a translation product of the human serpinc1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human adar gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human dnase1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gdnf gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human rnaset2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the escherichia coli k - 12 liga gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein complex that is a membrane - bound heterodimeric co - receptor for mhc class - i antigen / t - cell receptor interaction .
a protein that is a translation product of the aspergillus oryzae rib40 rnta gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the aspergillus oryzae rib40 nucs gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the ustilago sphaerogena rnu2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with ribonuclease activity that is a constituent of cobra venom .
a protein with ribonuclease activity that is purified from chicken liver .
a reagent role inhering in a molecular entity intended to associate with some molecular target to serve as a proxy for the presence ,  abundance ,  or location of this target in a detection of molecular label assay .
a molecular reagent intended to associate with some molecular target to serve as a proxy for the presence ,  abundance ,  or location of this target in a detection of molecular label assay
a sequence_feature with an extent greater than zero .
a sequence of amino acids linked by peptide bonds which may lack appreciable tertiary structure and may not be liable to irreversible denaturation .
one or more contigs that have been ordered and oriented using end - read information .
a contiguous sequence derived from sequence assembly .
small ,  ~22 - nt ,  rna molecule that is the endogenous transcript of a mirna gene  ( or the product of other non coding rna genes .
a sequence of nucleotides that has been algorithmically derived from an alignment of two or more different sequences .
a quality of a nucleotide polymer that has no terminal nucleotide residues .
a region of the genome of known length that is composed by ordering and aligning two or more different regions .
a region which is the result of some arbitrary experimental procedure .
lower ,  narrow portion of the uterus where it joins with the top end of the vagina .
the pituitary gland is an endocrine gland that secretes hormones that regulate many other glands  [ go ]  .
any of the rounded masses of lymphoid tissue that are surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue ,  are distributed along the lymphatic vessels ,  and contain numerous lymphocytes which filter the flow of lymph .
the fibromuscular tubular canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder to the exterior via the external urinary meatus ;  in males ,  the urethra is joined by the ejaculatory ducts and serves as a passageway for semen during ejaculation ,  as well as a canal for urine during voiding ;  in females ,  the urethra is shorter and emerges above the vaginal opening
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
amniotic fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of watery liquid surrounding and cushioning a growing fetus within the amnion .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
the upper ventral region of the torso of an organism .
a substance produced by the cervix and endocervical glands [ bto ]  .
in anatomy ,  the throat is the anterior part of the neck ,  in front of the vertebral column .
the inner portion of the kidney consisting of the renal pyramids
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
anatomical entity that has mass .
a gonad of a male animal .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the thin layer of gray matter on the surface of the cerebral hemisphere that develops from the telencephalon .
an organ that detects light .
the gonad of a female organism which contains germ cells
the female muscular organ of gestation in which the developing embryo or fetus is nourished until birth
a fibromuscular tubular tract leading from the uterus to the exterior of the body in female placental mammals and marsupials ,  or to the cloaca in female birds ,  monotremes ,  and some reptiles [ wp ]  .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a filament ,  mostly protein ,  that grows from follicles found in the dermis [ wp ]  .
the terminal portion of the intestinal tube ,  terminating with the anus
transudate contained in the pleural cavity .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
secretion produced by a sweat gland .
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
last portion of the large intestine before it becomes the rectum .
the part of the large intestine that is closest to the rectum and anus .
outer cortical portion of the kidney ,  between the renal capsule and the renal medulla .
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
an endoderm derived structure that produces precursors of digestive enzymes and blood glucose regulating enzymes [ go ]  .
transudate contained in the peritoneal cavity .
the tibial nerve is a branch of the sciatic nerve .
a clear ,  colorless ,  bodily fluid ,  that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain and spinal cord .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the nose and ends distally with the cricoid cartilage ,  before continuing to the trachea .
a fleshy subdivision of one side of the face bounded by an eye ,  ear and the nose .
an artery that supplies the myocardium .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
a muscular organ in the floor of the mouth .
the section of the pharynx that lies above the soft palate
the portion of the pharynx that lies between the soft palate and the upper edge of the epiglottis
a transparent ,  semigelatinous substance that fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina
one of the smaller ,  largely mucus - secreting ,  exocrine glands of the oral cavity ,  consisting of the labial ,  buccal ,  molar ,  lingual ,  and palatine glands [ mp ]  .
a fluid produced in the oral cavity by salivary glands ,  typically used in predigestion ,  but also in other functions .
subcortical nucleus of telecephalic origin consisting of an elongated gray mass lying lateral to and bordering the lateral ventricle .
subcortical nucleus of telencephalic  ,  which together with the caudate nucleus ,  forms the striatum .
an emulsion of fat globules within a fluid that is secreted by the mammary gland during lactation .
organism substance that is composed of sperm cells suspended in seminal fluid .
vital aqueous secretion of the liver that is formed by hepatocytes and modified down stream by absorptive and secretory properties of the bile duct epithelium .
organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin [ go ]  .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
subdivision of breast which consists of skin ,  connective tissue and smooth muscle bundle and modified sebaceous glands and which surrounds the nipple .
part of the metencephalon that lies in the posterior cranial fossa behind the brain stem .
a two - lobed endocrine gland found in all vertebrates ,  located in front of and on either side of the trachea in humans ,  and producing various hormones ,  such as triiodothyronine and calcitonin [ bto ]  .
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
a serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity [ vhog , modified ]  .
the prostate gland is a partly muscular ,  partly glandular body that is situated near the base of the mammalian male urethra and secretes an alkaline viscid fluid which is a major constituent of the ejaculatory fluid .
either of a pair of complex endocrine organs near the anterior medial border of the kidney consisting of a mesodermal cortex that produces glucocorticoid ,  mineralocorticoid ,  and androgenic hormones and an ectodermal medulla that produces epinephrine and norepinephrine [ bto ]  .
the soft tissue that fills the cavities of bones
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
an external caudal extension of the body .
a mucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the left side of a brain .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the right side of a brain .
a fold of peritoneum originating at the stomach and supporting the viscera .
a muscularis mucosa that is part of a esophagus .
a mucosa that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oropharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
liquid components of living organisms .
a small conical pouch projections located on the upper anterior portion of each atrium of the heart .
one of the minute vascular projections of the fetal chorion that combines with maternal uterine tissue to form the placenta .
a dark greenish mass that accumulates in the bowel during fetal life and is discharged shortly after birth .
matter ejected from the lungs ,  bronchi ,  and trachea ,  through the mouth .
the anterior and posterior arteries created at the bifurcation of the popliteal artery .
the junction between the esophagus and the stomach epithelium
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the fold of peritoneal tissue that extends from the stomach to the posterior abdominal wall after associating with the transverse colon
blood that remains in the placenta and in the attached umbilical cord after childbirth [ wp ]  .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
area of skin in the hypoastric region of the abdomen .
a unit which is a standard measure of the distance between two points .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of matter / energy of a physical object .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
a vaccine is a processed material with the function that when administered ,  it prevents or ameliorates a disorder in a target organism by inducing or modifying adaptive immune responses specific to the antigens in the vaccine .
has member is a mereological relation between a collection and an item .
a planned process that converts human - written or curated software into a machine - executable or interpretable set of instructions .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
p is a process boundary =def .
b is a continuant fiat boundary = def .
b is a process_profile =def .
b is a relational quality = def .
a cholestanoid consisting of cholestane having a double bond at the 5 , 6 - position as well as a 3beta - hydroxy group .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a one - carbon compound with formula co2 in which the carbon is attached to each oxygen atom by a double bond .
one of the major classifications of proteins ,  which may be further divided into the euglobulins and the pseudoglobulins .
a lactam obtained by formal cyclocondensation of creatine .
a member of the class of 2 - benzofurans that is 2 - benzofuran - 1 ( 3h )  - one which is substituted at positions 4 ,  5 ,  6 ,  and 7 by methyl ,  methoxy ,   ( 2e )  - 5 - carboxy - 3 - methylpent - 2 - en - 1 - yl ,  and hydroxy groups ,  respectively .
a member of the class of  biladienes that is a linear tetrapyrrole with the dipyrrole units being of both exovinyl and endovinyl type .
a sulfur - containing amino acid consisting of a glycine core with a 2 - mercaptoethyl side - chain .
a hemoprotein that is the ferric  ( fe ( 3 +  )  )  form of hemoglobin .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
a 17alpha - hydroxy - c21 - steroid that is pregn - 4 - ene substituted by oxo groups at positions 3 and 20 and hydroxy groups at positions 11 ,  17 and 21 .
any glyceride resulting from the condensation of all three hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
a straight - chain 3 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid comprising a butyric acid core with a single hydroxy substituent in the 3 -  position ;  a ketone body whose levels are raised during ketosis ,  used as an energy source by the brain during fasting in humans .
an amino cyclitol glycoside that is kanamycin a acylated at the n - 1 position by a 4 - amino - 2 - hydroxybutyryl group .
an oxopurine that is the final oxidation product of purine metabolism .
a complex glycopeptide from streptomyces orientalis .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - lactic acid .
an androstanoid that is androst - 5 - ene substituted by a beta - hydroxy group at position 3 and an oxo group at position 17 .
a amino cyclitol glycoside that is kanamycin b lacking the 3 - hydroxy substituent from the 2 , 6 - diaminoglucose ring .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from potassium .
an iodothyronine compound having iodo substituents at the 3 -  ,  3' -  ,  5 -  and 5' - positions .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the pteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid units .
any magnesium ion that is positively charged .
a branched - chain saturated fatty acid that comprises of a propyl substituent on a pentanoic acid stem .
a  cardenolide glycoside that is digitoxin beta - hydroxylated at c - 12 .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to low - density lipoproteins  ( ldl )  .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to high - density lipoproteins  ( hdl )  .
a hydrate that is the monohydrate form of tacrolimus .
a hydroxycalciol that is vitamin d2 in which the hydrogen at position 25 has been replaced by a hydroxy group .

a flattened epithelial cell of mesenchymal origin that lines the serous cavity .
a non - nucleated disk - shaped cell formed by extrusion from megakaryocytes ,  found in the blood of all mammals ,  and mainly involved in blood coagulation .
a giant cell 50 to 100 micron in diameter ,  with a greatly lobulated nucleus ,  found in the bone marrow ;  mature blood platelets are released from its cytoplasm .
a late neutrophilic metamyelocyte in which the nucleus is indented to more than half the distance to the farthest nuclear margin but in no area being condensed to a single filament .
an erythrocyte having a nucleus .
myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages ,  osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by one or more slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and which can be stained by the dye eosin .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
a precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myeloblast and myelocyte ,  that has distinct nucleoli ,  a nuclear - to - cytoplasmic ratio of 5:1 to 3:1 ,  and containing a few primary cytoplasmic granules .
a eosinophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myelocyte and a band form cell .
a cell type that is the first of the maturation stages of the granulocytic leukocytes normally found in the bone marrow .
a segmented neutrophilic cell of the bone marrow reserve pool that expresses cd11b  ( integrin alpha - m )  and high levels of cd16  ( low affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc region receptor iii )  on its cell surface .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a sequence of dna that is part of a core promoter region .
the process in which plasma is filtered through the glomerular membrane which consists of capillary endothelial cells ,  the basement membrane ,  and epithelial cells .
a highly soluble ,  elongated protein complex found in blood plasma and involved in clot formation .
a protein complex that binds iron and acts as a major iron storage system .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of an igg isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the ige isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the iga isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and sometimes complexed with j chain or j chain and secretory component .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igm isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and in its circulating form complexed with j chain in polymeric forms .
a specimen that is collected with a suctioning tube from the trachea .
a specimen that is collected with a mid - turbinate nasal swab from the turbinate area of the nasal cavity .
a specimen that is collected with a suctioning tube from the nasal cavity .
a specimen that is collected with a suctioning tube from the lower respiratory tract .
a specimen that is derived from the upper respiratory tract
a specimen that is derived from the lower respiratory tract .
a specimen that is derived from the anterior nasal wall
procedure using suction ,  usually with a thin needle and syringe ,  to remove bodily fluid or tissue .
a device which is a wearable garment designed to protect the wearer's body from injury or infection .
a personal protective device worn over the nose and mouth as a respiratory filter to inhibit the flow of particles .
a face mask not manufactured according to medical equipment standards .
a face mask manufactured according to a recognized medical equipment standard .
a face mask that meets the u .s . national institute for occupational safety and health  ( niosh )  n95 classification of air filtration ,  meaning that it filters at least 95% of incoming airborne particles .
a personal protective device used to protect the wearer's entire face  ( or part of it )  from hazards such as flying objects and road debris ,  chemical splashes ,  or alternately potentially infectious materials .
a personal protective clothing item which is a gown designed for use by a patient to facilitate caregiving by medical staff .
a personal protective clothing item which is sterilized and which is worn by a health care professional .
a patient gown intended to be reused after being laundered .
a patient gown intended for a single period of continuous use and then disposed of .
a personal protective clothing item which is a gown worn by a medical professional in order to provide a barrier between patient and professional .
a garment which is worn over other clothing and covers mainly the front of the body .
a medical gown which is subjected to a sterilization process and which is intended to be worn by a medical professional during surgical procedures .
a personal protective device which is a glove .
a personal protective device which consists of a garment that serves in place of or in addition to regular body clothing .
a personal protective clothing item which is an overcoat worn by medical or laboratory professionals .
a personal protective glove which is disposable and is used during medical examinations and procedures to help prevent cross - contamination between caregivers and patients .
a personal protective glove which is made out of nitrile rubber .
a device which is a transparent constructed barrier ,  usually made out of acrylic  ( plexiglass )  or polycarbonate plastic ,  installed in facilities to intercept respiratory droplets ,  encourage physical distancing requirements .
a personal protective device which is an impermiable material which covers a shoe or boot in order to prevent spread of specific environmental contaminants .
a footwear cover which is designed for a single period of continuous use and then disposed of .
a footwear cover which is designed for repeated use .
a n95 respirator which has been approved by the fda as a surgical mask .
a personal protective clothing item which is a loose fitting coverall for ease of movement ,  with sleeves ,  full leggings and often a hood to cover the head .
a personal protective clothing item which is a protective cover worn over the arm .
a personal protective clothing item which is an apron .
a personal protective device which is worn on the head that helps prevent transmission of contaminants contained in hair and scalp .
a container used to collect a specimen .
a sample collection device consisting of a soft flexible ,  absorbent pad usually made from natural material such as gauze or cotton ,  used to absorb specimen fluid or particulate matter .
a specimen collection device which is a specimen pad attached to a long handle used to collect specimen material .
a device which is a cotton pad mounted on one or both ends of a stick .
a specimen collection device consisting of a specimen pad made of sterile gauze which is aseptically attached to a pole by clips or to a string
a specimen collection swab stick that is pre - moistened with liquid prior to sampling .
a sample collection device consisting of a thin ,  less absorbent sheet ,  used to collect material from surfaces .
an investigation in which some entity is monitored ,  and data concerning that entity collected ,  interpreted ,  and disseminated ,  for the purpose of managing ,  directing ,  or protecting that entity ,  or some other entity .
a study group role that is the result of the allocation of a cluster of study - defined groupings of people in a clinical trial to receive a specific intervention / treatment ,  or no intervention ,  according to the trial's protocol .
a study group role that is the result of the allocation of a compound of geographically - proximate households with a shared component in a clinical trial to receive a specific intervention / treatment ,  or no intervention ,  according to the trial's protocol .
a light source that provides ultraviolet  ( uv )  light for use in a distant area using a delivery system .
a light source that provides visible light for use in a distant area using a delivery system .
a light source that light is produced from solar energy .
a live arthropod specimen collection process in which the arthropods are in the adult stage .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is biting an animal .
an animal - biting arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs outside a building .
an arthropod specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting mosquitoes from an aquatic environment .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that catches specimens resting inside an animal house .
an arthropod resting outdoors specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod rests on a processed material such as a wall or furniture .
an arthropod resting outdoors specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod rests on an unprocessed material such as a plant .
an animal - biting arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is resting outside a building during a period of inactivity .
a live arthropod specimen collection process that involves the use of an aspirator ,  a device which draws an arthropod by suction into a container .
a specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting arthropods as specimens .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is biting a human .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs while the arthropod is biting a human inside a building .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration designed to catch specimens that are in the process of biting a human outside a building .
a knockdown arthropod specimen collection process in which the pesticide is pyrethrum .
an arthropod specimen collection process that involves exposing arthropods to pesticide ,  then collecting them once they become dead or immobilized .
an arthropod specimen collection process meant to collect live specimens .
a device designed to catch arthropods .
an arthropod trap ,  consisting of a pit dug in the ground to provide a space for arthropods to rest and be collected .
an arthropod trap designed to work with an animal  ( which could be human )  inside a netted structure .
an arthropod trap consisting of a static physical barrier designed to funnel arthropods in flight into a container .
a device manufactured by biogents that is designed to count mosquitoes passing through the device ,  differentiating the mosquitoes from other arthropods .
an arthropod trap that is manufactured by biogents and is designed to attract arthropods through the use of a motorized fan to mimic convection currents produced by a human .
a light trap that is designed to use motorized suction to trap arthropods in a collection bag once they approach the light attractant .
a device that is designed for the collection of arthropod larvae or pupae from water and has the shape of a ladle or a pan .
a light trap that uses carbon dioxide as attractant .
an arthropod trap that is designed to collect gravid female arthropods or their eggs .
an arthropod trap that uses light as an attractant .
a light trap designed to be placed inside a building .
a light trap designed to be placed outside a building .
an arthropod trap that is powered by propane and is designed to emit a combination of carbon dioxide ,  heat ,  water ,  and oct - 1 - en - 3 - ol attractants while simultaneously using suction to trap arthropods .
a gravid trap consisting of an arthropod attractant and adhesive surface .
a light trap that is designed to use motorized suction to trap arthropods in a collection bag once they approach the light attractant .
a light trap that is designed to use motorized suction to trap arthropods in a collection bag once they approach the attractant .
an arthropod trap that is positioned adjacent to a window of a building and is designed to collect arthropods flying out of the building .
an arthropod trap that consists of a container holding a mesh layer above water and is designed to trap arthropods hatched from eggs dropped over the water by gravid females .
an arthropod trap that is designed to be attractive to an arthropod as a place to rest during a period of inactivity .
an arthropod trap that consists of a box that is open on one end .
an arthropod trap that consists of a bucket ,  which is lined with fabric and placed on its side ,  and a wet cloth inside the bucket .
an arthropod trap that is made of cloth and netting and is designed to be suspended from above  ( e .g .
an arthropod trap that consists of a bucket ,  which is lined with adhesive and placed on its side ,  and a wet cloth inside the bucket .
an arthropod trap that is designed to capture arthropods resting on a surface by coating the surface with adhesive .
a study design where the selection of the individuals that are included into the study are intended to be representative of all individuals in the a priori defined specific population and is done at the population level or among the population groups ,  generally to find the cause ,  incidence or spread of the disease or to see the response to the treatment ,  nutrition or environment .
a specimen that derives from a biofilm that forms on the inner surface of an endotracheal tube while the tube is in the trachea .
a specimen that derives from a biofilm that forms on the inner surface of an endotracheal tube while the tube is in the trachea .
the position of the first amino acid in a protein sequence being analyzed  ( input protein sequence )  .
the position of the last amino acid in a protein sequence being analyzed  ( input protein sequence )  .
the position of the first nucleotide in a gene sequence being analyzed  ( input gene sequence )  .
the position of the last nucelotide in a gene sequence being analyzed  ( input gene sequence )  .
the position of the first amino acid in a reference protein sequence  ( sequence being used for comparison )  .
the position of the last amino acid in a reference protein sequence  ( sequence being used for comparison )  .
the position of the first nucleotide in a reference gene sequence  ( sequence being used for comparison )  .
the position of the last nucelotide in a reference sequence  ( sequence being used for comparison )  .
a length measurement datum between a point at sea or ground level and some point above it .
a hi - c assay in which a selection step is performed on ligated fragments in order to enrich for ligation products containing specific regions of interest .
an imaging assay in which nuclear magnetic resonance is used to produce information about the interior structure and composition of an input material entity .
an imaging assay that uses a series of x - ray images to produce information about the interior structure and composition of an input material entity .
an imaging assay in which positron - emitting radionuclides are used to visualize functional processes of an input material entity .
a time measurement datum that is the count of collection cycles over which a specimen collection process occurs .
a person or organization that provides material supplies to other people or organizations .
a sequencing assay that determines the sequences of dna or rna molecules that encode the repertoire of t cell receptors within an input sample .
a sequencing assay that determines the sequence of a dna or rna molecules that encode the repertoire of b cell receptors within an input sample .
a data item that is the frequency of detection of a specified pathogenic organism in collected specimens .
a data item that is the frequency of blood whose source is from a specified host organism in collected blood meal specimens .
a data item that indicates whether blood in a blood meal specimen came from a specified host organism .
an organism that is the source of a blood meal .
a role borne by an organism that is gained during a process in which another organism ingests blood as food from the organism .
a role of a material entity realized in drawing an arthropod in the direction of the material .
an arthropod specimen collection process that involves a device that produces data specifying the types of arthropod collected .
an arthropod specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting gravid female arthropods .
an arthropod specimen collection process that occurs while an arthropod that is capable of flight is resting outdoors during a period of inactivity .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that occurs in the daytime .
an arthropod specimen collection by aspiration that catches specimens resting inside a human house .
an arthropod specimen collection process that occurs while the arthropods land on a surface .
an adult arthropod specimen collection process that has the objective of collecting arthropods capable of flight ,  through the use of a barrier trap .
a device that is designed to provide a solid surface that is attractive to an arthropod as a place to rest during a period of inactivity .
a device that is designed for the collection of arthropod larvae or pupae from water and consists of a conical net .
an arthropod trap that uses as attractant an animal that is not human and is the size of a chicken or smaller .
an arthropod trap that is designed to trap an arthropod as it emerges from water at the beginning of its adult stage .
an assay that measures ferritin
an assay that measures fibrinogen
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of iron
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ionized calcium
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of transferrin
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of uric acid
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of globulin
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of myelocytes
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of metamyelocytes
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of promyelocytes
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of basophils
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of neutrophils
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of eosinophils
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of lymphocytes
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of monocytes
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of reticulocytes
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of macrophages
a cytometry assay that measures the abundance and / or characteristics of platelets
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium ( 1 +  ) 
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium ( 1 +  ) 
a cytometry assay that measures the count of basophils
a cytometry assay that measures the count of neutrophils
a cytometry assay that measures the count of eosinophils
a cytometry assay that measures the count of lymphocytes
a cytometry assay that measures the count of monocytes
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of chloride
a cytometry assay that measures the count of erythrocytes
a cytometry assay that measures the count of platelets
a cytometry assay that measures the count of leukocytes
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of phosphate ion
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of alanine aminotransferase
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of alkaline phosphatase  ( human ) 
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bilirubin ixalpha
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of aspartate aminotransferase  ( human ) 
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of magnesium cation
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of albumin
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of calcium cation
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatine kinase
a cytometry assay that measures the count of nucleate erythrocytes
a cytometry assay that measures the count of segmented neutrophil of bone marrows
an assay that measures lactate dehydrogenase complex
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of triglyceride
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of high - density lipoprotein cholesterol
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of cholesterol
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of low - density lipoprotein cholesterol
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of thyroid stimulating hormone
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of prostate - specific antigen
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of thyroxine
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of elemental oxygen
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of folic acids
a cytometry assay that measures the count of reticulocytes
an assay that measures osmolality
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of methemoglobin
an assay that measures cytosolic creatine kinase complex ,  mb - type
an assay that measures rac - lactic acid
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hydrogencarbonate
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of vancomycin
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of tobramycin
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of 3 , 3' , 5' - triiodothyronine
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of c - reactive protein
a cytometry assay that measures the count of megakaryocytes
a cytometry assay that measures the count of mesothelial cells
a cytometry assay that measures the count of macrophages
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of 3 - hydroxybutyric acid
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in venous blood as part of a panel5 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in venous blood as part of a panel5 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in venous blood as part of a panel5 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in venous blood as part of a panel5 order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of basophils in venous blood as part of a automated differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of neutrophils in venous blood as part of a automated differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of eosinophils in venous blood as part of a automated differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of lymphocytes in venous blood as part of a automated differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of monocytes in venous blood as part of a automated differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of chloride in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of rbcs in venous blood as part of a cbc with automated differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of platelets in venous blood as part of a cbc with automated differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of wbcs in venous blood as part of a cbc with automated differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells in venous blood as part of a cbc with automated differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in venous blood as part of a cbc with automated differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of phosphate in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of alanine aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a liver injury order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human alkaline phosphatase in venous blood as part of a liver injury order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bilirubin in venous blood as part of a liver injury order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human aspartate aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a liver injury order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of magnesium in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of rbcs in venous blood as part of a cbc order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of wbcs in venous blood as part of a cbc order
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells in venous blood as part of a cbc order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of platelets in venous blood as part of a cbc order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in venous blood as part of a cbc order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of leukocytes in venous blood as part of a corrected order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bilirubin in venous blood as part of a liver evaluation order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of globulin in venous blood as part of a liver evaluation order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of albumin in venous blood as part of a liver evaluation order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human aspartate aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a liver evaluation order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of alanine aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a liver evaluation order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human alkaline phosphatase in venous blood as part of a liver evaluation order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein in venous blood as part of a liver evaluation order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of chloride in venous blood as part of a basic metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in venous blood as part of a basic metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in venous blood as part of a basic metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in venous blood as part of a basic metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in venous blood as part of a basic metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of calcium in venous blood as part of a basic metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in venous blood as part of a basic metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatine kinase in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of calcium in venous blood
an assay that measures ferritin in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of calcium in venous blood as part of a total order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of iron in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of band neutrophils in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of wbcs in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of eosinophils in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of lymphocytes in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of nucleated rbcs in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of monocytes in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of segmented neutrophils in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of basophils in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of albumin in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatine kinase in venous blood as part of a cardiac enzymes order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of haptoglobin in venous blood
an assay that measures lactate dehydrogenase in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of prealbunin in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of triglyceride in venous blood as part of a lipid panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of high density lipoprotein in venous blood as part of a lipid panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of cholesterol in venous blood as part of a lipid panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of low density lipoprotein in venous blood as part of a lipid panel order
an assay that measures hemoglobin a1c in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of uric acid in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein in venous blood as part of a total order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of thyroid stimulating hormone in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of prostate specific antigen in venous blood
an assay that measures volume in urine as part of a 24 hour total order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of t4 in venous blood as part of a t4 uptake order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in arterial blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of cells in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in arterial blood as part of a hemoglobin oxygen saturation order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in arterial blood as part of a hemoglobin oxygen saturation order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in venous blood as part of a inpatient profile order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in venous blood as part of a inpatient profile order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in venous blood as part of a inpatient profile order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in venous blood as part of a inpatient profile order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of folic acid in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of reticulocytes in venous blood as part of a count order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of transferrin in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in urine as part of a random electrolytes order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in urine as part of a random electrolytes order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in urine
an assay that measures osmolality in urine
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in arterial blood as part of a cooximitery order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in arterial blood as part of a cooximitery order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of methemoglobin in arterial blood as part of a cooximitery order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in urine as part of a electrolytes order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in urine as part of a electrolytes order
an assay that measures creatine kinase mb in arterial blood as part of a biosite cardiac panel order
an assay that measures fibrinogen in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of calcium in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of albumin in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human alkaline phosphatase in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bilirubin in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of chloride in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human aspartate aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of alanine aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a comprehensive metabolic panel order
an assay that measures ldh in venous blood
an assay that measures creatine kinase mb in venous blood
an assay that measures lactic acid in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in venous blood as part of a blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ionized calcium in venous blood as part of a ionized order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in venous blood as part of a blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bicarbonate in venous blood as part of a blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in arterial blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of tacrolimus in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of vancomycin in venous blood as part of a random order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of mycophenolic acid in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in arterial blood as part of a non - vented blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in arterial blood as part of a non - vented blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bicarbonate in arterial blood as part of a non - vented blood gas order
an assay that measures igg in venous blood as part of a quantitative order
an assay that measures igm in venous blood as part of a quantitative order
an assay that measures iga in venous blood as part of a quantitative order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in arterial blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in arterial blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of calcium in arterial blood as part of a ionized order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bicarbonate in arterial blood as part of a vented blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in arterial blood as part of a vented blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in arterial blood as part of a vented blood gas order
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells in arterial blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of chloride in arterial blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in arterial blood
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells in venous blood as part of a gem premier blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ionized calcium in venous blood as part of a gem premier blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in venous blood as part of a gem premier blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in venous blood as part of a gem premier blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in venous blood as part of a gem premier blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bicarbonate in venous blood as part of a gem premier blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in venous blood as part of a gem premier blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in venous blood as part of a gem premier blood gas order
an assay that measures lactic acid in venous blood as part of a gem premier blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in venous blood as part of a gem premier blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of tobramycin in venous blood as part of a trough order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of tobramycin in venous blood as part of a random order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of metamyelocytes in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
an assay that measures lactic acid in arterial blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of 25 - hydroxyvitamin d2 in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of digoxin in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein in urine
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of tobramycin in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of myelocytes in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of beta - globin in venous blood as part of a spep protein electrophoresis order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of albumin in venous blood as part of a spep protein electrophoresis order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein in venous blood as part of a spep protein electrophoresis order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of vancomycin in venous blood as part of a trough order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein in venous blood as part of a hepatic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bilirubin in venous blood as part of a hepatic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of alanine aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a hepatic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human aspartate aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a hepatic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of albumin in venous blood as part of a hepatic panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human alkaline phosphatase in venous blood as part of a hepatic panel order
an assay that measures glomerular filtration in venous blood as part of a estimated order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in venous blood as part of a dt60 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in venous blood as part of a fasting order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of amikacin in venous blood as part of a random order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ammonia in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ggt in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of phosphate in venous blood as part of a chem11 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in venous blood as part of a chem11 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of calcium in venous blood as part of a chem11 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in venous blood as part of a chem11 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in venous blood as part of a chem11 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of albumin in venous blood as part of a chem11 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in venous blood as part of a chem11 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of magnesium in venous blood as part of a chem11 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in venous blood as part of a chem11 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of chloride in venous blood as part of a chem11 order
an assay that measures ige in venous blood as part of a total order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human aspartate aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of magnesium in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of calcium in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of triglyceride in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of phosphate in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human alkaline phosphatase in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of albumin in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bilirubin in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of chloride in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of alanine aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in venous blood as part of a chem16 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in arterial blood as part of a poc chem8 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ionized calcium in arterial blood as part of a poc chem8 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in arterial blood as part of a poc chem8 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in arterial blood as part of a poc chem8 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in arterial blood as part of a poc chem8 order
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells in arterial blood as part of a poc chem8 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of chloride in arterial blood as part of a poc chem8 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of tobramycin in venous blood as part of a peak order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in urine as part of a 24 hour order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of pth in venous blood as part of a intact order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of psa in venous blood as part of a total order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of t3 in venous blood as part of a total order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein in urine as part of a 24 hour order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of cholesterol in venous blood as part of a total order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of triglyceride in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of cells in cerebrospinal fluid as part of a tube 4 count order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein in cerebrospinal fluid
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in cerebrospinal fluid
a cytometry assay that measures the count of cells in cerebrospinal fluid as part of a tube 1 count order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of dehydroepiandrosterone in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of cortisol in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an assay that measures lactic acid in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of chloride in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of calcium in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an assay that measures temperature in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bicarbonate in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of promyelocytes in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ionized calcium in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bicarbonate in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an assay that measures lactic acid in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of chloride in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of t4 in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of t4 in venous blood as part of a free order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in urine
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of albumin in venous blood as part of a bone profile order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of calcium in venous blood as part of a bone profile order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human alkaline phosphatase in venous blood as part of a bone profile order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein in venous blood as part of a bone profile order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of phosphate in venous blood as part of a bone profile order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in arterial blood as part of a abg / electrolytes order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in arterial blood as part of a abg / electrolytes order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ionized calcium in arterial blood as part of a abg / electrolytes order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of nucleated rbcs in venous blood as part of a cbc with automated differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of methemoglobin in venous blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of methemoglobin in arterial blood as part of a abl90 panel order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of valproic acid in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of c - reactive protein in venous blood as part of a high sensitivity cardiac / neonatal order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in arterial blood as part of a poc order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bicarbonate in arterial blood as part of a gem4000 anlcoox order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in arterial blood as part of a gem4000 anlcoox order
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells in arterial blood as part of a gem4000 anlcoox order
an assay that measures temperature in arterial blood as part of a gem4000 anlcoox order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in arterial blood as part of a gem4000 anlcoox order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in arterial blood as part of a gem4000 anlcoox order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in arterial blood as part of a gem4000 anlcoox order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ionized calcium in arterial blood as part of a gem4000 anlcoox order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in arterial blood as part of a gem4000 anlcoox order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in arterial blood as part of a gem4000 anlcoox order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of calcium in venous blood as part of a ionized order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of megakaryocytes in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of c - reactive protein in venous blood as part of a non - cardiac order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of pth in venous blood as part of a intraoperative order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of parathyroid hormone in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein in bodily fluid as part of a total order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in bodily fluid
a cytometry assay that measures the count of cells in bodily fluid as part of a count order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of segmented neutrophils in bodily fluid as part of a manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of mesothelial cells in bodily fluid as part of a manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of monocytes in bodily fluid as part of a manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of lymphocytes in bodily fluid as part of a manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of macrophages in bodily fluid as part of a manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of basophils in bodily fluid as part of a manual differential order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of eosinophils in bodily fluid as part of a manual differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bilirubin in venous blood as part of a liver function order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of alanine aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a liver function order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human aspartate aminotransferase in venous blood as part of a liver function order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of albumin in venous blood as part of a liver function order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of protein in venous blood as part of a liver function order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of human alkaline phosphatase in venous blood as part of a liver function order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of folic acid in venous blood as part of a vitamin b12 and folate order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of cells in bodily fluid
a cytometry assay that measures the count of reticulocytes in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of cholesterol in bodily fluid
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of thyroid stimulating hormone in venous blood as part of a tsh reflex free t4 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bilirubin in venous blood as part of a direct order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of t3 in venous blood as part of a free order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of albumin in bodily fluid
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of triglyceride in bodily fluid
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells in venous blood as part of a hemoglobin and hematocrit order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in venous blood as part of a hemoglobin and hematocrit order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ionized calcium in venous blood
an assay that measures temperature in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bicarbonate in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in venous blood
an assay that measures osmolality in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of platelets in venous blood as part of a liver fibrosis  ( chronic viral hepatitis )  order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of t3 in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of neutrophils in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of creatinine in urine as part of a creatinine clearance order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of beta hydroxybutryic acid in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of megakaryocytes in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of nucleated rbcs in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of wbcs in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of reticulocytes in venous blood as part of a automated count order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of homocysteine in venous blood as part of a total order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ceruloplasmin in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bicarbonate in arterial blood as part of a gem4 order
an assay that measures lactic acid in arterial blood as part of a gem4 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of hemoglobin in arterial blood as part of a gem4 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of sodium in arterial blood as part of a gem4 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of potassium in arterial blood as part of a gem4 order
an assay that measures temperature in arterial blood as part of a gem4 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of glucose in arterial blood as part of a gem4 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in arterial blood as part of a gem4 order
a cytometry assay that measures the proportion of red blood cells in arterial blood as part of a gem4 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of ionized calcium in arterial blood as part of a gem4 order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in arterial blood as part of a gem4 order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of platelets in venous blood as part of a liver fibrosis  ( nafld )  order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of beta hydroxybutric acid in venous blood
a cytometry assay that measures the count of plasma cells in venous blood as part of a cbc with manual differential order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of erythropoietin in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of oxygen in arterial blood as part of a blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of bicarbonate in arterial blood as part of a blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of carbon dioxide in arterial blood as part of a blood gas order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of psa in venous blood as part of a free / total order
a cytometry assay that measures the count of lymphocytes in cerebrospinal fluid
a cytometry assay that measures the count of segmented neutrophils in cerebrospinal fluid
a cytometry assay that measures the count of mesothelial cells in cerebrospinal fluid
a cytometry assay that measures the count of macrophages in cerebrospinal fluid
a cytometry assay that measures the count of basophils in cerebrospinal fluid
a cytometry assay that measures the count of monocytes in cerebrospinal fluid
a cytometry assay that measures the count of eosinophils in cerebrospinal fluid
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of beta - 2 - microglobulin in venous blood
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of low density lipoprotein in venous blood as part of a lipid panel reflex direct order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of triglyceride in venous blood as part of a lipid panel reflex direct order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of cholesterol in venous blood as part of a lipid panel reflex direct order
an analyte assay that measures the abundance of high density lipoprotein in venous blood as part of a lipid panel reflex direct order
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of osmoles of solute per kilogram of solvent .
a protein that is a translation product of the human klk3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human alb gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human b2m gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cp gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human crp gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human epo gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a hemoglobin subunit that is a translation product of the human hbb gene ,  a 1:1 ortholog thereof ,  or pro - orthologs thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human hp gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human pth gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human tf gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human ttr gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a cytosolic creatine kinase complex that is a heterodimer of a b - type subunit and an m - type subunit .
a protein that contains a single atp:guanido phosphotransferase n - terminal domain  ( pfam:pf02807 )  followed by a single atp:guanido phosphotransferase c - terminal catalytic domain  ( pfam:pf00217 )  .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gpt or gpt2 genes ,  1:1 orthologs thereof ,  or a semi - ortholog thereof .
a protein - containing complex that is composed of four subunits of l - lactate dehydrogenase ,  cytoplasmic .
a protein that is a translation product of any of the following alkaline phosphatase genes in human: alpg  ( encoding the germinal form ;  gcap )  ,  alpp  ( encoding the placental form ;  plap )  ,  alpi  ( encoding the intestinal form ;  iap )  ,  and alpl  ( encoding the tissue non - specific form ;  tnap )  .
a protein that is a translation product of any of the following genes in human: got1 / got2 .
a hemoglobin complex that is composed of at least one beta - n - 1 - deoxy fructosyl hemoglobin subunit ,  in which the glycan is attached to the n - terminal valine  ( after initiator methionine removal )  of one or both beta subunits .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
the mucous membrane that lines the nasal cavity [ mp ]  .
the trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches  [ go:dph ]  .
the medial surface of the labyrinth of ethmoid consists of a thin lamella ,  which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate ,  and ends below in a free ,  convoluted margin ,  the middle nasal concha .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
paired ,  vertical ,  and relatively straight plates that form the anterior limit of the nasal capsule .
a process of administering substance in vivo that involves in adding a vaccine into a host  ( e .g . ,  human )  in vivo with the intent to invoke a protective or therapeutic adaptive immune response .
