the visible division between epiblast and hypoblast in the gastrula .
small but distinctive epithelial sac containing fluid ,  located midventrally posterior to the yolk cell or its extension ,  and transiently present during most of the segmentation period .
muscle precursor cell that is adjacent to the notochord and part of the presomitic mesoderm .
anterior portion of the axial hypoblast .
blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart .
the anterior round region of the yolk cell present after the yolk extension forms during the segmentation period .
a complex mixture of cells suspended in a liquid matrix that delivers nutrients to cells and removes wastes .
cavitated compound organ which is comprised of gray and white matter and surrounds the cerebral ventricular system .
cavitated compound organ that receives blood flow from the atrium and delivers blood to the body via the aorta .
anatomical system that functions in circulation and  has as its parts the heart and vasculature .
extension of the dorsal aorta in the post - vent region .
the brain and spinal cord .
ganglion which is located in the head .
principal unpaired ,  median artery of the trunk ,  leading from the paired roots  ( radices )  of the dorsal aorta to the caudal artery .
the outer layer of the embryo derived from the epiblast .
the outer of the two layers of the blastoderm that form during gastrulation ,  corresponding to primitive ectoderm during gastrulation and to the definitive ectoderm after gastrulation .
a circumscribed swelling ,  includes the pineal primordium that appears late in the segmentation period in the dorsal midline of the diencephalon .
anatomical structure that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
multi - tissue structure that is the ventral - most aspect of the developing neural tube .
a group of cells that migrate at the leading edge of shield during gastrulation but do not involute .
layer of the retina that contains the ganglion cell bodies .
a transversely oriented set of cells located deep to the evl on the pericardial membrane ,  especially prominent during pharyngula period because of the brightly refractile cytoplasmic granules  ( containing hatching enzymes )  of the principal cells of the gland .
skeletal system of paired fins .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardial precursors laterally .
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
portion of tissue that is a patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium in the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
portion of tissue that arises from the arise from the lateral edges of the shield and is located immediately ventral to the notochord .
multi - tissue structure which is the largest portion of diencephalon and is ventrally located .
a sensory system on the surface of the fish ,  consisting of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  distributed in discrete lines over the body surface .
portion of tissue that is a transparent ,  biconvex structure located in the eye through which light is focused .
system responsible for the production and movement of bile .
zebrafish anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
embryonic structure ,  the edge of the blastoderm .
surface structure that will develop into one of the median fins .
the boundary between the mesencephalon and the rhombencephalon .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 1 .
portion of somite 14 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
a cell population arising from the dorsolateral aspect of the central nervous system primordium during the segmentation period ,  and later migrating along stereotyped pathways to give rise to a diverse and well - defined set of cell types including pigment cells ,  peripheral neurons and glia ,  and head cartilage .
portion of retina composed of  all the neural tissues in the retina .
organ that is the specialized structure of the face that contains olfactory neurons .
neurogenic placode that gives rise to the olfactory neurons that which convey odor information to the cns .
lumen of optic stalk .
portion of tissue that is comprised of neuroepithelium which has pinched off from the anterior neural keel and will form the optic cup .
epithelial sac present beside the fifth rhombomere ;  forms the semicircular canals dorsally and the otolith organs ventrally ,  and houses the acoustico - vestibular sensory epithelia  ( maculae )  of hair cells .
actinotrichium which is part of the dorsal fin fold .
embryonic structure part of the mesoderm fated to become segmental plate .
serous membrane that surrounds the heart .
swollen region of the anterior foregut ,  posterior to the mouth and anterior to the liver ;  its walls form the jaws and gills .
the hatching gland rudiment at the time it underlies the forebrain during the early segmentation period .
axial hypoblast located anterior to the chorda mesoderm ;  the polster is its most anterior region .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the forebrain .
region of the gastrula which gives rise to the neural plate .
portion of tissue that is the outer layer of the optic cup and will become the retinal pigmented epithelium .
an inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into part of the anal passage .
intermediate mesoderm that is located beneath the anterior somites and gives rise to the pronephros and pronephric duct .
cluster of cells in the neural plate that have the potential to become neuroblast .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 5
embryonic structure that is a local accumulation of cells along the germ ring .
anteriormost undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 5 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 26 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
the swim bladder is a double - chambered organ located in the coelom and used to maintain buoyancy and may function as an acoustic resonator .
actinotrichium which is part of the ventral fin fold .
the anterior and dorsal forebrain neuromere .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
vessels that carry blood to the heart .
giant syncytial uncleaved cell containing nutrient store for embryonic development in the form of semicrystalline phospholipoprotein and contained within yolk granules .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the pectoral fin bud .
outermost monolayer of cells surrounding the embryo that become very flattened in the blastula and give rise to the periderm .
peripheral layer of the yolk cell including nuclei and non - yolky cytoplasm .
portion of tissue which is a slender ,  horny ,  flexible ,  unsegmented fibril ,  which strengthens the embryonic fin fold .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the dorsal fin .
notochord rudiment .
organism subdivision running along the rostral - caudal axis of the early embryo .
cell that arises during cleavage and is partially cleaved ,  and located at the blastodisc margin prior to collectively forming the yolk syncytial layer  ( ysl )  in the midblastula .
nests of developing blood cells arising late in the segmentation period from the intermediate mass ,  and located in the anterior - ventral tail ,  just posterior to the yolk extension .
skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the gill arches ;  the last five of the set of seven pharyngeal arches ;  the numbering system can be confusing ;  generally branchial arch #1 is the first gill arch ,  or the third pharyngeal arch ,  but some authors do not follow this convention .
blood vasculature comprised of the cardinal veins .
artery originating at the junction of the first two aortic arches and supplying the anterior brain .
anatomical cluster which consists of rapidly dividing cells .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the brain .
brain structure derived from the anterior hindbrain ,  and perhaps including posterior midbrain .
the more posterior and ventral of two forebrain neuromeres ,  the other being the telencephalon ;  major derivatives are the eye cups ,  the brain pretectal region ,  the thalamus ,  hypothalamus ,  and epithalamus  ( including the habenula and epiphysis )  .
region of the median fin fold that develops into the dorsal fin .
a cellular ,  multilayered epithelium derived from the ectoderm .
the posterior elongated region of the yolk cell that forms during the segmentation period .
cavitated compound organ that consists of the neural retina ,  lens ,  cornea and iris and is the sensory apparatus of the visual system .
surface structure involved in locomotion .
the most anterior region the brain including both the telencephalon and diencephalon .
fluid - filled brain cavity .
embryonic structure that forms as a thickened annulus at the blastoderm rim .
the alimentary or digestive tract ,  and associated organs .
mesoderm that will give rise ,  along with cranial neural crest cells ,  to connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in the head .
blood pumping organ composed of four components: sinus venosus ,  atrium ,  cardiac ventricle and bulbus arteriosus .
the migrating myocardial precursors of the heart rudiment form a cone like structure between 19 .5 hpf and 22 hpf ,  and eventually telescope out into the primitive heart tube at 24hpf .
portion of tissue that is a patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium in the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
the inner of the two layers of the blastoderm that forms during gastrulation and give rise to the definitive mesoderm and endoderm .
a compound organ which is an endocrine gland located ventral to the diencephalon and derived from mixed neuroectodermal and non - neuroectodermal origin .
retinal layer that contains the interneurons ,  the horizontal ,  bipolar and amacrine cells .
ganglion that develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate a lateral line .
ectodermal primordium of the lens of the eye .
solid compound organ with three lobes that has many functions including bile production ,  blood detoxification ,  the production of critical plasma proteins and clotting factors ,  complement proteins  and the storage of many substances ,  such as lipids ,  amino acids ,  iron ,  and glycogen .
embryonic primordium that develops into the liver .
neuromast that is part of the mandibular lateral line .
centra are represented by mineralized ,  calcified ,  or ossified portions that surround the notochord .
the brain region between the forebrain anteriorly and the hindbrain posteriorly ,  including the tectum dorsally and the midbrain tegmentum ventrally .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
portion of tissue that is the earliest recognizable dorsal ectodermal primordium of the central nervous system present near the end of gastrulation before infolding to form the neural keel ;  consists of a thickened pseudostratified epithelium .
an intermediate stage in the development of the central nervous system present during the segmentation period ;  the neural rod is roughly cylindrical in shape ,  forms from the neural keel ,  and is not yet hollowed out into the neural tube .
rod - like principal supportive element of the embryo and larva ,  present in the midline just ventral to the neural tube ,  and differentiating during the segmentation period to form large vacuolated epithelial cells and a surrounding sheath of fibrous and elastic layers .
neuromast that is part of the otic lateral line .
portion of tissue that provides a pathway for axon migration from the retina .
primordium of the ear epithelium before it hollows into the otic vesicle ,  present beside the hindbrain rudiment in the mid - segmentation period .
the pancreas is an organ composed of endocrine and exocrine glandular tissue that produce hormones and digestive enzymes .
fin bud that develops into the pectoral fin .
nervous structures including ganglia outside of the central nervous system .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell receptor segments reside .
a monolayer of pigmented epithelium covering the neural retina ;  develops from the outer of the two layers of the optic cup .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the brain .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
duct of the embryonic kidney ,  present bilaterally ventral to the somites and leading to the cloacal chamber .
the embryonic kidney ,  present at the level of the third somite ,  is composed of two glomeruli fused at the midline ,  two pronephric tubules ,  and paired bilateral pronephric ducts that modify the composition of the blood filtrate before delivering it to the cloaca for excretion .
multi - tissue structure that contains the retinal neural layer and the retinal pigmented epithelium ,  and develops from the optic cup .
posteriormost hindbrain segment or neuromere .
heart region collecting blood from the paired common cardinal veins and delivering to the atrium .
undifferentiated mesodermal components of early trunk or tail segments or metameres ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms myotomes ,  sclerotomes and perhaps dermatomes .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment 20 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
posteriormost undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
this centrum may be formed via the fusion of the terminal centrum and half - centrum .
multi - tissue structure that is the ventral part of the midbrain and develops from the basal plate .
fluid - filled brain cavity .
the ectodermal rudiment of the trigeminal ganglion ,  distinguishable during much of the segmentation period .
system that removes and collects metabolic waste from the blood while maintaining ion homeostasis .
multi - tissue structure that is a paired nucleus located in the lateral expansion of the dorsal hypothalamic zone .
patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium that is associated with the lateral semicircular canal .
median fin skeleton that is located posterior to the anus .
macula that is located in the developing anterior inner ear ,  and gives rise to the macula utricle .
median elements that are ossified within copulae and are not assigned to a specific branchial arch number .
muscle that is part of pharyngeal arches 3 - 7 which are also known as the branchial arches .
multi - tissue structure that consists of three layers and through which the blood exits the heart .
cerebellar tract that consists of efferent fibers from the purkinje cells to the neurons of the vestibular nuclei in the hindbrain .
cranial nerve which enters the brain between cranial nerves viii and ix ;  contains afferents and sensory efferents to the posterior lateral line ganglion and middle ganglion .
peripheral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon that has migrated to the periphery of the brain .
portion of the fish's body that is posterior to the vent and anterior to the caudal fin .
cranial nerve root which is part of the abducens nerve  ( cn - vi )  and is located at the level of the intermediate reticular formation .
vein in the tail returning blood from the trunk and tail to the heart ,  leads directly into the posterior cardinal vein in the posterior trunk .
telencephalic nucleus which is the most caudally located part of the dorsal telencephalon and surrounds the central zone of dorsal telencephalon .
diencephalic nucleus which is located in the caudal portion of the dorsal thalamus ,  ventral to the dorsal caudal thalamic nucleus .
multi - tissue structure that is the central part of the pretectum .
transversely oriented bone connecting the occipital region of the skull dorsally and pectoral girdle ventrally ;  appears near the end of embryogenesis .
anterior commissure which abuts the preoptic region dorsally .
bilaterally paired longitudinal vein ;  the anterior cardinal returns blood from the head ,  and the posterior cardinal returns it from the trunk ;  these two vessels join together on each side as the common cardinal vein  ( duct of cuvier ;  misnamed the vitelline vein )  that leads across the yolk cell to the heart's sinus venosus .
brain structure which is one of three parts of the cerebellum and is the entry point for a posterior cerebellar tract that carries cerebellar afferents from many brain stem nuclei .
anatomical cluster of skeletal elements that is a posterolateral part of the cranium and structurally supports the vestibuloauditory system .
structures containing a collection of nerve cell bodies .
dermal bone that forms the antero - lateral part of the lower jaw .
the bundle of the sensory root of the trigeminal nerve that descends in the medulla oblongata providing somatosensory input to the nucleus of the descending trigeminal root and to the medial funicular nucleus .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the inferior lobe of the hypothalamus and consists of masses of small cells presumably migrated from the periventricular cell masses .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the central pretectum and is ventral to the magnocellular superficial pretectal nucleus and the caudal pretectal nucleus .
dorsal fin muscle that moves individual rays the dorsal fin into a lowered position .
the dorsal hypohyal is a small cartilage replacement bone ossifying from the anterodorsal ceratohyal cartilage .
habenular nucleus where the efferent projections innervate the interpeduncular nucleus .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the dorsal hypothalamic zone and is located periventricularly .
trunk ganglion which is located adjacent to the spine on a dorsal root and contains the cell bodies of afferent sensory nerves .
artery that carries blood leaving the gill .
esophagus part of the gut that develops from endodermal precursors at the rostral end of the digestive tract .
paired superficial caudal fin muscle that originates from a broad base at the midline and narrows toward its attachment at the ventral tip of the caudal fin .
musculature part of fin .
the compound organ that stores bile .
preglomerular nucleus which is located between the rostral and medial preglomerular nuclei of the caudal tuberculum .
portion of tissue that is the caudal gigantocellular portion of the magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
multi - tissue structure that is the transverse vertical platelet on the gill filament ,  through which capillaries run .
brain structure which is paired and part of the vestibulolateralis lobe of the cerebellum and extends fibers into the cerebellar crest .
the habenula relays impulses from limbic areas of the telencephalon to an unpaired midbrain nucleus ,  the interpeduncular nucleus .
hindbrain nucleus where climbing fibers originate .
the auditory  ( hearing )  and vestibular  ( balance )  organ of the fish ,  equivalent to the inner ear of amniotes .
one of three fluid - filled semicircular tubes ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in each ear .
sensory trigeminal nucleus located in the most rostral position .
dermal bone that covers the region between the anterior margin of the eye and the upper jaw .
is an otic epithelium that will mature into the lateral crista .
large ,  paired cartilage bones separating the olfactory region from the orbit .
diencephalic nucleus which is the lateral part of the ventral hypothalamic zone .
is a portion of tissue that migrates and deposits immature neuromasts and interneuromasts .
telencephalic white matter which extends between the olfactory bulb and the ipsilateral dorsal telencephalon and carries secondary olfactory fibers .
muscle that attaches to the parhypurpophyses .
intracranial space formed by confluence of supraorbital ,  infraorbital ,  preopercular and temporal sensory canals that forms the lateral protrusion of the third ventricle .
otic vesicle protrusion that is initially laterally located and then bifurcates and fuses anteriorly with the anterior protrusion ,  and posteriorly with the posterior protrusion .
portion of tissue ,  located on the lower jaw that defines the caudal extent of the labial cavity .
portion of tissue that is a patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium in the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the superficial pretectum and is caudally contiguous with the caudal pretectal nucleus .
muscle that are part of the  mandibular arch  ( pharyngeal arch 1 )  .
telencephalic white matter which extends between the olfactory bulb and the ipsilateral ventral telencephalon and carries secondary olfactory fibers .
endochondral bone that articulates laterally with the medial surface of the cleithrum and ventro - medially with the scapula and coracoid .
the metapterygoid is a posterior bone that ossifies in the cartilaginous palatoquadrate arch .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
volcano - shaped lateral line sensory organ located in characteristic positions within the skin epithelium and containing hair cells and their support elements .
sensory trigeminal nucleus that lies at the mediodorsal edge of the descending trigeminal root  ( dv )  .
telencephalic nucleus which is located immediately ventral to the caudal zone of dorsal telencephalon .
diencephalic nucleus that is dorsal to the caudal parvocellular preoptic nucleus .
dermal bone that articulates anteriorly with the hyomandibula .
diencephalic white matter  ( tract )  which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons after which they have passed through the optic chiasm .
large median unpaired cartilage bone consisting of two diverging plates .
embryonic structure that develops into the pancreatic bud .
mesoderm which is lateral to the neural tube on both sides .
cartilage which is part of the pectoral fin .
musculature that is part of the pelvic fin .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva consisting of 2 neuromast .
diencephalic nucleus which is the periventricular part of the ventral hypothalamic zone .
one of three fluid - filled semicircular tubes ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in each ear .
post - cranial vertebrae lacking hemal spines  ( weitzman ,  1962 )  ,  refers generally to the anterior vertebral region bounding the abdominal cavity .
dermal bone that is part of the opercular flap and bears the preopercular sensory canal .
portion of presumptive mesoderm fated to become dorsal mesoderm .
portion of tissue which is the most peripheral layer and present only in the rostroventral olfactory bulb .
rod - like internal median skeletal support bones of the anal fin ,  which articulate with the distal radials .
paired ,  deep caudal fin muscles that arise from a narrow insertion site at the 28th and 29th vertebrae then project from the vertebral column to the ventral base of the caudal fin where they attach broadly to ventral caudal fin rays .
the dermal maxilla forms part of the upper jaw .
the  internal skeletal supports of the median and paired fins .
system responsible for the exchange of gases across the gill membranes .
octaval sensory nucleus located rostral to the magnocellular octaval nucleus and arches dorsally around the descending trigeminal root .
dermal bone that is thin ,  flexible ,  and platelike ,  and that develops in overlapping skinfolds that cover the body and often the head of fish and the bases of the fins .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
medial division of the valvula cerebelli .
specialized neuronal receptor cells of the posterior macula .
nervous system responsible for transmitting sensory stimuli .
dermal bone lying below the opercle .
pectoral fin muscle that develops from the primitive pectoral fin adductor .
slow twitch muscle derived from the lateral wedge - shaped strip of slow muscle cells originally positioned at the lateral end of the horizontal myoseptum .
paired ,  deep caudal fin muscles that originate from the 30th vertebra and extend toward the dorsal base of the caudal fin where they insert broadly on fin rays .
anatomical cluster that forms the floor and sidewalls of the middle part of the cranium .
lateral line sensory nucleus located in the cerebellum that processes sensory input from the lateral line .
organism subdivision which is the collection of anatomical structures on the body surface .
multi - tissue structure that is located between the dorsal diencephalon and the mesencephalon and contains the caudal commissure .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the caudal tuberculum .
a prominent collection of touch - sensory neurons of the trigeminal or fifth cranial nerve ,  positioned beside the brain between the eye and the ear .
the multi - tissue ,   vagal lobe is a large ,  paired brain stem structure flanking the unpaired facial lobe laterally .
is a surface structure and is the external opening of the cloaca .
peripheral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon that is a band of tightly packed cells starting at the level of the anterior commissure and extends into the telencephalo - diencephalic boundary region .
the ventral hypohyal ossifies first along the anteroventral tip of the ceratohyal cartilage at the insertion of the tendon from the sternohyoideus  ( 5 .7 mm )  .
extraocular muscle that runs parallel to the long axis of the fish and inserts on the anterior side of the eye at the sclera - corneal  ( sc )  junction .
habenular nucleus positioned ventromedially to the dorsal habenular nuclei .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
brain structure which is the ventral part of the telencephalon and is consists of periventricular nuclei surrounding the unpaired median ventricle and those which have migrated away from the ependyma .
groove that separates the paired inferior  ( or lateral )  lobes of the hypothalamus from the tuberal hypothalamus .
brain structure which is part of the cerebellum consists of the paired granular eminentia and the medial caudal lobe .
a thin medial unpaired dermal bone that is kite or paddle - shape .
the portion of the ysl that is outside of the blastoderm margin during epiboly .
cranial nerve which exits the medulla oblongata and controls the lateral movement of the eye .
is a mandibular muscle that consists of three subdivisions a1 ,  a2 ,  and a3 .
sensory trigeminal nucleus located at the tectal ventricle near the synencephalon and optic tectum  that contains large pyriform neurons .
series of paired muscles that have a distal attachment at the lateral  base of each ray and a proximal attachment  to the hypaxialis .
one of three fluid - filled semicircular tubes ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in each ear .
otolith part of lagena .
endochondral bone that is median and is the anterior - most bone of the ventral hyoid arch ,  the 'tongue' of the a fish .
the post - cranial structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins .
cns white matter that is part of the brain stem or spinal cord .
the portion of tissue forming the membrane connecting the branchiostegals and enclosing the gill chamber .
diencephalic tract which is located in the vicinity of the dorsal diencephalon and mesencephalon and connects the pretectal nuclei .
median unpaired cartilage bone that ossifies as a perichondral lamellae ensheathing the nasal septum anterodorsally and laterally  ( harrington ,  1955 )  .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the caudal hypothalamus and surrounds the paired posterior ventricular recesses of the third ventricle .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the caudal tuberculum .
vertebra bearing a hemal arch and spine .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
the egg shell .
space proximal to the urogenital pore where the pronephric duct ,  intestine and the oviduct or sperm duct  empties .
endochondral bone that articulates dorsally with the scapula and with the mesocoracoid when the latter is present ,  posteriorly with the lower two or three proximal radials and antero - ventrally with the cleithrum .
brain structure which is located ventrolaterally to the caudal preglomerular nucleus and in the dorsomedial aspect of the caudal protrusion of the inferior lobe of the hypothalamus .
cns white matter that is part of the diencephalon .
anatomical system that processes ingested substances .
peripheral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon which is a band of tightly packed cells starting at the level of the anterior commissure and disappearing more rostrally .
paired ,  deep caudal fin muscles that arise from a narrow insertion site at the 28th and 29th vertebrae ,  then extend toward the dorsal base of the caudal fin where they insert broadly on fin rays .
muscle of the dorsal fin that are thin ,  arise from the lateral edge of fin bases ,  and attach to the skin just above the epaxial muscle .
periventricular nucleus which lies rostral to the anterior commissure and is contiguous caudally with the supracommissural nucleus of the ventral telencephalon .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva positioned posterior to the ear .
extraocular muscle that inserts at the scleral corneal junction on the dorsal side of the eye .
tegmental nucleus that is immediately adjacent to the nucleus lateralis valvulae  ( nlv )  .
brain structure which is the dorsal most region of the hypothalamus and expands laterally and emerges caudal to the ventral zone and is separated from the median tuberal portion by a deep ventral sulcus .
skeletal muscle that is the dorsal - most component of the body musculature .
epipleurals lie below the horizontal septum and are posteroventrally directed .
anatomical cluster that is located in the anterior region of the cranium and provides structural support for the peripheral olfactory organ .
portion of tissue which is located between the glomerular layer and internal cellular layer of the olfactory bulb ,  and contains large mitral cells whose efferent axons form most of the lateral and medial olfactory tracts .
paired fasciculus that connects the habenula to the interpeduncular nucleus .
compound organ that consists of gill filaments ,  gill lamellae ,  gill rakers and pharyngeal arches 3 - 7 .
roof plate that is part of the midbrain .
dermal bone that is a small anterior projection present on all of pharyngeal arches 3 - 7 .
multi - tissue structure which is located in between the primary olfactory fiber layer and the external cellular layer of the olfactory bulb .
portion of tissue which is the innermost layer of the corpus cerebelli and consists of small granule cells and larger golgi cells .
cavitated compound organ that will become the adult heart following looping morphogenesis and valve formation .
the hypaxialis consists of that part of the body musculature lying ventral to the midlateral horizontal septum .
hypobranchials are the most medial of the bilaterally paired elements of the gill arches .
expanded and laterally flattened hemal arches and spines .
paired dermal bones ,  likened to a bone tube ,  positioned lateral to the supraethmoid .
hindbrain nucleus that provides descending innervation to the brainstem and spinal cord .
the outer protective barrier that separates the animal from its aquatic environment .
is a mandibular muscle that develops into the ventral intermandibularis anterior and posterior muscles .
otolith organ comprised of the macula lagena and asteriscus .
dermal bone that is situated under or posterior to the eye and associated with the infraorbital sensory canal .
portion of the lateral forebrain bundle that lies in the diencephalon .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
extraocular muscle that runs parallel to the long axis of the fish and inserts on the caudal side of the eye at the sclera - corneal  .
mandibular muscle that inserts along the dorsolateral faces of the hyosymplectics .
the lymphatic system consists of blind - ended vessels ,  fluid and macromolecules collected  from interstitial tissue space that serve as a conduit for the development and transport of lymphoid cells .
portion of tissue that is a patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium in the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
brain structure which is part of the vestibulolateralis lobe of the cerebellum .
preglomerular nucleus which is located between the lateral and caudal preglomerular nuclei of the caudal tuberculum .
telencephalic nucleus which is medially located and surrounds the central zone of dorsal telencephalon .
multi - tissue structure which is part of the hypothalamus and consists of caudal and ventral zones ,  and is separated from the dorsal hypothalamic zone by a deep ventral sulcus .
a mesh - like cell arrangement ,  less compact than an epithelium .
portion of tissue which is the outermost layer of the corpus cerebelli and consists largely of axons and dendrites .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 2 .
a regulatory system of the body that consists of neurons and neuroglial cells .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the caudal tuberculum .
the nucleus isthmi is a hindbrain nucleus located in the tegmentum of rhombomere 1 close to the secondary gustatory nucleus .
nucleus that lies rostral to the isthmic primary nucleus .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva positioned dorsal to the ear .
brain structure which is the paired anteriormost part of the telencephalon and are connected to the telencephalon by two tracts carrying secondary olfactory fibers .
female reproductive organ .the ovary is a bilobed cavitated organ located ventral to the swim bladder .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the synencephalon and is located adjacent to the caudal commissure .
cranial nerve which innervates muscles of the ocular motor system .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the superficial pretectum .
anatomical cluster of paired dermal and endochondral bones that attaches to the dorso - posterior part of the cranium ,  and support the radials and pectoral fin .
diencephalic nucleus which is located between the ventral thalamus and the hypothalamus .
dermal bone that is part of the pectoral girdle and located ventral to the supracleithrum and posterior to the cleithrum .
is an otic epithelium that will mature into the posterior crista .
otic vesicle protrusion that is anteriorly located and gives rise to the pillar of the posterior semicircular canal .
the part of the reproductive system that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
embryonic structure that is fated to become cephalic mesoderm .
sphincter at the junction of the esophagus and pneumatic duct .
presumptive structure fated to become endoderm .
embryonic structure part of the posterior presumptive neural plate that is fated to become the spinal cord .
multi - tissue structure that is the dorsal part of the diencephalon ,  caudal to the telencephalon ,  rostral to the midbrain optic tectum ;  the major sensory input to the pretectum is visual .
paired cartilage bones ,  flat and hexagonal in shape that contact the orbitosphenoid anteriorly .
reticular formation is a complex network of neurons and diffuse nuclei that extends from the spinal cord centrally along the length of the brain to the mesencephalon .
the retroarticular is a cartilage bone that forms at the posteroventral tip of meckel's cartilage where the interoperculomandibular ligament attaches  ( 5 .1 mm nl )  .
vein that joins with the posterior cardinal vein to form the common cardinal vein .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva positioned posteriorly to the second arch skeletal element .
cranial nerve which enters the brain between cranial nerves vi and vii and projects to a dorsal medullary area between cerebellum and vagal lobe .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the preoptic area and is the anterior continuation of the caudal parvocellular preoptic nucleus and is ventral to the telencephalon .
diencephalic nucleus which is located in the anterior portion of the dorsal thalamus .
otolith organ comprised of the macula saccule and sagitta .
the scaphium is a modification of na 1 in which the neural arch is reduced and fused to a cup - shaped ossification of membrane bone ,  the concha .
white matter connecting the primary gustatory nuclei to  the secondary gustatory nucleus in the isthmus .
fluid - filled semicircular tubes ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in the inner ear .
cranial nerve which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons running posterior medially towards the optic chiasm ,  at which the axons cross the midline and after which the structure is termed the optic tract .
organ that filters the blood removing defective blood cells .
hemal arch and spine of preural centrum 1 .
ventral ,  superficial ,  paired muscle that originates from the posterior part of the protractor ishii tendon and the midline .
hindbrain nucleus that is located in ventral rhombomeres 1 - 3 and gives rise to ascending fibers innervating most areas of the brain .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the preoptic area and is ventrolateral to the caudal parvocellular preoptic nucleus .
supraneurals independent ,  median ,  elongate ,  rod - like cartilages or bones in the dorsal skeletogenous septum between the cranium and the dorsal fin .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva consisting of three neuromast positioned superior to the eye .
multi - tissue structure that is the dorsal part of the midbrain and develops from the alar plate and is the most complex layered structure in the zebrafish brain .
portion of tissue that is part of the primitive meninx which forms a fold ,  roofing a ventricle of the brain and supporting the choroid plexus .
diencephalic nucleus which is located ventral to the medial preglomerular nucleus in the caudal tuberculum .
multi - tissue structure that is a paired longitudinal eminence of granular cells that develops from the alar plate and is attached to the tegmentum in the medial tectal ventricle .
portion of tissue ,  located on the upper jaw that defines the caudal extent of the labial cavity .
the urohyal is a median dermal bone that ossifies in the membrane between the paired sternohyoideus muscles ventral to the anterior end of copula 1 .
cranial nerve that innervates gill muscles .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the central pretectum and is ventromedial to the magnocellular superficial pretectal nucleus and the caudal pretectal nucleus .
paired ,  deep caudal fin muscles that originate from the 30th vertebra then project from the vertebral column to the ventral base of the caudal fin where they attach broadly to ventral caudal fin rays .
periventricular nucleus which lies rostral to the anterior commissure of the ventral telencephalon .
extraocular muscle that inserts at the scleral - corneal junction on the ventral side of the eye .
a group of modified neural arches and spines of the first four vertebrae .
hyoid muscle that originates at the first branchiostegal ray and inserts in the mesial aponeurosis ,  meeting its contralateral counterpart .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva positioned anterior to the ear .
is a dorsal ,  paired hyoid muscle that moves the auditory capsules with the opercles .
series of  muscles that  have an anterior attachment  at posteriorlateral base of each ray and posterior attachment at the haemal spines .
dermal and endochondral compound bone that results from the fusion of the dermal angular and the endochondral articular and forms the posterior part of the lower jaw .
is an otic epithelium that will mature into the anterior crista .
otic vesicle protrusion that is anteriorly located and gives rise to the pillar of the anterior semicircular canal .
area of the forebrain anterior to the posterior tuberculum and the hypothalamus and ventral to the ventral thalamus .
cavitated compound organ that receives inflow of deoxygenated blood and delivers it to a muscular cardiac ventricle .
large median unpaired cartilage bone that contacts the exoccipital ,  epiotic and pterotic dorsally ,  and the parasphenoid anteriorly .
muscle system in the trunk .
small membrane bone homologous with a cartilage bone in more basal fishes  ( patterson ,  1977 )  .
diencephalic nucleus which is located anterior to the caudal tuberal nucleus and contains tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive csf contacting bipolar cells .
dermal bone that is a bilaterally paired and flattened element that supports the branchiostegal membrane .
continuation of the caudal vein cranial to the anal pore .
brainstem tract which carries cerebellar afferents from the dorsal tegmental nucleus and nucleus lateralis valvulae .
hindbrain nucleus which is part of the medulla oblongata and is a mechanoreceptive area along with the medial octavolateralis nucleus .
preglomerular nucleus which is the most caudomedial of the preglomerular nuclei of the caudal tuberculum .
diencephalic nucleus which is located posterior to the paraventricular organ .
diencephalic nucleus which is part of the inferior lobe of the hypothalamus and consists of masses of large cells presumably migrated from the periventricular cell masses and receives signals from the secondary gustatory nucleus .
paired dermal bone that covers the hind part of the cranium ,  overlapping the dorsal edge of the sphenotic ,  pterotic ,  epiotic and the anterior edge of the supraoccipital .
telencephalic nucleus which is centrally located and is surrounded by the other four dorsal telencephalic regions .
endochondral bone that is bilaterally paired and forms part of the ventral branchial arches .
cerebellar commissure which is located within the ventral boundary zone between valvula and corpus cerebelli .
commissure in the  ventral diencephalon that lies rostral to the ventral flexure and caudal of the posterior tuberal nucleus .
plate like dermal bone with usually only one neuromast pore  ( nelson ,  1969 )  .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
dorsal pelvic fin muscle that originates at the anterior side of the basipterygium ,  lies mostly parallel to the pelvic fin rays and attaches and inserts on the bases of all the pelvic fin rays .
mandibular muscle that inserts along the dorsolateral faces of the opercles .
the muscle that acts as an antagonist to the arrector ventralis ,  reversing the direction of the leading edge of the pectoral fin to initiate the upstroke .
dorsal fin muscle that moves individual rays the dorsal fin to an erect position .
trigeminal motor nucleus that is located dorsal to the lateral longitudinal fascicle .
brain structure which is the dorsal part of the telencephalon ,  most of which is developmentally everted such that the ependymal lining of the unpaired median ventricle becomes located at the apparent periphery of the telencephalon .
telencephalic nucleus which is the most dorsally located part of the dorsal telencephalon and surrounds the central zone of dorsal telencephalon .
some or all epineural bones ossify free from the neural arches in most teleosts .
internal skeletal supports of the pelvic fin .
brain structure which is part of the diencephalon and consists of the dorsal and ventral nuclei of the habenula ,  and two dorsal outgrowths ,  the epiphysis and the saccus dorsalis .
muscle system surrounding the eye .
hindbrain nucleus that doesn't project to the spinal cord .
fast muscle cell located in somite 1 .
large elongated paired dermal bones that roof the cranium and bear part of the supraorbital canal .
tissue located on the ventral side of the optic tectum ,   that  contains the cell bodies of most tectal neurons .
hindbrain nucleus which is longitudinally oriented and situated along the ventral fourth ventricle and extends rostrally up to the level of the tegmentum of the midbrain .
hemal arches extend ventrally from the centra of caudal and transitional vertebrae to enclose the caudal artery and vein .
muscles that insert into skeletal elements of pharyngeal arch 2  ( hyoid arch )  .
hyoid muscle that originates at the anterior ceratohyals and inserts into the mesial aponeurosis ,  meeting its contralateral counterpart .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva consistingo of four neuromast that are positioned inferior or posterior to the eye a sensory system on the surface of the fish ,  consisting of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  distributed in discrete lines over the body surface .
third weberian ossicle .the intercalarium is a y -  or t - shaped modification of neural arch 2 in which an anteriolateral process  ( the manubrium )  is embedded in the interossicular ligament ;  other parts include the ascending and articulating processes .
axial bone which is a segmental ossification that forms in the myoseptum ;  found in teleosts fishes only .
the pharyngobranchials are the dorsalmost bones of the branchial arches located immediately dorsal and medial to the epibranchials .
muscle of the caudal fin that attaches to the appendicular skeleton and attaches to the first long ray on the dorsal side of the caudal fin .
cavitated compound organ located in the pleuroperitoneal cavity where hematopoiesis and filtering of blood occur .
otolith part of utricle .
lateral division of the valvula cerebelli .
the lateral longitudinal fascicule is an ascending bundle of axons .
telencephalic nucleus which is laterally located and surrounds the central zone of dorsal telencephalon .
hyoid muscle that originates at the ventrolateral margin of the pterotic and inserts in the dorsomesial edge of the opercle .
endochondral bone that is intersegmental and rod - shaped ,  forming in the peritoneal membrane and attached to the vertebral parapophyses .
the locus coeruleus is a widely projecting isthmal noradrenergic nucleus .
cells  ( incompletely cleaved before the ysl forms )  ,  located at the surface just at the rim of the blastodisc ,  external to the deep blastomeres .
the medial longitudinal fasciculus  ( mlf )  is a pair of crossed fiber tracts  ( group of axons )  ,  that begin with in the nucleus of the mlf and run ventral to the rhombencephalic ventricle ,  towards the caudal end of the medulla oblongata .
brain structure that is located ventrocaudal to the cerebellum and just anterior to the spinal cord and contains the sensory and motor nuclei of six cranial nerves .
duct of the adult kidney  ( mesonephros )  ,  present bilaterally ventral to the somites and leading to the cloacal chamber .
anatomical system consisting of the cardiac ,  skeletal and smooth muscles .
paired fin bone that attaches the pectoral girdle to the skull via two projections contacting the epiotic and intercalar bones ,  and carry the main laterosensory canal .
external openings to the nasal cavity .
hindbrain nucleus in the tegmental region of rhombomere 1 .
nucleus located in the midbrain tegmentum that controls motor coordination during locomotion .
nasal epithelium wherein ciliated olfactory receptor neurons ,  supporting cells ,  and basal cells are located .
a large flap ,  covered by integument ,   supported by several flat bones ,  actuated by muscles ,  found on the side of the head covering the gill chambers .
decussation of cranial nerve ii axons whereby the retinal axons cross the midline ,  projecting contralaterally through the optic tract .
vertebra anterior to the urostyle ;  sometimes termed the 'penultimate' vertebra .
macula that is located in the developing posterior inner ear ,  and gives rise to the macula neglecta and the macula saccule .
cavitated compound organ that is a fluid filed chamber with  a maculae on one surface and associated otolith tethered to the maculae .
duct that connects ovary with cloacal chamber .
long ,  unpaired median dermal bone that runs almost the entire length of the cranium .
musculature that is part of the pectoral fin .
deep pelvic muscle that originates from the basipterygium  and lies manly parallel to the rays and attaches to the base of all the rays except ray 1 .
anatomical cluster that consists of the paired basipterygia which support the pelvic fin .
patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium that is associated with the posterior semicircular canal .
the premaxilla is a bone of the upper jaw .
presumptive structure fated to become blood .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the hindbrain .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the telencephalon .
portion of tissue which is the innermost layer of the olfactory bulb .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the diencephalon .
paired cartilage bone that contacts the pterosphenoid anteriorly ,  the sphenotic and the pterotic dorsally ,  and the epiotic and basioccipital posteriorly .
paired cartilage bone that contacts the autosphenotic anteriorly ,  the parietal dorsally ,  the prootic ventrally ,  and the epiotic and exoccipital posteriorly .
afferent vein that supplies the kidney .
endochondral bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates with the hypohyal cartilage or bone ,  dorsal and ventral hypohyals ,  and epihyal posteriorly .
brainstem tract which carries cerebellar afferents from the pretectum and runs medial to the lateral longitudinal fascicle for a distance before turning dorsally to traverse the nucleus lateralis valvulae .
preglomerular nucleus which is the most rostrolaterally located of the preglomerular nuclei of the caudal tuberculum .
diencephalic nucleus which is the most anterior and lateral part of the ventral hypothalamic zone .
endochondral bone that is located medial to the cleithrum ,  and articulates ventrally with the coracoid ,  medially with the mesocoracoid when the later is present and posteriorly with the upper one to three proximal radials .
cranial cartilage which is a small median cartilage located between the premaxillae and anterodorsal to the ethmoid .
vertebra anterior to preural centrum 1 ;  sometimes termed the 'antepenultimate' vertebra .
paired cartilage bone that contacts the pterosphenoid anteriorly ,  the prootic ventrally ,  and the pterotic posteriorly .
the sensory ganglion of the ear .
anatomical groove which separates the dorsal and medial zones of dorsal telencephalon .
region of the head where the mouth and oral structures are located .
portion of presumptive mesoderm fated to become paraxial mesoderm .
superficial ,  dorsal pelvic fin muscle that originates at the anterior side of the basipterygium and inserts onto all pelvic fin rays except ray 1 .
dermal bone that articulates dorsally with the posttemporal and ventrally with the cleithrum .
large shield - shaped unpaired median cartilage bone that contact the parietal anteriorly ,  and the exoccipital and epiotic laterally .
cns white matter that is part of the telencephalon .
male reproductive organ .adult zebrafish testes are paired organs forming elongated structures ,  internally organized into tubules .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the midbrain and develops from the alar plate .
cranial nerve that innervates the oculomotor system .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the synencephalon and the pretectum and is located periventricularly .
neural arch that extends along the dorso - lateral surface of the last preural centra and / or ural centra and the notochord  ( arratia & schultze ,  1992 )  .
brain structure which is caudally attached to the rostral medulla oblongata and extends into the tectal ventricle .
outflow artery from the heart to the aortic arches .
brainstem commissure that intersects the medial longitudinal fasciculus .
midbrain nucleus which is part of the torus semicircularis and is the target of ascending octavolateralis systems related to mechanoreception .
connective tissue partitions developing between the myotomes .
collection of the visceromotor nuclei and their fiber tracts in the medulla oblongata .
muscle located on ventral side of the head ,  linking the ventral hyoid arch to the dentary .
abductor muscle that develops from the primitive pectoral fin abductor .
hyoid muscle that originates at the parasphenoid and inserts into the mesial sides of the hyomandibula ,  metapterygoid and entopterygoid .
small thin adductor muscle that is part of the pectoral fin .
series of muscles that have a distal attachment at the anteriolateral base of each ray and spike and a proximal attachment to the haemal spines .
brainstem commissure located immediately rostral to the interpeduncular nucleus .
patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium that is associated with the anterior semicircular canal .
the cartilaginous autopalatine forms from the anterior palatoquadrate arch .
the quadrate is the dorsal bone in the jaw joint with the anguloarticular of the lower jaw .
surface structure which is a tactile structure found in the branchial region .
endochondral bone that is paired and supports the pelvic fin .
brainstem and spinal tract which emerges medial to the caudal intermediate reticular formation and runs caudally along the medial edge of the inferior reticular formation .
endochondral bone that begins ossifying on the anterior surface of the posterior end of the ceratohyal cartilage near the site of articulation with the interhyal  ( 5 .8 mm )  .
fin musculature that is part of the caudal fin .
abducens motor nucleus which is located at the level of the intermediate reticular formation .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the preoptic area and is the posterior continuation of the rostral parvocellular preoptic nucleus .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the superficial pretectum and is rostrally contiguous with the magnocellular superficial pretectal nucleus .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
brain structure which is part of the diencephalon and is larger than the dorsal thalamus and ventral thalamus .
multi - tissue structure which forms most of the median tuberal portion of the hypothalamus .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the central pretectum and is dorsal to the magnocellular superficial pretectal nucleus and the caudal pretectal nucleus .
portion of tissue composed of parallel fibers that originate at the granular eminence that overlays the rhombencephalic lateral line region .
postcranial axial cartilage and weberian ossicle that is located dorsal to the scaphium .
anterior commissure which is located immediately ventral to the supracommissural nucleus of area ventralis telencephali .
cerebellar commissure that runs between the bulbo - spinal tract and the vestibulo - spinal tract .
multi - tissue structure that forms the transparent front part of the eye ,  covering the iris ,  pupil and anterior chamber .
twelve pairs of cranial nerves exit / enter the cranium through openings in the skull .
cns white matter comprised of the rostral mesencephalo - cerebellar and caudal mesencephalo - cerebellar tracts .
rod - like internal median skeletal support bones of the anal fin ,  which articulate with the lepidotrichia distally .
diencephalic nucleus which is located in the caudal portion of the dorsal thalamus ,  dorsal to the central caudal thalamic nucleus .
musculature that is part of the dorsal fin .
dorsal pelvic fin muscle that originates at the anterior side of the basipterygium and inserts onto the base of the first pelvic fin ray .
the afferent sensory portion of the spinal nerve root .
multi - tissue structure that is the dorsal part of the thalamus and emerges ventral to the caudal portion of the ventral habenular nucleus .
abducens motor nucleus which is located at the level of the superior reticular formation .
the ectopterygoid is dermal bone located at the anterior part of the palatoquadrate .
the entopterygoid is a dermal bone that forms the anteroventral and ventral surface of the orbit .
pharyngeal arch bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial cartilage or bone .
a free ,  modified neural spine of a preural or a ural vertebra that is placed between the last developed neural spine of a preural centrum and the dorsal axis  ( = anterior margin of first uroneural )  of the caudal skeleton  .
paired cartilage bone that bears a large foramen  ( lateral occipital foramen )  .
dermal canal - bearing bone placed at the dorso - posterior region of the skull roof ,  lying on the posterior region of the pterotic and parietals ,  or the pterotic and epioccipital ,  or on the pterotic ,  epioccipital and occipital bones .
cranial nerve where motor axons innervate muscles derived from the second branchial arch .
artery of the gill filament .
portion of tissue that projects outward from the gill and is a thread - like ,  soft ,  red respiratory and excretory structure .
cranial nerve that innervates gill muscles .
the zebrafish head kidney consists of fused bilateral lobes located in the anterior part of the kidney .
vein that carries blood away from the liver .
a connective tissue partition developing at the apex of the chevron - shaped myotome and separating dorsal  ( epaxial )  and ventral  ( hypaxial )  body wall muscle masses .
the hyomandibula is the large ,  dorsal - most member of the hyoid arch .
a pair of ha are connect one to each aa1 .
dermal bone that is located anterior to the subopercle and lying below and slightly ventral to the horizontal limb of the preopercle .
otolith that is part of the sacculus .
specialized neuronal receptor cells of the anterior macula .
heart valve that forms between the atrium and the sinus venosus .
paired ,  dorsomedially directed processes on the posterior ends of the centra ,  ligamentously joined to the neural prezygapophyses of the immediately posterior vertebra .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the synencephalon ,  is located adjacent to the caudal commissure and contains ciliated neurosecretory ependymal cells .
cns white matter  ( commissure )  that runs between the optic tectal hemispheres .
abductor muscle that develops from the primitive pectoral fin abductor .
multi - tissue structure that is the superficial part of the pretectum and is embedded in the optic tract .
supporting cell that is part of the olfactory epithelium .
periventricular nucleus which is contiguous with the caudal part of the dorsal nucleus of the ventral telencephalon and the postcommissural nucleus .
paired dermal bones that form the anterodorsal margin of the orbit .
the symplectic is an irregularly rod - shaped cartilage replacement bone articulating with the hyomandibular and quadrate .
the tangential nucleus is located in rhombomere 5 and receives a dense utricular input .
is a multi - tissue structure composed of dentine ,  enameloid and tooth pulp .
the anatomical space located between the lips and the oral valves .
cranial nerve which exits the medulla oblongata and carries both sensory and motor axons to and from the facial region .
the fourth weberian ossicle .the tripus is a complex modification of the parapophysis and rib of the third vertebra .
otolith organ comprised of the macula utricle and lapillus .
muscle that is important in controlling the leading edge of the pectoral fin in the juvenile zebrafish ,  particularly during the initiation of the downstroke .
trigeminal motor nucleus that is located at the ventrolateral edge of the lateral longitudinal fascicle .
deep ,  narrow muscle that arises anteriorly and laterally of the pelvic abductor profundus .
the efferent motor portion of the spinal nerve root .
the posterior intestine has short longitudinally arranged epithelial folds which are similar to the colon of higher vertebrates .
multi - tissue structure which is the ventral region of the median tuberal portion of the hypothalamus and is the most rostral region of the hypothalamus .
a multilayer of deep cells of fairly uniform thickness that forms during early epiboly  ( at dome stage ;  upon conversion of the blastodisc to the blastoderm )  ;  during gastrulation the del  ( deep cell layer )  gives rise to the epiblast and hypoblast .
the portion of the ysl that lies deep to the blastoderm during epiboly .
hindbrain motor nucleus which is the origin of motor axons of cranial nerve vi .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the central pretectum and lies dorsolateral to the caudal pretectal nucleus .
hyoid muscle that originates at the opercle and subopercle and inserts into the branchiostegal rays .
artery that is part of the pharyngeal arches 3 - 5 ,  and forms the afferent portion of a loop off of the aortic arch .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the median fin fold .
the epaxial region of somite 27 derived body wall muscle .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 11 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 14 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 17 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 2 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
the epaxial region of somite 3 derived body wall muscle .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 23 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 27 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 3 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 7 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
vertebra which are the three most posterior vertebra supporting the caudal fin .
paired ,  ventromedially directed processes on the posterior ends of the centra ,  ligamentously joined to the hemal postzygapophyses of the immediately posterior vertebra .
skeletal system that is part of the head ,  including the splanchnocranium ,  chondrocranium ,  and dermatocranium .
extraocular muscle innervated by the trochlear nerve .
the epaxial region of somite 11 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 5 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 14 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 17 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 2 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 22 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 25 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 28 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 30 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 6 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 9 derived body wall muscle .
fast muscle cell located in somite 10 .
the epaxial region of somite 8 derived body wall muscle .
fast muscle cell located in somite 13 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 16 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 19 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 21 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 24 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 27 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 3 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 5 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 8 .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
cranial neural crest that gives rise to the facio - acoustic ganglion .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 2 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 5 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 8 .
portion of tissue which is part of the valvula cerebelli and consists largely of axons and dendrites .
the hypaxial region of somite 11 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 14 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 17 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 2 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 22 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 25 derived body wall muscle .
fast muscle cell located in somite 12 .
the hypaxial region of somite 28 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 30 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 6 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 9 derived body wall muscle .
a cns interneuron located in the spinal cord .
portion of the lateral forebrain bundle that lies in the telencephalon .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the diencephalic region of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 1 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 4 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 7 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 15 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the telencephalic region of the neural tube .
mesenchyme part of dorsal fin .
mesoderm that is part of the pectoral fin bud .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 10 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 13 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 16 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 19 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 22 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 18 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 25 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 28 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 30 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 6 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 9 .
portion of somite 11 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 15 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 18 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 20 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 23 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
fast muscle cell located in somite 20 .
portion of somite 16 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 29 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 4 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 7 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
cranial neural crest that is part of the diencephalon .
cranial neural crest that is part of the telencephalon .
neuromast that is part of the infraorbital lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the opercular lateral line .
the epithelium that lines the oral cavity .
fast muscle cell located in somite 23 .
vagal neural crest is adjacent to the first seven somites gives rise to both ganglionic and ectomesenchymal derivatives .
periventricular nucleus which is contiguous with the supracommissural nucleus of the ventral telencephalon .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 1 .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 4 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 2 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 6 .
midbrain nucleus which is part of the torus semicircularis and is the target of ascending octavolateralis systems related to audition .
fast muscle cell located in somite 26 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 5 .
ventromedial region of somite 11 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 14 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 17 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 2 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 22 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 25 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 28 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 30 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 6 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
fast muscle cell located in somite 29 .
ventromedial region of somite 9 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
fast muscle cell located in somite 4 .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 12 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 15 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment 18 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail 21 segment or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 24 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 28 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 4 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 8 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
modified hemal arches and spines that support the caudal fin .
fast muscle cell located in somite 7 .
extraocular muscle that inserts at the scleral - corneal junction on the ventral side of the eye .
median fin skeleton supporting the caudal fin .
anatomical cluster that is part of the cranium and composed of dermally derived bones .
the epaxial region of somite 1 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 12 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 15 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 18 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 20 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 23 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 26 derived body wall muscle .
floor plate that is part of the diencephalon .
the epaxial region of somite 29 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 4 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 7 derived body wall muscle .
cranial neural crest that is part of the facial region .
fast muscle cell located in somite 11 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 14 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 17 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 2 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 22 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 25 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 1 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 28 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 30 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 6 .
fast muscle cell located in somite 9 .
floor plate that is part of the neural rod .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 3 .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 6 .
floor plate that is part of the spinal cord .
the hypaxial region of somite 1 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 12 derived body wall muscle .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 4 .
the hypaxial region of somite 15 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 18 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 20 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 23 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 26 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 29 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 4 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 7 derived body wall muscle .
musculature associated with the hypurals .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomere 7 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the midbrain region of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 2 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 5 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 8 .
mesenchyme part of median fin fold .
portion of tissue which is part of the valvula cerebelli and contains neuronal cell bodies .
floor plate that is part of the telencephalon .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 11 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 14 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 17 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 20 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 23 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 26 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 29 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 4 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 7 .
portion of somite 1 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
the hypaxial region of somite 10 derived body wall muscle .
portion of somite 12 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 16 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 19 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 21 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 24 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 27 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 3 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 5 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 8 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
neural crest that is part of the midbrain .
rod - like internal median skeletal support bones of the dorsal fin ,  which articulate with the lepidotrichia distally .
the hypaxial region of somite 13 derived body wall muscle .
spinal cord structure that is part of the ventricular system and is filled with cerebral - spinal fluid and runs the length of the spinal cord .
neuromast that is part of the middle lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the posterior lateral line .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the synencephalon ,  is located adjacent to the caudal commissure ,  and extends axons into the medial longitudinal fasciculus .
skeleton that consists of the supporting endochondral proximal and distal radials and the dermal fins rays or lepidotrichia .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva .
the hypaxial region of somite 16 derived body wall muscle .
rod - like internal median skeletal support bones of the dorsal fin ,  which articulate with the distal radials .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 2 .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 6 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 3 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 7 .
ventromedial region of somite 1 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 12 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 15 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 18 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 20 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
the hypaxial region of somite 19 derived body wall muscle .
ventromedial region of somite 23 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 26 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 29 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 4 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 7 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
the hypaxial region of somite 21 derived body wall muscle .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 10 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 13 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 16 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk or tail segment 19 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 22 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
the hypaxial region of somite 24 derived body wall muscle .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 25 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early tail segment 29 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 6 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
undifferentiated mesodermal component of early trunk segment 9 or metamere ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm ;  forms the myotome ,  sclerotome and perhaps dermatome .
the hypaxial region of somite 27 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 3 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 5 derived body wall muscle .
the hypaxial region of somite 8 derived body wall muscle .
the epaxial region of somite 10 derived body wall muscle .
portion of tissue located at either side of the neural rod .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 3 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the neural tube in rhombomere 6 .
multi - tissue structure forming the sides of the lumen of the spinal cord .
sensory trigeminal nucleus located at the end of the medulla oblongata .
mesenchyme that is part of the pectoral fin .
the epaxial region of somite 13 derived body wall muscle .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 12 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 15 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 18 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 21 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 24 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 27 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 3 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 5 .
muscle pioneer cell part of somite 8 .
the epaxial region of somite 16 derived body wall muscle .
portion of somite 10 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 13 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 17 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 2 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 22 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 25 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 28 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 30 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 6 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
portion of somite 9 that gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
the epaxial region of somite 19 derived body wall muscle .
neural crest that is part of the trunk .
neuromast that is part of the occipital lateral line .
neuromast that is part of the supraorbital lateral line .
space within the oral region .
the paired bony lateral extensions off the parhypural .
membrane on the apical surface of the retina .
the epaxial region of somite 21 derived body wall muscle .
anteriormost hindbrain segment or neuromere .
hindbrain segment or neuromere posterior to rhombomere 3 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 1 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 4 .
roof plate that is part of rhombomere 8 .
ventromedial region of somite 10 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 13 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 16 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 19 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
the epaxial region of somite 24 derived body wall muscle .
ventromedial region of somite 21 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 24 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 27 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 3 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 5 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
ventromedial region of somite 8 that will form vertebral cartilages and connective tissues .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
branch of the internal carotid artery that extends caudally along the sides of the midbrain and eventually drains into the basilar artery via the posterior communicating artery .
the paired vessels that run along the lateral walls of the hindbrain and drain into the anterior cardinal veins .
artery that originates as rostral extensions of the paired lateral dorsal aorta .
connect the outflow of the aortic arches to the dorsal aorta .
the juncture where the pronephric ducts empty into the cloaca .
muscle that develops from somite and gives rise to body wall muscle masses .
veins that connect the posterior cardinal vein and the dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
fin that is the most posterior median fin .
caudal branch of the internal carotid artery that gives rise to the branches that supply the diencephalon and telencephalon .
basidorsals are bilaterally paired cartilages on the dorsolateral side of the notochord which are replaced by ossified neural arches or dorsal arcocentra .
arteries that connect the dorsal aorta and the dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
artery that branches dorsally from the cranial division of the internal carotid artery ,  then curves caudally along the dorsal medial wall of the eye capsule to drain into the pmbc just rostral to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a segment of the developing hindbrain .
a neural arch encloses the neural canal and typically meets its partner to form a neural spine .
vein that branches from the primordial hindbrain channel  ( phbc )  at 1 .3 dpf .
artery in the midbrain that develops from the proximal portion of the primitive mesencephalic artery .
region of the median fin fold that develops into the anal and caudal fin .
presumptive structure part of the intermediate mesoderm ,  that is fated to become pronephric mesoderm .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue formed form thyroid follicle cells that forms along the midline in pharyngeal mesenchyme .
vasculature that runs along the rostral - caudal axis of the fish .
pear or onion - shaped intraepithelial sensory endorgans .
the narrow cleft along the medial wall of the lateral ventricle along the margins of which the choroid plexus is attached ;  it lies between the upper surface of the thalamus and lateral edge of the fornix in the central part of the ventricle and between the terminal stria and fimbria hippocampi in the inferior horn .
the bulbous anteriormost portion of the intestine has the most digestive enzymes and the greatest epithelial surface area .
a small outgrowth of the pharyngeal epithelium that is the site of lymphocyte cell production .
paired organ where maturation of t - lymphocytes occurs .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains blood that is actively transported around the organism .
portion of somite that gives rise to skeletal elements .
portion of tissue part of the pharyngeal endoderm that is fated to become thyroid follicle .
portion of tissue that is posterior to the developing notochord during tail bud extension .
proliferative region that is part of the ventricular system .
cells that develop from adaxial cells  that express engrailed and do not migrate completely to the lateral surface of the myotome ,  and instead extend from the notochord to the lateral surface of the somite ,  at the level of the future horizontal myoseptum .
annotation with this anatomy term indicates that a structure was not specified by the author .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of danio rerio .
is an otic sensory epithelium that will develop into the mature macula .
is an otic sensory epithelium that will develop into the mature anterior macula .
is an otic sensory epithelium that will develop into the mature posterior macula .
a hair cell which is immature and located in the anterior macula .
a hair cell which is immature and located in the posterior macula .
a duct that carries bile from the liver to the intestine .
sensory system that uses taste buds to sense chemical compounds .
anatomical structure that is part of the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells .
outpocketings of pharyngeal endoderm that interdigitate with the neural crest derived pharyngeal arches .
portion of tissue that develops into a gill .
telencephalic white matter  ( commissure )  which connects the two cerebral hemispheres across the midline .
a female germ cell that has entered meiosis .
oocyte development of zebrafish has been divided into five stages based on morphological criteria and on physiological and biochemical events .
acellular anatomic structure that is a layer that  separates the developing oocyte and the granulosa cell layer .
portion of tissue part of the ovarian follicle containing a single layer of granulosa cells that surround the developing oocyte .
multi - tissue structure of the ovarian follicle ,  composed of stromal cells and capillaries that covers oocytes .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body which consists of the cranial and pharyngeal regions .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the head and anterior to the post - vent region .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the vent which includes the anal and caudal fins .
a protuberance in front of the gential pore and behind the vent .
a collagenous layer of the skin subjacent to the epidermis and covering the hypodermis .
presumptive structure fated to become the shield .
portion of tissue that consists of a layer of cells that form during embryogenesis that will give rise to all structures of the organism .
postcranial axial skeleton that is unpaired and located on the sagittal plane of the organism .
median fin skeleton located on the dorsal surface of the organism .
the dorsal marginal region of the ysl where maternal dorsal determinants localize .
the nem cell cluster lies in a superficial position of the dorsal blastoderm margin encompassing evl cells and one or two layers of underlying deep cells .
sensory system responsible for the perception of light .
portion of tissue that is the cavity - containing primordium of the central nervous system ,  developing from the neural rod in the late segmentation period .
a layer separating the inner face of the dermis from the subjacent muscle cells .
tooth row that is the ventralmost row of teeth on ceratobranchial 5 bone .
sensory system responsible for the perception of spatial orientation and auditory stimuli .
tooth row that is the mediodorsal row of teeth on ceratobranchial 5 bone ,  located between the dorsal tooth row and ventral tooth row .
tooth row that is the dorsalmost row of teeth on ceratobranchial 5 bone .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the anteriormost tooth in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 3v and anterior to tooth 5v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 1v and anterior to tooth 3v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 2v and anterior to tooth 4v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the anteriormost tooth in the mediodorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 1md and anterior to tooth 3md in the mediodorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the anteriormost tooth in the dorsal tooth row .
sensory system responsible for olfaction .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the dorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the mediodorsal tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 2md and anterior to tooth 4md in the mediodorsal tooth row .
placode that develops into a tooth .
musculature part of the anal fin .
nervous system that  is involved primarily with the internal regulation of the gustatory processes .
dorsolateral placode that gives rise to the posterior lateral line .
a migrating group of cells originating from the posterior lateral line placode .
anatomical system that produces ,  transports and secretes peptides .
system that provides protection against foreign and abnormal cells and removes cellular debris .
paired fin that is located in the thoracic region of the body .
median fin that is located posterior to the anus .
supraneural located between vertebra 6 and 7 .
supraneural located between vertebra 5 and 6 .
supraneural located between  vertebra 4 and 5 .
supraneural located between vertebra 8 and 9 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to the neurocranium .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 1 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 2 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 3 .
thin ,  rod - shaped ,  anteroventrally directed membrane bone that develops as a separate outgrowth  from the cartilage parapophysis of the fourth vertebra ;  develops ventrally to curve around the anterior head of the swim bladder .
cartilaginous larval structure dorsal to the four anterior - most vertebrae ,  which forms the connection between neural arches and supraneurals in the weberian apparatus .
median fin that is located on the dorsal surface of the fish .
epithelium lining the pharynx consisting largely of simple columnar epithelium with a short segment  ( 1mm )  of stratified squamous epithelium on the ventral side .
embryonic structure that is the dome of cytoplasm that segregates from the yolk toward the animal pole during and after the one cell - stage ,  and which undergoes cleavage .
embryonic structure that is composed of the cellular part of the embryo ,  excluding the yolk cell ,  derived from the blastodisc by early morphogenesis ;  refers particularly to the time when the cell array is sheet - like ,  between 30% - epiboly and the end of gastrulation .
the outer layer of the epidermis .
lower layer of the epidermis .
the tissue which lies between the basal stratum and the superficial stratum .
portion of the dermis characterized by a well - arranged ,  plywood - like ,  collagenous network .
outer portion of the dermis composed of a loose collagenous matrix housing numerous fibroblasts ,  nerves ,  some pigment cells ,  and scales .
paired fin located in the abdominal position of the body .
the outermost epidermal layer covering the fish at embryonic stages ;  derived from the evl and thought to eventually be replaced by the superficial stratum of the epidermis .
acellular anatomical structure that is a layer of collagen fibrils in the immature integument in a subepidermal space .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
the weberian apparatus consists of the modified anteriormost four vertebrae and associated structures of otophysans which transduce sound or pressure waves from the tunica externa of the swim bladder to the inner ear  ( alexander ,  1962 )  .
all serially repeated ossified ,  cartilaginous ,  and ligamentous elements around the notochord  ( schultze and arratia ,  1988 )  .
the first four vertebrae ,  which are part of the weberian apparatus .
supraneural 2 is an ovoid cartilage or cartilage replacement bone located above centrum 2 .
supraneural 3 is an elongated cartilage or cartilage replacement bone above vertebrae 3 and 4 ,  developmentally fusing with na 3 and 4 .
supraneural located between vertebra 7 and 8 .
neural crest that is part of the head .
the anterior portion of the adenohypophysis .
caudal portion of the adenohypophysis .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the adenohypophysis .
brain structure which is a short stalk connecting the neurohypophysis with the brain .
islands of eosinic cells found on the lateroventral surface of the kidney .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye .
multi - tissue structure that attach the zonules ,  that suspend the lens ,  to the eye .
region of the mesoderm that is located along the rostral - caudal axis of the embryo .
meckel's cartilage is the bilaterally paired ,  rod - like ,  cartilaginous ventral component of the lower jaw ,  or ventral mandibular arch .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 1 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 2 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 7 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 6 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 5 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 4 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 3 .
embryonic structure ,  part of the neural keel ,  that gives rise to rhombomere 8 .
multi - tissue structure that is paired ,  and is situated one on either side of and forming part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle .
anatomical cluster that is the regional skeletal system of the jaws ,  hyoid and branchial arches .
tissue along the  lateral edges of the shield that is fated to develop into the hypochord .
embryonic structure ,  the part of the neural plate fated to become floor plate .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with more than one pharyngeal arch in the pharyngeal arch 3 - 7 skeleton .
copula that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with pharyngeal arches 3 - 5 .
copula that is ventral ,  median ,  and associated with pharyngeal arches 6 - 7 .
basibranchial 1 ossifies posterior to the basihyal and anterior to the first hypobranchials in copula 1  ( 7 .6 mm )  .
basibranchial 2 ossifies in copula 1 posterior to the first hypobranchials and anterior to the second hypobranchials  ( 6 .8 mm )  .
basibranchial 3 ossifies in copula 1 posterior to the second hypobranchials ,  anterior to the third hypobranchials  ( 7 .6 mm )  and associated with pharyngeal arch 5 .
occasionally ,  a fourth basibranchial ossifies in the narrow copula 2 cartilage ,  which lies posterior to the third basibranchial and anterior to the anteromedial articulation of the fifth ceratobranchials .
skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the first pharyngeal arch .
anatomical cluster made up of skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the third pharyngeal arch ,  also called first  gill or branchial arch .
anatomical cluster made up of skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the seventh pharyngeal arch ,  also called fifth  gill or branchial arch .
anatomical cluster made up of skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the sixth pharyngeal arch ,  also called fourth gill or branchial arch .
anatomical cluster made up of skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the fourth pharyngeal arch ,  also called second  gill or branchial arch .
anatomical cluster made up of skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the fifth pharyngeal arch ,  also called third gill or branchial arch .
ossification that develops in the small hypobranchial cartilages that lie between the medial tips of the ceratobranchials and copula 1 .
tiny hypobranchial4 cartilages appear at anteromedial tips of ceratobranchial 4 ;  these are not obviously present in mature specimens ,  due either to resorption or fusion to the cartilaginous anterior tip of ceratobranchial .
ossifications  that develops in the small hypobranchial cartilages that lie between the medial tips of the ceratobranchials and copula 1 .
ossification that develop in the small hypobranchial cartilages that lie between the medial tips of the ceratobranchials and copula 1 .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 1 cartilage or bone and medially with the cartilage between the basibranchials .
multi - tissue structure that consists of pigmented stroma and is connected to a sphincter muscle and a dilator muscle which open and close the pupil located in the center of the iris .
ceratobranchial bone that is the most posterior ,  bilaterally paired ventral pharyngeal arch bone .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 4 cartilage or bone and medially with copula 2 .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 3 cartilage or bone and medially with the cartilage between the basibranchials .
ceratobranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 2 cartilage or bone and medially with the cartilage between the basibranchials .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 1 cartilage or bone .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and appears as a separate center of chondrification  ( 6 .2 mm )  posterior to the lateral tip of epibranchial 4 and immediately anterior to the upper end of ceratobranchial 5 .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 4 cartilage or bone .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 2 cartilage or bone .
epibranchial bone that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 3 cartilage or bone .
the exocrine pancreas is a diffuse organ composed of a branching network of ducts and associated acinar glands that manufacture the proteolytic enzymes and bicarbonate required for digestion .
pharyngobranchial 2  ( misidentified as pharyngobranchial 1 in cubbage & mabee ,  1993 and mayden 1989 )  is present and separate from pharyngobranchial 3 .
pharyngobranchial cartilage which forms in close proximity to or fused with pharyngobranchial 3 ;  may not be distinguishable as a separate element in the adult .
pharyngobranchial bone of the fifth pharyngeal arch that lies approximately posteromedial to epibranchial 2 and medial to epibranchial 3 .
portion of tissue that is the lateral part of the floor plate .
portion of tissue that is the medial part of the floor plate and is located adjacent to the notochord .
floor plate that is part of the rhombomeres .
the zebrafish endocrine pancreas is an compound organ component composed of small groups of islet cells that are distributed throughout the exocrine pancreas .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
stage i follicles  ( less than 140 microns )  contain a stage 1 oocyte and are in the primary growth stage .
stage iv follicles  ( 690 - 730 microns )  contain a stage 4 oocyte and are considered mature .
stage ii follicles  ( 140 - 340 microns )  contain a stage 2 oocyte .
stage iii follicles  ( 340 - 690 microns )  contain a stage 3 oocyte .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the head .
is a duct part of the testis that carries sperm and fluid to the cloaca .
fin undergoing the process of regeneration .
a regenerating tissue composed of a proliferative mass of undifferentiated progenitor cells from which new differentiated structures arise .
the dorsal portion of the first pharyngeal arch ,  comprising the upper jaw .
the ventral portion of the first pharyngeal arch ,  comprising the lower jaw .
the coronomeckelian is a membrane bone that ossifies on meckel's cartilage where the tendon from the adductor mandibulae a3 inserts  ( 6 .1mm )  .
the anterior compartment of the swim bladder is thought to have acoustic resonance properties that play a key role in audition .
the posterior compartment of the swim bladder plays a key role in buoyancy control .
branchiostegal ray that is the most anterior ray which ossifies last  ( 5 .5 mm nl )  .
branchiostegal ray that is the most posterior ray which ossifies first  ( 3 .4 mm nl )  .
branchiostegal ray 2 is between rays 1 and 3 and ossifies second .
the anterior lobe of the hypophysis  ( pituitary gland )  .
anatomical space that is located in the center of the iris and allows light to impinge on the retina .
groove that is in the ventral optic cup and through which blood vessels pass to the enclosed mesenchyme .
blood vessels that connect the dorsal aorta or the posterior cardinal vein and the dorsal longitudinal anastomotic vessel .
post - vent vasculature which forms an interconnecting network of venous tubes .
renal duct that collects filtrate from the renal corpuscle and transports it to the collecting duct .
the multi - tissue structure where the glomerular basement membrane supported by mesonephric podocytes ,  filters blood from the glomerular capillaries .
proliferative region at the periphery of the retina where retinal stem cells are located .
anterior part of the embryonic alimentary canal formed as an invagination of the ectoderm ;  the future mouth .
the sensory ganglion of the facial nerve .
the stalk emanates from the diencephalic roof at a left - of - medial position .
neurogenic placodes that generate neurons of the distal facial ,  glossopharyngeal and vagal ganglia ,  which convey sensation from the viscera ,  including pharyngeal endoderm structures ,  to the cns .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to the facial ganglia .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglia .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to vagal ganglion 1 .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to vagal ganglion 2 .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to vagal ganglion 3 .
epibranchial placode that gives rise to vagal ganglion 4 .
one of a series of paired bony or cartilaginous arches that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
muscle system of the pharyngeal region .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
neurogenic placodes are transient ectodermal thickenings that form at the border of the neural plate and epidermis and give rise to sensory neurons of the cranial ganglia .
lateral neurogenic placodes positioned dorsal of the epibranchial placodes .
the posterior lateral line ganglion develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate the posterior lateral line system .
the part of the heart connecting the atrium to the cardiac ventricle .
dorsolateral placode that gives rise to the anterior lateral line .
swellings of tissue present between the endocardial and myocardial cell layers that will give rise to the interstitial cells of the cardiac valves .
the extracellular matrix between the myocardium and the endocardium .
layer that lines the lumen of the heart .
a tract originating in the epiphysis and fasciculating with the tract of the postoptic commissure dorsal to the ventral flexure .
the terminal region of the mid intestine is comprised of specialized enterocytes that appear to play a role in mucosal immunity .
musculature of the gut .
paired ,  anteromedially directed processes from the neural arches ,  ligamentously joined to the postzygapophyses of the preceding vertebra .
epithelium which borders the anterior and equitorial region of the lens .
trunk musculature that is located in ventral wall of abdomen .
a metameric segment of the central nervous system .
the layer within the retina where the bipolar cells synapse with the dendrites of the ganglion cells .
the layer within the retina where the bipolar cells synapse with the photoreceptor cells .
layer that separates the inner segment portions of the photo receptors from their cell nucleus .
presumptive structure fated to become enteric nervous system .
supradorsals are small paired nodules of cartilage positioned at the distal ends of neural arches and the proximal end of neural spines  ( arratia et al . ,  2001 )  .
neural spines are extensions of neural arches dorsal to the neural canal in the median skeletogenous septum .
folded tube that has parts intestinal bulb ,  mid intestine and posterior intestine .
telencephalic nucleus from which the axons of the anterior commissure originate .
the nucleus containing the cell bodies of neurons whose axons form the postoptic commissure .
a zone of delayed differentiation at the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the intervening zone .
boundary between the telencephalon and diencephalon .
the border between the dorsal and ventral thalamus .
an bilobed multi - tissue structure lateral to the notochord composed of an epithelium consisting of steroid producing cells interposed with chromaffin cells .
multi - tissue structure located in the kidney that develops into the interrenal gland .
layer of the optic tectum that is ventral to the stratum opticum and dorsal to the stratum griseum centrale ,  contains three sublaminae .
dorsalmost layer of the tectal neuropile that  does not receive direct retinal inputs ,  receives axonal projections from the torus longitudinalis .
portion of tissue that is the most superficial layer of the tectal neuropil closest to the eye target of the retinal axons .
has hypothalamic inputs .
the vascularized fibrous sheath that surrounds the central nervous system .
the terminal nerve ,  located anterior to cranial nerve i ,  is comprised of a group of cells with somata adjacent to the olfactory bulb and processes that extend anteriorly to the olfactory epithelium and posteriorly to the telencephalon .
portion of tissue that is ventrolateral to the roof plate and part of the midbrain .
roof plate that is part of the diencephalic region .
an unpaired left - sided accessory organ which plays a role in establishing lateral brain left right asymmetry .
basiventrals are bilaterally paired cartilages lateral to the notochord which are replaced by ossified parapophyses or hemal arches .
parapophyses are lateral or ventrolateral projections of vertebrae to which ribs are attached in danio rerio .
the neural complex is the collective term for the ossified supraneurals  ( sn 2 and sn 3 )  and their membrane bone extensions above the first four vertebrae  ( hoffmann and britz ,  2006 )  .
hemal spines are extensions of hemal arches in the ventral skeletogenous septum of the caudal region .
tract that extends from the postoptic commissure through a curved trajectory in the diencephalon into the ventral midbrain .
the boundary between the diencephalon and the mesencephalon .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the forebrain midbrain boundary .
pancreatic bud that develops from a ridge on the ventral side of the intestinal bulb primordium .
pancreatic bud that forms dorsal and adjacent to the developing intestine .
system responsible for the production and movement of pancreatic hormones and enzymes .
duct that collects and carries secretions of the exocrine pancreas .
cells that initially are located adjacent to the spinal cord and notochord that migrate from their initial medial position radially through the myotome to the lateral surface of the somites .
myocardium of the heart atrium .
a heart valve located between the ventricle and bulbus arteriosus .
presumptive structure at the animal poll of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm via the epiblast .
presumptive structure fated to become mesoderm .
region of the hypoblast that is located along the rostral - caudal axis of the embryo .
hypohyals are the most anterior of the bilaterally paired ventral hyoid arch elements .
epibranchials 1 - 3 in adults are compound elements formed by the fusion of epibranchial cartilages and the so - called uncinate processes .
surface structure that develops into a paired fin .
fin bud that develops into the pelvic fin .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the pelvic fin bud .
mesoderm part of pelvic fin bud .
skeleton that supports the pelvic fin .
epithelium of the regenerating fin that is formed as part of the healing process .
embryonic structure that develops from the pancreas primordium and develops into the pancreas .
the anterior lateral line ganglia develops from cranial ectodermal placodes and contain sensory neurons that innervate the anterior lateral line system .
lateral projections from the first centrum in cyprinids ,  absent in catostomids ,  and absent in characiphysans  ( fink and fink ,  1996 )  .
lateral projection from the second centrum ,  absent in siluriformes  ( fink and fink ,  1996 )  .
neural arch 3 is expanded and fused to supraneural 3 as part of a neural complex roofing and protecting the neural canal .
neural arch 4 is expanded and fused to supraneural 3 as part of the neural complex .
the parapophysis  +  rib ,  fused to the centrum ,  extends laterally then angles anteroventrally .
posterior to the weberian apparatus ,  otophysan supraneurals form as median ,  unpaired ,  rod -  or platelike elements ,  as in other actinopterygians .
cartilage that is the dorsal component of the first pharyngeal arch .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is bilaterally paired and the largest cartilaginous component of the ventral hyoid arch .
dermal bone that first appears as paired ossifications in the membrane  ( dermis )  dorsolateral to the ethmoid cartilage and anteriolateral to the lateral ethmoids ,  later having the appearance of one butterfly - shaped element .
small rounded to egg - shaped cartilage bone that sits in an anteriolateral depression on the prevomer .
bilaterally paired neurocranium cartilage which is initially plate - like and formed from the anterior fusion between the bilaterally paired trabecula cranii .
small median unpaired dermal sesamoid bone in the premaxillary - ethmoid ligament between the mesethmoid and the premaxilla that enhances the protractability of the upper jaw .
plate like dermal bone ,  variable in size ,  though usually one of the smallest in the series .
plate like dermal bone ,  variable in size ,  but usually largest in the series .
plate like dermal bone .usually fused with infraorbital 3 .
anatomical cluster that is a anteriolateral part of the cranium and structurally supports the eye .
a pair of small dish - shaped bones that cap the anterior and posterior margin of the eyeball .
cartilage bone that contacts the pterotic anteriorly ,  the supraoccipital and parietal dorsally ,  and the exoccipital ventrally .
anatomical cluster that is located in the posterior region of the cranium and forms the margin of the foramen magnum and occipital condyle .
second radial of the pelvic fin .
third radial of the pelvic fin .
first radial of the pelvic fin .
lepidotrichium which is part of the dorsal fin .
a range of seven to nine rod - like internal median skeletal support structures of the dorsal fin ,  comprised of both bone and cartilage and found between vertebrae 11 and 18 .
a range of twelve to fourteen rod - like internal median skeletal support structures of the anal fin ,  comprised of both bone and cartilage and found between vertebrae 14 and 21 .
lepidotrichium which is part of the anal fin .
bilaterally paired large cartilage that articulates with the chondrocranium dorsally ,  the opercle posteriorly ,  and the palatoquadrate cartilage anteriorly .
rod - shaped paired cartilages on either side of the notochord .
anatomical cluster that is part of the cranium and composed of cartilage and cartilage replacement bones .
nares that form at 40 - 44dpf that open to the posterior region of the olfactory pit allowing water to exit the pit .
nares that form at 40 - 44dpf that open to the anterior region of the olfactory pit allowing water to enter the pit .
the highly folded olfactory epithelium .
ventral hindbrain nuclei just caudal to the interpeduncular nucleus .
a duct connecting the esophagus to the posterior chamber of the swim bladder .
sclerotic bone that is located anterior to the eye .
sclerotic bone that is located posterior to the eye .
floor plate that is part of the neural tube .
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
roof plate that is part of the neural tube .
the constriction between the anterior and posterior chambers of the swim bladder .
anatomical space ,  part of the trunk that contains the pericardial and pleuroperitoneal cavities .
anatomical group that has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
the interface between the dorsal neuroepithelium and the roof plate of the fourth ventricle .
posterior portion of the rhombic lip contained within rhombomeres 2 - 8 .
anterior - most region of dorsal hindbrain within rhombomere 1 ,  adjacent the midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
a tuft of capillaries that project into the ventricles of the brain and secretes cerebral spinal fluid .
choroid plexus that is part of the third ventricle .
choroid plexus that is part of the tectal ventricle .
choroid plexus that is part of the fourth ventricle .
choroid plexus that is part of the telencephalic ventricle .
glands that produce calcitonin .in adult fish the glands lie as two groups of follicles at the transverse septum close to the sinus venosus .
mesenchyme that is part of the pelvic fin .
apical ectodermal ridge that is part of the pelvic fin .
a small group of mesodermal cells located at the posterior margin of the developing fin bud .
a small group of mesodermal cells located at the posterior margin of the developing fin bud .
embryonic region that develops into the pectoral fin bud .
portion of tissue in the pelvic region that develops into the pelvic fin bud .
the cartilage from which both the scapula and coracoid develop .
a plate - like chondrogenic condensation within the pectoral fin ,  which subdivides into individual radials by decomposition of extracellular matrix in the inter - radial mesenchyme  ( grandel and schulte - merker ,  1998 )  .
cartilage which is part of the axial skeleton .
cartilage which is part of the cranium .
cartilage which is part of the pelvic fin .
cartilage that is part of the chondrocranium .
anatomical surface separating somites .
surface structure composed of an array of melanophores arranged in a stripe .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell bodies reside .
layer of the retina composed of the inner segments of the photoreceptor cells .
layer of the retina composed of the outer segments of the photoreceptor cells .
the anterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  situated between the eye and the ear ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the anterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
the lateral line consists of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  located superficially on the skin or just under the skin in fluid - filled canals on the head and body of all fishes and most amphibians .
the anterior lateral line consists of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  located superficially on the skin or just under the skin in fluid - filled canals on the head of all fishes and most amphibians .
the posterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  situated behind the ear ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the posterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
neuromast that is part of the anterior lateral line .
cells  ( completely cleaved )  ,  located underneath the superficial blastomeres and internal to the marginal blastomeres .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
cranial nerves that carry afferent and efferent fibers for the lateral line system .
lateral line nerve that originates within the dorsal anterior lateral line ganglion and innervates the otic ,  supraorbital ,  and infraorbital neuromasts .
lateral line nerve that originates within the ventral anterior lateral line ganglion and innervates the mandibular and opercular neuromasts .
nerve fibers originating from the middle lateral line ganglion .
the middle lateral line ganglion develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate the middle lateral line .
cells  ( completely cleaved )  ,  located at the surface of the blastodisc ,  above the deep blastomeres .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
compound organ that does not contain macroscopic anatomical spaces .
multi - tissue structure that is not part of a compound organ .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one or more layers .
epithelium that consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells .
epithelium that consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
simple columnar epithelium that lines the esophagus .
bilaterally paired cartilage encasing the semicircular canals of the inner ear .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
bilaterally paired medial bar of cartilage formed at midorbit through medial chondrification from triangles of cartilage that later form the junction of the taeniae marginales anterior ,  taeniae marginales posterior and the epiphyseal bar .
cranial cartilage which is bilaterally paired and develops as a dorsal plate - like projection of the anteriolateral ethmoid plate ,  which are oriented perpendicular to the ethmoid plate .
cranial cartilage which is a paired anterodorsal projection of the posterior end of the parachordal cartilage .
cartilage bar  ( bilaterally paired )  that grows anteroventrally from the epiphyseal bar to join the anteriolateral edge of the ethmoid plate .
unpaired thin dorsal sheet of cartilage that partially covers the posterior chondrocranium .
paired thin medially aligned bar of cartilage that extends from the anterior end of the chondrocranium to just anterior to the anterior end of the notochord .
cartilage formed via medial fusion between bilaterally paired trabecula cranii .
bilaterally paired thin continuous band of cartilage that sagitally encircles the eye .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is median and is the anterior - most cartilage of the ventral hyoid arch .
the interhyal is a small rod - like element that connects the ventral and dorsal parts of the hyoid arch .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
epithelial sheet on the external surface of the somite that gives rise to trunk ,  muscle and dermis .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
cartilage bar  ( bilaterally paired )  that is first visible as an anterior extension of the auditory capsule .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that forms the largest skeletal element of the ventral branchial arches .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 2 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 3 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with epibranchial 4 cartilage or bone .
ceratobranchial cartilage that forms between hypobranchial 1 and epibranchial 1 .
ceratobranchial cartilage that is the most posterior ,  bilaterally paired ventral pharyngeal arch cartilage .
small rod - like cartilage that forms between the median copulae and the ceratobranchial cartilages .
small cartilage that forms at the anteromedial tip of ceratobranchial 4 ;  these are not obviously present in mature specimens ,  due either to resorption or fusion to the cartilaginous anterior tip of ceratobranchial 4 .
small cartilage that forms at the anteromedial tip of ceratobranchial 1 ,  lateral to copula 1 .
small cartilage that forms at the anteromedial tip of ceratobranchial 2 ,  lateral to copula 1 .
small cartilage that forms at the anteromedial tip of ceratobranchial 3 ,  lateral to copula 1 .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is bilaterally paired small rod - like cartilage which articulates laterally with ceratobranchial cartilage or bone .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 1 cartilage or bone and the medial end of pharyngobranchial 1 .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 3 cartilage or bone and the medial end of pharyngobranchial 3 .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 2 cartilage or bone and the medial end of pharyngobranchial 2 .
epibranchial cartilage that is bilaterally paired and articulates laterally with ceratobranchial 4 cartilage or bone and the medial end of pharyngobranchial 4 .
paired cartilages that project medially from the medial tips of epibranchials .
paired elongate cartilages that lie posteromedial to epibranchial 2 and medial to epibranchial 3 .
paired disc - like cartilage lying medial to and between the medial tips of epibranchials 1 and 2 .
cartilage that develops initially on the medial side of the coraco - scapular cartilage .
small cartilage that forms at the posterior edge of the basipterygium .
bilaterally paired small ,  rodlike cartilages on the ventral surface of the abdomen  ( present at 7 .9 mm )  .
small cartilage that forms at the posterior and medial edge of the basipterygium .
small cartilage with a long posterior process and a shorter lateral one that forms at the posterior edge of the basipterygium ,  between radial cartilages 1 and 2 .
small cartilage that forms at the posterior and lateral edge of the basipterygium .
cartilage which is part of one of the paired fins .
lepidotrichium which is part of the caudal fin .
lepidotrichium which is part of the pectoral fin ,  forming the pectoral fin skeleton and articulating with the pectoral radials .
lepidotrichium which is part of the pelvic fin .
dermal bone that is rod - like ,  formed and usually contained in a fin membrane ,  and jointed to or adjacent to distal radials .
cranial ganglion which develops from an epibranchial placode .
trunk ganglion which is part of a bilaterally paired set of sympathetic ganglia located anterior and lateral to the spinal cord .
paired highly vascularized structures of the pronephros which are fused at the midline .
bilaterally paired tubes connecting the pronephric glomeruli to the pronephric ducts .
ventral most hypural of the caudal fin .
hypural of the caudal fin dorsal to hypural 1 .
hypural dorsal to hypural 2 that supports the upper lobe of the caudal fin .
hypural dorsal to hypural 3 that supports the upper lobe of the caudal fin .
dorsal - most hypural ,  that supports the upper lobe of the caudal fin .
oocyte part of stage ii ovarian follicle .
oocyte part of stage iii ovarian follicle .
oocyte part of stage i ovarian follicle .
oocyte part of stage iv ovarian follicle .
oocyte part of stage v ovarian follicle .
a female gamete where meiosis has progressed to metaphase ii and is able to participate in fertilization .
a follicle that has undergone ovulation and no longer contains an oocyte .
trunk ganglion which is bilaterally paired and located at the anterior end of the sympathetic ganglion chain .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
nervous system that innervates smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands .
autonomic nervous system where the cell bodies lie in the brain and sacral region of the spinal cord .
autonomic nervous system that originates beginning at the thoracic and lumbar areas of the spinal cord .
process of the premaxilla that extends posteriorly and overlays the mesethmoid .
in cypriniforms the anterior portion of the palatine has a dorsomedial process which abuts against the mesethmoid .
ural vertebra that is the second vertebra posterior to preural centrum 1 .
anatomical cluster that is the regional skeletal system surrounding the brain .
a vertebral centrum that is located immediately posterior to ural centrum 1 .
precaudal vertebra that is not a weberian vertebra .
vertebra which is the fused centra of preural 1 and ural 1 .
caudal fin lepidotrichium that is located anterior to the principal caudal fin rays .
caudal fin lepidotrichium that is adjacent to a branched ray .
radial which develops from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc ,  supports the pectoral lepidotrichia or fin rays and connects the lepidotrichia with the primary pectoral girdle .
pectoral fin radial which develops from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc ,  supports a few pectoral lepidotrichia or fin rays and connects the lepidotrichia and distal radials with the primary pectoral girdle  ( scapula and coracoid )  .
pectoral fin radial ,  develops from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc ,  and is located at the proximal region of a lepidotrichium ,  between its hemitrichia .
the propterygium is the lateralmost or anteriormost basal cartilage that originates from the pectoral fin endoskeletal disc .
intramembranous bone that forms superficially in the organism .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
bone that is bilaterally paired endochondral bone with extensions of membrane bone forming part of a dorsolateral protective wall around the neural canal between the back of the skull and the beginning of the neural arch series .
an endochondral bone that is the ventral ,  posteriorly - oriented bony extension of the quadrate .
a dermal bone that is the lower ,  horizontal portion of the preopercle bone .
a dermal bone that is the upper ,  vertical portion of the preopercle bone .
anatomical cluster which consists of two or more adjacent bones or cartilages ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue .
endochondral bone which is the posteroventral region of the exoccipital bone .
endochondral bone which is the posterodorsal region of the basioccipital bone .
neural spine that is located on the fourth vertebra .
anterior branch of the intercalarium .
bony process that develops as a dorsally  projecting cartilaginous extension from the basidorsal .
portion of the intercalarium that  ossifies from the cartilage condensation and articulates with a groove in centrum 2 .
surface structure that is the dorsal portion of the caudal fin .
surface structure that is the ventral portion of the caudal fin .
the second pharyngeal arch ,  also known as the hyoid arch ,  forms jaw support structures .
the first pharyngeal arch ,  also known as the mandibular arch ,  forms the jaw .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
endocardium that is part of the atrioventricular canal .
portion of organism substance composed of calcium carbonate located in the otolith organ and positioned over a sensory macula ;  two form in each vesicle during the late segmentation period .
fiber layer adjacent the retinal ganglion cell layer which is comprised of their axons as they traverse to the optic nerve .
most anterior portion of the pronephric duct  ( or tubule as described by wingert et al ,  2007 )  .
portion of the pronephric duct  ( or tubule as described by wingert et al ,  2007 )  which is just posterior to the proximal convoluted tubule .
portion of the pronephric duct  ( or tubule as described by wingert et al ,  2007 )  which is just posterior to the proximal straight tubule .
most posterior portion of the pronephric duct  ( or tubule as described by wingert et al ,  2007 )  which ends at the cloacal chamber at the pronephric duct opening .
portion of the pronephric duct  ( or tubule as described by wingert et al ,  2007 )  which is just posterior to the distal early tubule .
portion of cranial nerve ii where large fascicles of axons from the optic fiber layer come together prior to leaving the eye .
portion of organism substance that is a clear fluid that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain .
anatomical cluster that consists of a bulla formed by the exoccipital and basioccipital bones ,  and surrounds the lagena .
bone that forms as a replacement of another structural tissue .
replacement bone that forms within the connective tissue surrounding the notochord .
replacement bone that forms within the connective tissue surrounding cartilage .
perichordal bone that surrounds the anterior tip of the notochord .
portion of tissue that consists of mesodermally derived cells and intercellular matrix comprised of protein fibers and carbohydrates ,  which supports ,  ensheathes and binds together other tissues .
portion of connective tissue which surrounds the notochord .
portion of connective tissue which surrounds cartilage .
bone that forms directly within mesenchyme ,  and does not replace other tissues .
intramembranous bone that forms deep in the organism .
portion of connective tissue that is an extension of a bone .
simple squamous epithelium which lines blood and lymphatic vessels and the heart .
ventral bend in the brain occurring caudal to the adenohypophyseal placode .
neural arch on the urostyle .
anatomical cluster consisting of adjacent teeth constituting a row .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
cartilage of the lower jaw that give rise to a portion of the anguloarticular compound bone .
dermal bone that is located posterior to the dentary and lateral to the articular and retroarticular bones of the lower jaw .
internal skeletal supports of the anal fin .
internal skeletal supports of the dorsal fin .
neural crest that migrates into the pharyngeal arches and heart ,  forming connective tissue that separates the vessels of the heart .
anatomical cluster that is the series of dermal bones associated with the infraorbital sensory canal located under and posterior to the eye .
head muscle that originates on the anterior region of the cleithrum and inserts on the urohyal .
muscle which is part of the head .
muscle which is paired and runs anterio - posteriorly along the heart and is covered with epicardium .
anatomical space which is located beneath the operculum and external to the gills .
anatomical space in which the heart is located and is surrounded by the pericardium .
anatomical space which contains the abdominal visceral and swim bladder .
cns tract / commissure which extends between the telencephalon and diencephalon and lies along the dorsal edge of the optic stalk .
nucleus located within the hindbrain .
brain nucleus part of the diencephalon .
diencephalic nucleus which is located in the caudal tuberculum .
the portion of tissue that is the initial segment of one of the cranial nerves leaving the central nervous system .
nucleus located in the midbrain .
telencephalic nucleus which is in contact with the median ependymal lining of the ventricle and consists of the dorsal ,  ventral ,  supracommissural and postcommissural nuclei of the ventral telencephalon .
telencephalic nucleus which has migrated away from the ependyma and consists of the central ,  lateral nuclei and the dorsal and ventral entopeduncular nuclei .
peripheral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon which is located immediately lateral to the dorsal nucleus of the ventral telencephalon .
diencephalic nucleus which is located between the dorsal hypothalamus and the caudal tuberal nucleus and does not contain tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells .
portion of tissue that is the part of the notochord located in the caudal fin .
epithelium that is the primary epithelium of the developing inner ear and has anterior and posterior maculae as its parts .
portion of tissue that grows in from the dorsolateral wall of the otic vesicle ,  forming a dorsolateral partition between the developing anterior and posterior semicircular canals .
podocyte that is part of the pronephros .
podocyte that is part of the kidney  ( mesonephros )  .
portion of connective tissue that is a fibrous band connecting bones or cartilages or supporting an organ .
ligament that is in the eye and is located at the angle between the cornea and the iris .
floor plate that is part of the midbrain .
multi - tissue structure that consists of the structures that develop into the retina and lens .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
diencephalic nucleus that is part of the preoptic area .
multi - tissue comprised of neurons ,  dendrites ,  axon terminals ,  glial cells ,  and capillaries .
multi - tissue structure comprised largely of myelinated axons .
portion of tissue comprised of four to six layers of nonkeratinized ,  stratified squamous cells and represents approximately 60% of the thickness of the cornea .
acellular anatomical structure that is the zone of condensed collagen fibers underneath the basement membrane of the corneal epithelium that overlays the corneal stroma layer .
portion of tissue that is located basal to bowman's layer and distal to descemet's membrane and is comprised largely of connective tissue .
acellular anatomical structure composed of collagen ,  descemet's membrane is secreted as a basement membrane of the corneal endothelium .
epithelium that is the innermost layer of the cornea and is comprised of a monolayer of polygonal cells .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
anatomical structure that delineates a furrow or depression in an organ or tissue .
granule cell that is part of the cerebellum .
cns white matter that crosses the midline within the hindbrain .
replacement bone that forms within or surrounding a cartilaginous skeletal element .
granule cell that is part of the olfactory bulb .
motor nucleus of vagal nerve that is located within the dorsolateral portion of rhombomere 8 .
motor nucleus of vagal nerve that is located within the medial portion of rhombomere 8 .
hindbrain nucleus which consists of cell bodies whose axons exit the hindbrain via cranial nerve viii and innervate hair cells of the lateral line and inner ear .
octaval nerve motor nucleus that is initially located within rhombomere 6 .
octaval nerve motor nucleus that is initially located within rhombomere 7 .
multi - tissue structure that is the external layer of the swim bladder that is covered by the peritoneum ,  and made of elastic fibres and ichthyocol  ( short needles of collagen )  .
multi - tissue structure that is the internal layer of the swim bladder and is comprised of thin endoderm and a smooth muscle layer called the muscularis mucosa with longitudinal and circular fibres with some collagen .
proliferative region that is part of the developing fin fold or fin .
portion of tissue that is a thickening and reshaping of the epidermal basal stratum cells beneath which fibroblasts accumulate to form the scale primordium .
a portion of tissue that gives rise to the scale .
duct that is part of the inner ear and connects to the semicircular canals ending in the endolymphatic sac .
portion of tissue that is part of the corpus cerebelli and contains purkinje cells .
multi - tissue structure that has as its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain .
cns white matter that is part of the cerebellum .
portion of tissue that is part of the valvula cerebelli and contains purkinje cells .
portion of tissue that consists of afferent axons from the spinal cord ,  sensory medullary nuclei ,  reticular nuclei and dorsal tegmental nuclei into the corpus cerebelli and valvula cerebelli ,  where they synapse within the granule cell layer .
portion of tissue that consists of afferent axons from the inferior olive and synapsing with purkinje cells within the molecular layer of the valvula cerebelli and corpus cerebelli .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the bulbus arteriosus .
portion of tissue that consists of axons of cerebellar granule cells that synapse onto purkinje cell dendrites .
portion of presumptive mesoderm fated to become ventral mesoderm .
portion of tissue within the otic vesicle that consists of a thin layer of otic epithelium covering a finger - shaped core of acellular matrix .
otic vesicle protrusion that is initially ventrally located and then fuses with the lateral protrusion ,  giving rise to the pillar of the lateral semicircular canal .
portion of tissue around which the semicircular canals flow .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the primitive heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the primitive heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the sinus venosus .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the atrioventricular canal .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the endocardium .
a glial cell that develops from a schwann cell precursor .
artery that extends horizontally across the brain midline which is fed by the caudal division of the internal carotid artery .
an artery that connects caudal division of the internal carotid artery and the basal communicating artery to the basilar artery .
artery that runs along the ventral keel of the hindbrain .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the pharyngeal region .
artery that is part of the pharyngeal arches .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 1 .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 2 .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 3 .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 4 .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 5 .
the mesencephalic veins  ( msv )  enter the mid cerebral veins  ( mcev )  at the dorsal midline .
a vascular loop attached to the efferent part of the mandibular arch that forms at 3 .5 dpf .
artery that enters the gill filament .
the branch of the afferent branchial artery that continues posterodorsally .
the anteroventral proceeding branch of the afferent branchial artery .
arterioles which take blood from the afferent filamental arteries to the gill lamella .
aortic arch that is part of pharyngeal arch 6 .
the vessel between the anterior cerebral vein and the mid cerebral vein .
artery that exits the gill filament .
arterioles which take blood from the gill lamella to the efferent  filamental arteries .
artery that irrigates the forebrain and midbrain .
extend upward from the pcs ,  branch to provide an arterial feed to the hindbrain ,  then drain back down into the phbc .
the opercular artery arises from the hyoid stump on the first aortic arch ,  then follows the lateral margin of the operculum  ( gill covering )  ventrally to reconnect into the proximal part of the first aortic arch .
system responsible for generating hematopoietic cells .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around trunk .
paired trunk vessels that run medially along the dorsal - most portion of the trunk and post - vent region .
main route for venous drainage of the anterior and mid cerebral veins as well as portions of the primordial hindbrain channel .
vein that drains the dorsal longitudinal vessel and the caudal portions of the venous capillary network of the medulla oblongata .
region where blood progenitor markers are expressed .
hematopoietic tissue derived from the cephalic mesoderm .
vein that branches off the nasal ciliary artery .
vessel that connects to the primitive hindbrain channel and the basilar artery at the caudal end of the medulla oblongata .
vein that connects to the hyaloid vein that drains the eye .
is an pair of arteries that form from the intersegmental vessels at the level of the base of the spinal cord ,  adjacent to the myotome .
vessels run longitudinally along the horizontal myoseptum .
vein that drains the vascular plexus of the midgut and hindgut .
a continuation of the anterior mesenteric artery ,  which branches out from the dorsal aorta  just caudal to the pronephric glomus .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the post - vent region .
an ectopic melanophore accumulation analogous to a nevi  ( mole )  in humans .
the artery that carries blood to the eye .
artery that is internal to the eye .
vessels that are associated with the posterior region of the lens .
vein internal to the eye .
vessel that branches from cranial division of the internal carotid artery ,  extending laterally around the rostral end of the head .
after the primitive prosencephalic artery forms it becomes disconnected from the  cranial division of the internal carotid artery and instead it connects to the anterior mesencephalic central artery and the communicating vessels of the palatocerebral artery .
the pla branches ventrally from the crdi .
connect the palatocerebral artery with the prosencephalic artery .
arteries that irrigate rostral regions of the midbrain .
artery that branches off the cranial division of the internal carotid artery .
vessel that circles the inner rim of the optic capsule .
drains the pla loop proceeds straight caudally along the cranial midline just above the pharynx ,  just below the diencephalon .
vein that drains the median palatocerebral vein into the optic vein .
external layer of the heart .
the external layer of the ventricle bounding the ventricular myocardium .
the layer of the myocardium composed of projections of contractile myocytes .
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
the outer layer the ventricular myocardium ,  muscle  fibers are arranged in a compact form and involved the entire ventricle .
anatomical system located in the heart that initiates and propagates heart contraction .
the atrioventricular valve has four distinct leaflets oriented anterior ,  posterior ,  left ,  and right of the atrioventricular orifice .
multi - tissue structure composed of leaflets that separate parts of the heart ,  preventing blood backflow .
the portion of tissue that is the outer layer of the bulbus arteriosus .
composed of 7 - 10 layers of helically arranged smooth muscle cells surrounded by a fine network of collagen ,  reticular ,  and elastic fibrils .
composed of subendothelium with longitudinally oriented collagen ,  reticular fibrils ,  elastic fibers ,  and smooth muscle cells bound by a thin endothelial layer .
portion of tissue containing  3 and 30 cells  in dorsal right quadrant of atrium that initiate heart beat .
the portion of tissue in the atrioventricular canal that slows impulse propagation between the atrium and cardiac ventricle .
a portion of endocardial tissue that is part of the atrioventricular ring .
a ring of conduction tissue that forms in the atrioventricular canal .
cardiac conduction system ,  characterized by slow impulse propagation and prolonged refractory periods .
portion of the cardiac conduction system ,  with rapid impulse propagation .
is a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels  by the process of tubulogenesis .
projects rostrally and dorsally from the amcta to irrigate the midportion of the midbrain .
project dorsally from bca to irrigate the caudal part of midbrain .
an artery deep in the trunk that connects the dorsal aorta to the supraintestinal artery .
artery that originates as rostral extensions of the dorsal aorta and travels through the hypophyseal fossa into the cranium .
branch of the nasal ciliary artery  ( nca )  that splits off of the nca near the lens and forms the dorsal ciliary vein .
these arteries branch dorsally from both sides of the posterior communicating artery looping up to join with the opposite mta as well as with both middle cerebral veins at the dorsal midline of the head .
the nasal arteries start at the internal carotid artery and travel rostrally ,  passing along the right and left walls of the nasal sac at the most rostral end of the head .
the pectoral  ( subclavian )  arteries originate from the dorsal aorta and takes the blood outward into the fin from the paired portion of the dorsal aorta posterior to the last aortic arch  < a href='http: /  / zfin .org / zf_info / zfbook / stages / hatch .html' >  kimmel et al .
vein from the pectoral fin that drains into the acv just cranial to the acv - ccv junction .
branch ventrally from the dorsal aorta and anastomose longitudinally along the dorsal wall of the hindgut ,  forming the caudal part of the supraintestinal artery .
an elaborate set of vessels that branch off caudally from the anterior mesenteric artery just after the dorsal aorta .
vein that collects blood from the small intestine ,  pancreas and spleen and routes it through the liver .
wide thin - walled blood vessels in the liver .
paired veins that sprout from the dorsal midline junction and dive ventrally .
vein that  is fed by the nasal artery .
is an ocular vasculature that develops adjacent to the pigment epithelium of the eye .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the fin .
vasculature of the pectoral fin .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the caudal fin .
artery that is positioned in the intraray mesenchyme between the hemirays of the lepidotrichia .
vein that flanks and is just lateral to the fin ray ,  in the interray mesenchyme .
vessels that travel between artery and veins or vein and vein in a single ray .
vessels that travel between veins in adjacent rays .
stripe of tissue fated to become the median fin fold .
stripe of tissue on the ventral side of the fish ,   fated to become the ventral region of the median fin fold .
stripe of tissue on the dorsal side of the fish ,  fated to become the dorsal region of the median fin fold .
a network of blunt ended vessels lacking direct connection to the blood vascular system .
lymph vessel that connects the lateral facial lymph vessel to the thoracic duct near the common cardinal vein .
the thoracic duct is the first perfused lymphatic ,  located between the dorsal aorta and posterior cardinal vein .
tract that originates in the telencephalon lies medial to the lateral forebrain bundle and extends into the diencephalon approaching the posterior tuberal nucleus .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva .
neuromast that is part of the dorsal lateral line .
the middle lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the middle lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
primordium that forms the first neuromasts of the posterior lateral line .
second lateral line primordium .these primordia move at 0 .2 somites / hour and deposit neuromasts that are polarized in a dorso - ventral direction .
a migrating group of cells originating from an anterior lateral line placode .
a migrating group of cells originating from the middle lateral line placode .
a surface structure that will eventually grow to form a barbel .
the serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity .
dorsolateral placode that gives rise to the middle lateral line .
dorsal region of the axial hypoblast .
epithelium lining the lumen of the gut .
simple columnar epithelium that lines the intestine ,  sometimes pseudostratified ,  with absorptive brush - border cells and mucous goblet cells clearly visible .
the entire digestive tract is lined by well developed villi ,  which are longest in the intestinal bulb and decrease progressively in size towards the caudal end of the intestine .
intestinal epithelium which lines the lumen of the intestinal bulb .
intestinal epithelium which lines the lumen of the mid intestine .
intestinal epithelium which lines the lumen of the posterior intestine .
a double layer composed of peritoneum that attaches the visceral organs to the body wall .
the mesentery that originates from the dorsal side of the peritoneal cavity .
the peritoneum that lines the walls of the peritoneal cavity .
the part of peritoneum that is a serous membrane covers the external surfaces of most abdominal organs .
the mesentery that originates from the ventral side of the peritoneal cavity .
epithelium that is part of a developing tooth or dental organ .
epithelium that surrounds a primary tooth .
inner layer of the dental organ ,  composed of ameloblasts .
outer layer of the dental organ .
a structure that is involved in tooth formation .
mesenchyme enclosed by dental organ .
tissue of the developing tooth .
material in the center of the dentine of the mature tooth .
a dentine - like hypermineralized substance that covers the zebrafish tooth tip .
mineralized collagen containing substance that forms the tooth structure .
nerve that is a branch of cranial nerve viii and innervates the cristae ampullaris .
portion of tissue composed of contractile fibers .
an area of medulla oblongata ,  outside the blood - brain barrier .
a portion of tissue that is regrowing after damage or amputation .
part of the regeneration epithelium closest to the fin .
part of regeneration epithelium at the tip of the fin .
layer of the wound epidermis that surrounds the blastema .
iridescent iridophore containing gold reflecting platelets .
iridescent iridophore containing silver reflecting platelets .
is a joint that is located at the point of contact of articulating bones allowing movement .
portion of organism substance that is a clear fluid that occupies the space in synovial joints .
is a joint where the ends of two bones are connected by cartilage .
a joint where fibrous tissue such as ligament connects two calcified tissues .
tela chorioidea that lines the tectal ventricle .
tela chorioidea that lines the fourth ventricle .
tela chorioidea that lines the third ventricle .
tela chorioidea that lines the telencephalic ventricle .
artery that supplies blood to the liver .
ducts that transport enzymes between organs in the digestive system .
intercellular space surrounded by the basal surface of the hepatocytes that collect bile .
digestive system duct that collects bile from the canaliculus and transports bile through the liver .
digestive system duct that collects bile from the hepatic bile duct and the cystic duct .
duct that connects the gall bladder and the common bile duct .
ampulla formed by the union of the pancreatic duct and the common bile duct where they enter the intestine .
vein that is central to a lobule in the liver .
duct that collects bile from the bile ductules and connects to the extrahepatic bile duct .
bile duct that collects from the intrahepatic ducts and feeds into the common bile duct .
a tube shaped multi - tissue structure lined with epithelial cells that collects secretions and routes them to their destination .
portion of the liver which develops on the fish's left side .
portion of the liver which develops on the fish's right side adjacent to the gall bladder .
portion of the liver which develops on the fish's ventral side .
an interneuron in the spinal cord .
an interneuron of the spinal cord .
an interneuron of the spinal cord .
an interneuron of the spinal cord .
a primary motor neuron that is part of the spinal cord .
a primary motoneuron that is part of the spinal cord .
a primary motor neuron of the spinal cord .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 5 with one dorsal neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron ,  part of rhombomere 5 ,  with one dorsal ,  caudal - lateral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron ,  part of rhombomere 5 ,  with one dorsal ,  caudal - medial neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
a bifurcate interneuron .it is a commissural neuron with both ascending and descending axons in the ventrolateral cord contralateral to its cell body .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 4 ,  with one medial neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 4 with one rostral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 5 with one rostral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 4 with six ventral neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 5 with five ventral neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 with two intermediate - caudal  neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 with one intermediate - rostral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 1 with twelve neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron ,  part of rhombomere 6 ,  with one caudal - lateral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron ,  part of rhombomere 6 ,  with one caudal - medial neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 6 with one dorsal neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 with 4 lateral neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
a rol2 interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 .
a rol2 interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 3 with 1 lateral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 1 with one medial - caudal neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 1 with one medial - rostral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 3 with three ventral neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 with one medial - lateral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 2 with one medial neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 3 with one lateral neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 32 with two medial neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
is a cns interneuron that is part of the hindbrain .
cns interneurons located in the midbrain .
midbrain interneuron in the lateral midbrain .
midbrain interneuron located in the medial midbrain .
midbrain interneuron at the rostral position in the lateral midbrain .
midbrain interneuron at the caudal position in the lateral midbrain .
midbrain interneuron at the medial position in the lateral midbrain .
midbrain interneuron located in the medial midbrain .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 7 ,  with 2 ventral neurons in each hemi - rhombomere .
hindbrain interneuron that is part of rhombomere 7 ,  with 1 dorsal neuron in each hemi - rhombomere .
cranial vasculature where the posterior cerebral veins and the trans - choroid plexus branch form a circuit around the 4th ventricle choroid plexus .
a melanophore stripe that forms the immature pigment pattern .
a larval melanophore stripe that forms a band extending from the head to the tail along the dorsal apex of the myotomes .
a larval melanophore stripe that forms a band ,  of pigmentation extending from the bases of the eyes on each side of the midline to the top of the tail ,  that underlies the myotomes bilaterally ,  still is dorsal to the yolk .
the larval melanophore stripe that is at the level of the horizontal myoseptum .
the larval melanophore stripe that forms a band over the ventral surface of the yolk sac .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
lip that covers the upper portion of the mouth .
a group of about 20 cells deposited by the migrating lateral line primordium .
a portion of tissue that contains the choroid vasculature .
a bifurcate interneuron where the axon projects ventrally ,  crossing the spinal cord  ventral to the mauthner axons before bifurcating and extending dorsally .
is a spinal interneuron that has an axon that splits into roughly equal size branches .
a multipolar  interneuron with branching dendrites .
a interneuron of the spinal cord with an ipsilateral axon that extends ventral to the mauthner axon then turns dorsally  and caudally and sometimes has a minor ascending branch .
a spinal interneuron with a dorsal dendrite that extends caudally .
a unipolar spinal interneuron that forms dendritic trunk laterally with extensive dendritic branching .
a nucleated immature erythrocyte ,  having cytoplasm generally similar to that of the earlier proerythroblast but sometimes even more basophilic ,  and usually regular in outline .
a nucleated precursor of an erythrocyte .
a smooth muscle cell that synthesizes ,  stores ,  and secretes the enzyme renin .
is a specialized pore forming cell of the follicle ,  located adjacent to the animal pole of the oocyte .
kolmer - agduhr neurons are ciliated gabaergic neurons that contact the central canal of the spinal cord and have ipsilateral ascending axons .
a nucleated ,  immature erythrocyte in which the nucleus occupies a relatively smaller part of the cell than in its precursor ,  the basophilic erythroblast .
a ciliated epithelial cell with many cilia .
a ciliated epithelial cell with a single cilium .
a non - sensory cell that extends from the basement membrane to the apical surface of the auditory epithelium and provides support for auditory hair cells .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a xanthophore .
is a fibroblast that differentiates from the de - differentiated cells of the blastema .
interneurons of the spinal cord that arise from the v1 proliferation domain .
vein segment that connects the pcevs in the choroid plexus .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism .
microvessel of the blood circulation system lined with vascular endothelial cells .
a portion of tissue that consists of a tube composed of epithelial cells that connects larger vessels .
microvessel of the lymphatic system lined with a single layer of overlapping endothelial cells .
simple squamous epithelium that lines the capsule of the renal glomerulus .
portion of tissue that encapsulates the glomerulus of the renal corpuscle .
multi - tissue structure part of the blood vasculature .
a portion of tissue formed between the base of the intestinal villi that is part of the intestinal epithelium where intestinal stem cells are located .
the vascular endothelium that lines blood vasculature .
the vascular endothelium that lines the lymph vessels .
blood vessel endothelium that has tight junctions between the endothelial cells .
blood vessel endothelium that has pores that allow passage small molecules and proteins .
fenestrated blood vessel endothelium with pores that are large enough for blood cells to pass .
caudal procurrent ray that is dorsally located on the caudal fin skeleton .
caudal procurrent ray that is ventrally located on the caudal fin skeleton .
ligament that connects the maxilla with the lower jaw .
ligament that connects the premaxilla to the maxilla .
muscle that moves parts of the body in a superior direction to an erect position .
a muscle that brings a body part closer to the sagittal plane of the body .
a muscle that moves a body part away  from the sagittal plane of the body .
a muscle that moves body parts into an inferior direction or lowered position .
a muscle that decrease the angle of a joint .
immature reproductive tissue that has not undergone final maturation into either testis or ovary .
a thin layer of smooth muscle immediately beneath the base of the villi which permits the intestinal mucosa to dynamically move and fold .
a non - striated muscle that is composed of spindle - shaped cells .
fin muscle that is located on the anterior edge of the fin .
muscle ,  composed of long cylindrical ,  multinucleated cells that attaches to the skeleton via tendons .
smooth muscle of the enteric muscle system in which the cells are aligned parallel to the lumen of the gut .
smooth muscle of the enteric muscle system in which the cells are aligned perpendicular to the lumen of the gut .
muscle composed of cardiac muscle cells that is part of the heart .
the part of the nephron that filters blood .
functional unit of the kidney that filters waste .
space between the renal glomerulus and the glomerular capsule .
capillary that is part of the renal glomerulus .
membrane between the mesonephric podocytes and the renal glomerular capillaries .
middle layer of the glomerular basement membrane .
layer of the glomerular basement membrane adjacent to the glomerular capillary .
layer of the glomerular basement membrane adjacent to the podocytes and capsular space .
tubes in the kidney that collect and transport urine .
renal tubule that connects to the renal corpuscle .
portion of the renal tubule which is just posterior to the proximal convoluted tubule .
portion of the renal tubule which is just posterior to the distal early tubule .
portion of the renal tubule which is just posterior to the proximal straight tubule .
renal duct that collects the output from renal tubules .
blood vessel that runs along the rostral - caudal axis of the fish .
lymph vessel that runs along the rostral - caudal axis of the fish .
blood vessel part of cranial vasculature .
lymph vessel that is located in the head .
blood vessel part of fin .
lymph vessel part of fin .
blood vessel part of pectoral fin .
lymph vessel part of pectoral fin .
lymph vessel that is located in the caudal fin .
blood vessel located within the caudal fin .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the kidney .
blood vessel part of kidney .
arteriole that carries blood into the glomerular capillaries .
arteriole that carries blood out of the glomerular capillaries .
capillary that is part of the pronephric glomerulus .
portion of tissue that encapsulates the glomerulus of the pronephros .
simple squamous epithelium that lines the capsule of the pronephric glomerulus .
space between the pronephric glomerulus and the pronephric glomerular capsule .
membrane between the pronephric podocytes and the pronephric glomerular capillaries .
any of the tubular multi - tissue structures through which blood circulates in the body .
multi - tissue structure part of the blood vasculature formed by the anastomosis of capillaries .
fin fold of the pectoral fin bud ,  resulting from mesenchyme migration into the apical fold .
the functional webs of the paired fins .
lymph vessel that is located between the somites .
smooth muscle that is part of the blood vessel wall .
a cuboidal epithelial cell of the kidney which regulates sodium and potassium balance .
specialized epithelial cells involved in the maintenance of osmotic homeostasis .
ionocyte located in the gills .
ionocyte located in the integument during embryonic and larval stages .
integument ionocyte rich in na , k - atpase .
integument ionocyte rich in vacuolar - type h +  atpase and carbonic anhydrase .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into an iridophore .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a leucophore .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into an erythrophore .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a cyanophore .
a multi - tissue mediosagittal cylinder - shaped structure ,  clearly isolated from the jaw and adhered by differentiated plicae to the lateral walls .
the thick ,  high squamous - stratified epithelium that covers the lips .
embryonic structure that forms from the anterior gut epithelium at the level of the second somite that then matures to form the swim bladder .
portion of the gut endoderm that will eventually develop into the swim bladder .
portion of tissue that forms from the swim bladder epithelium at the anterior end of the swim bladder .
posterior protrusion of the third ventricle .
is a diencephalic nucleus located in the caudal periventricular hypothalamus surrounding the lateral recess of the third ventricle .
a diencephalic nucleus that is part of caudal periventricular hypothalmus surrounding the posterior recess of the third ventricle .
cns white matter tract ,  major catecholaminergic tract that originates in the diencephalon ,  passes the locus coeruleus and projects through the hindbrain into the spinal cord .
cns white matter ,  an axonal tract between ventral diencephalon and ventral telencephalon .
cns white matter ,  axonal tract interconnecting catecholaminergic cell groups in the posterior tuberculum and hypothalamus .
cns white matter ,  axonal tract between the preoptic region and ventral diencephalon .
connective tissue in which fat is stored .
portion of the pancreatic duct ,  external to the pancreas body that connects the pancreas with the hepatopancreatic ampulla .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 4 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 5 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 6 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 7 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 8 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 11 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 9 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 10 .
first lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
second lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
third lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
fourth lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
fifth lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
sixth lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
seventh lepidotrichium of dorsal fin .
first proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
second proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is the rostralmost pterygiophore of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 1 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to pterygiophore 2 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 3 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 4 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 5 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 6 of the dorsal fin .
dorsal fin pterygiophore that is caudal to  pterygiophore 7 of the dorsal fin .
first distal radial of the dorsal fin .
second distal radial of the dorsal fin .
third distal radial of the dorsal fin .
fourth distal radial of the dorsal fin .
fifth distal radial of the dorsal fin .
sixth distal radial of the dorsal fin .
seventh distal radial of the dorsal fin .
eighth distal radial of the dorsal fin .
third proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
fourth proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
fifth proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
sixth proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
seventh proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
eighth proximal radial of the dorsal fin .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
foramen in the occipital region of neurocranium to allow passage of spinal cord .
anatomical space that is a concavity ,  shallow depression ,  or groove on a bone .
anatomical space that is the external opening of a gill slit connecting the pharyngeal cavity to the exterior .
gill ray is a slender ,  usually rod - like cartilage within a gill filament and ligamentously tied to its associated pharyngeal arch bone or cartilage .
lateral line system on head and pectoral girdle .
sensory canal associated with the infraorbital bones .
sensory canal between and in close proximity posteriorly with the post - otic and preoperculo - mandibular sensory canals ,  and anteriorly with the supraorbital and infraorbital sensory canals .
sensory canal  that forms dorsal to the horizontal semicircular canal of the ear .
sensory canal lateral or ventral to and in close proximity to the otic and post - otic sensory canals at their union .
sensory canal contained in the nasal and frontal bones .
nerve that is a branch of cranial nerve vii that passes through or around the suspensorium to innervate muscles and sensory organs on or near pharyngeal arch 2 .
actinotrichium that is part of the anal fin skeleton .
first lepidotrichium of anal fin .
second lepidotrichium of anal fin .
third epidotrichium of anal fin .
fourth lepidotrichium of anal fin .
fifth lepidotrichium of anal fin .
sixth lepidotrichium of anal fin .
seventh lepidotrichium of anal fin .
fossa or chamber on anterior portion of orbital region of neurocranium that serves as attachment site for anterior extrinsic eye musculature .
barbel that is associated with the anterior nostril .
barbel that is attached to the distal end of the maxilla and that originates on the side of the mouth .
the dorsal part of the ear .
the ventral portion of the ear .
duct that forms when the nonampullary ends of the posterior and anterior semicircular canals merge .
duct that crosses the midline connecting the sacculi .
portion of organism substance that is an extracellular fluid that has a low potassium concentration .
the portion of organism substance that is an extracellular fluid that has a high potassium and sodium concentration .
foramen in the inner ear .
inner ear foramen that connects the lagena to the caudal half of the saccule .
inner ear foramen that connects the rostral saccula to the utricle .
opening in the neurocranium to allow communication between the swim bladder and the inner ear .
foramen through which cranial nerve viii  ( auditory )  exits .
joint that articulates the autopalatine and lateral ethmoid and bones .
joint that articulates the autopalatine cartilage or bone and maxilla .
joint that articulates autopalatine and vomer bones .
joint that articulates the basioccipital and exoccipital .
actinotrichium that is part of the caudal fin skeleton .
a multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer and a connective tissue layer .
foramen that is located in the coracoid .
foramen located on the dentary for passage of the mandibular nerve .
foramen in the orbital region of the neurocranium for the passage of the optic nerve  ( cranial nerve ii )  .
foramen for the passage of the olfactory nerve or cranial nerve 1 .
foramen in the bone or cartilage comprising the anterior wall of the orbit ,  and through which passes at least the deep ophthalmic branch of cranial nerve v  ( trigeminal )  .
foramen that is located in the scapula .
foramen through which the superficial ophthalmic nerve passes .
barbel that originates on the chin .
acellular anatomical structure that is a natural outgrowth ,  prominence ,  or point that is part of the surface of a tooth .
skeletal element which is a slender ,  horny ,  flexible ,  unsegmented fibril which provide structural support to fin folds or fins .
nerve that is part of the pectoral fin .
motor nerve that is located in the pectoral fin .
sensory nerve that innervates the pectoral fin .
pectoral fin motor nerve that enters the fin from the dorsal side of the fin rostral of all other motor nerves and innervates the dorsal side of the pectoral fin .
pectoral fin motor nerve that enters the fin from the dorsal side of the fin caudal of nerve 1 and rostral of all other motor nerves and innervates the dorsal side of the pectoral fin .
pectoral fin motor nerve that enters the fin from the dorsal side of the fin caudal of nerve 1 and 2 and rostral of nerve 4 and innervates the dorsal side of the pectoral fin .
fossa of opercle that articulates with hyomandibular condyle for opercle .
multi - tissue structure that is a fluid - filled canal in the integument and usually dermal bones ,  and contains one or more neuromasts .
sensory canal on trunk which is posterior to the pectoral girdle and often reaching to the caudal fin .
sensory canal that crosses over the dorsal midline and in close proximity to the contralateral post - otic sensory canals .
foramen in a bone that is part of a sensory canal .
sensory canal that is a side branch between a sensory canal proximally and a pore at its distal end .
sensory canal associated with the preopercle bone .
an anatomical space that is an opening ,  usually at the end of a canal or duct ,  on the surface of the integument or the lining of an internal anatomical space .
pectoral fin motor nerve that enters the fin from the ventral side of the fin and innervates the ventral side of the pectoral fin .
sensory canal associated with the angular and dentary bones .
tract which originates from several clusters of cell bodies in the rostral midbrain ,  the anterior tegmentum and the nucleus of the posterior commissure .
opening in the prootic .the basicapsular fenestra is paired .
fossa where the anteromedial rim is formed by the prootic ,  the remainder of the fossa is formed by the exoccipital and pterotic .
foramen formed between the anterolateral extension of the prootic that contacts the pterosphenoid the prootic and the pterosphenoid .
perilymphatic compartment of the zebrafish ear .
joint that articulates the dorsal hypohyal and urohyal bones .
joint that articulates the dorsal hypohyal and ventral hypohyal bones .
space that contains perilymph .
bilaterally paired perilymphatic chambers posterior to the sinus impar .
duct that contains perilymph .
pair of perilymphatic ducts that extend from the dorsal ends of the atria of the sinus impar ,  pass on either side of the medulla and merge and extend dorsally toward the surface of the head .
ectoderm of the oral region .
joint that articulates the dentary and anguloarticular .
joint that articulates the ceratohyal and branchiostegal ray bones .
joint that articulates the ceratohyal and ventral hypohyal bones .
joint that articulates the ceratohyal and dorsal hypohyal bones .
joint that articulates the frontal and pterotic .
joint that articulates the hyomandibula bone and metapterygoid bone .
joint between the right and left coracoid bones of the pectoral girdle .
joint that articulates the left and right basipterygium cartilage or bone .
joint between the left and right frontal bone .
joint that articulates the interhyal and epihyal bones ,  or interhyal and ceratohyal cartilages .
joint that articulates the left and right hypobranchial 3 cartilages or bones .
joint that articulates the left and right premaxillary bones .
joint that articulates the contralateral ventral hypohyal bones or the contralateral ceratobranchial cartilages .
joint that articulates the lateral ethmoid and frontal .
joint that articulates the opercle and interopercle .
joint that articulates the orbitosphenoid cartilage or bone and lateral ethmoid cartilage or bone .
joint that articulates orbitosphenoid and prootic bones .
joint that articulates the prootic and exoccipital .
joint that articulates the prootic and pterosphenoid .
joint that articulates the pterosphenoid and orbitosphenoid .
joint that articulates quadrate and anguloarticular bones .
joint that articulates quadrate and hyomandibula bones .
joint that articulates quadrate and metapterygoid bones .
joint that articulates the ventral hypohyal and urohyal bones .
joint that articulates the left and right dentary bones .
is a portion of tissue part of the heart primordium which will give rise to the endocardium .
portion of tissue that will develop into the myocardium .
groove that is in the ventral optic cup remnant of the optic fissure .
fossa where the hyomandibula articulates with the sphenotic and prootic to form the hyomandibular - otic region joint .
organ entity that is typically involved in mechanical support and may have different skeletal tissue compositions at different stages .
surface structure that is a portion of skin that projects or hangs from the body .
surface structure that is the region of the head in front of and between the orbits ,  and above the lower jaw .
joint that articulates the epihyal and ceratohyal bones .
joint that articulates the epihyal and branchiostegal ray bones .
fine ridges on surface of scale ,  often parallel to the circumference of scale .
is a bony partially gas filled sphere located ventral and anterior to the inner ear .
interopercular - mandibular ligament is a ligament that connects the interopercle to the retroarticular element of the lower jaw .
lateral ethmoid - autopalatine ligament is a ligament that connects the lateral ethmoid to the autopalatine .
lateral ethmoid - ectopterygoid ligament is a ligament that connects the lateral ethmoid to the ectopterygoid .
joint between the centra ,  and sometimes the neural arches or parapophyses of vertebra 4 and vertebra 5 .
joint between the centra ,  and sometimes the neural arches or parapophyses .
joint between the centra ,  and sometimes the neural arches or parapophyses of vertebra 6 and vertebra 7 .
multi - tissue structure composed of connective tissue that surrounds ,  the internal portions of the olfactory epithelium .
mental barbel that originates on the chin ,  in an anteromedial position relative to the outer mental barbel .
anatomical cluster that is the upper roof of the mouth that is roofed by bones such as the parasphenoid ,  prevomer ,  metapterygoid ,  orbitosphenoid .
shallow area that exists on the prootic .
dermal bone that is ring - shaped or cylindrical and surrounds a sensory canal .
caudal principal ray that is the dorsalmost caudal principal ray of the caudal fin .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 2 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 1 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 3 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 4 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 5 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 6 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 7 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 8 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 9 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 10 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 11 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 13 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 14 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 15 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 16 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 17 .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 18 .
scale that is associated with the lateral line sensory canal .
the bony shelf above orbit is an anatomical cluster formed by the dorsolateral portions of the lateral ethmoid ,  frontal and sphenotic bones that forms the dorsal margin of the orbit .
dermal bone that is located on or subjacent to the surface anywhere on the body and that is not part of the general complement of scales ,  dermal bone of the dermatocranium ,  postcranial axial skeleton or paired fin skeleton .
caudal fin lepidotrichium that is distally branched .
dorsal fin ray that is distally branched .
anal fin lepidotrichium that is distally branched .
anatomical space between bones of the neurocranium .
fontanel within the frontal bone near the frontal - sphenotic joint .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the first centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the second centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the third centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the fourth centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the fifth centrum .
rib that articulates with the parapophysis of the sixth centrum .
joint that articulates the hyomandibular cartilage or bone and otic region cartilage or sphenotic bone ,  and often pterotic bone and prootic bone .
actinotrichium that is part of the pectoral fin .
actinotrichium that is part of the pelvic fin .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium 1 is the leading or marginal ray of the fin and articulates with the scapula .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the second most anterior pectoral ray ,  usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the third most anterior pectoral ray ,  usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the sixth most anterior pectoral ray ,  usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the seventh most anterior pectoral ray ,  usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the fifth most anterior pectoral ray  ,  usually branched and segmented .
pectoral fin lepidotrichium that ,  in a linear sequence ,  is the fourth most anterior pectoral ray ,  usually branched and segmented .
first lepidotrichium of pelvic fin .
second lepidotrichium of pelvic fin .
fourth lepidotrichium of pelvic fin .
third lepidotrichium of pelvic fin .
anatomical space that is the concavity containing the eye .
portion of vessel wall that extends to form a new vessel .
joint that articulates the parasphenoid and basioccipital .
portion of organism substance that is a gelatinous extracellular matrix structure that fills the vitreous cavity of the eye .
acellular anatomical structure that is the innermost layer of the optic choroid .
multi - tissue structure that composes the opaque fibrous outer layer of the eye .
clear ocular fluid in the anterior segment of the eye .
a specialized hair cell that has an elongated kinocilium upon which an otolith accretes .
anatomical cluster comprising the rostral portion of the eye ;   the cornea ,  lens ,  iris ,  ciliary zone ,  anterior chamber ,  and annular ligament .
anatomical cluster comprising the caudal portion of the eye: the retina ,  posterior chamber ,  optic choroid ,  and vitreous .
blood vessels within the stroma of the iris .
portion of the iris which contains  bundles of fibers ,  most of which are oriented radially around the pupil .
the line where the cornea and the sclera meet .
duct present in the angle where the cornea meets the ciliary zone that absorbs the aqueous humor .
head mesenchyme surrounding the immature eye that  gives rise to specialized structures of the anterior segment of the eye .
modified or toughened vitreous that suspend the lens at the equator to the non - pigmented epithelium of the ciliary zone .
the lens capsule is a modified basement membrane that completely surrounds the ocular lens .
portion of tissue that are compact accumulations of neurons having roughly similar connections and functions .
brain nuclei located in the ventral thalamus .
the multi - tissue structure that is the beginning of the spinal nerve leaving the spinal cord .
integument ionocyte rich in na - cl co - transporter  ( ncc )  activity .
rostral portion of pars anterior of the adenohypophysis where corticotropes and lactotropes localize .
caudal portion of pars anterior of the adenohypophysis where somatotropes ,  thyrotropes and gonadotropes are localized .
cluster of cells along the edge of  the neural plate that have the potential to become neuroblast .
cluster of cells along the center of  the neural plate that have the potential to become neuroblast .
anatomical cluster which give rise to mature mesonephric nephrons .
renal duct that will develop into the mesonephric proximal tubule .
hollow cluster of epithelial cells derived from the nephron progenitor .
cluster of cells comprising a portion of tissue which gives rise to new mesonephric nephrons .
developing nephron with a comma shaped appearance .
developing nephron with a tubular morphology that has a renal corpuscle anlage at the distal end .
developing nephron where the developing glomerular capsule has been invaded by a glomerular capillary loop called the glomerular tuft .
renal duct that will develop into the mesonephric distal tubule .
a branched nephron of the mature kidney .
an anatomical structure that is regional part of the central nervous system where there is a significant bend of the axis .
non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions ,  that is demarcated by anatomical lines or points on the external or internal surfaces of anatomical structures .
caudal principal ray that is ventrally adjacent to caudal principal ray 12 .
fin that is one of a pair located ventrally on the organism .
fin that is an unpaired fin located in the sagittal plane of the organism .
ghrelin secreting cells found in the found in the exocrine pancreas .
a cell that secretes ghrelin ,  the peptide hormone that stimulates hunger .
region at venious pole of heart tube that initiates heart beat .
ring of cardiac conduction tissue around the sinoatrial region of the heart tube that performs pacemaker function .
supraneural located posterior to supraneural 9 .
portion of vessel wall that extends to form a new lymph vessel .
portion of vessel wall that extends to form a new blood vessel .
the primordial vasculature that will develop into lymph vessels .
anatomical cluster of skeletal elements that forms the roof over the brain .
fibrous joint connecting the parietal bones .
fibrous joint connecting the frontal bone to the parietal bone .
fibrous joint connecting the supraoccipital to the parietal bone .
joint in which the articulating bones are connected by bone .
synostosis where the entopterygoid meets the quadrate .
synostosis where the ectopterygoid meets the entopterygoid .
synchondrosis where the basioccipital meets the prootic anteriorly .
synostosis where the entopterygoid meets the metapterygoid .
opening formed between the ventral border of the metapterygoid and the dorsal border of the symplectic .
synchondrosis where the quadrate meets the entopterygoid dorsally .
synostosis where anteromedial extensions of the lateral ethmoid project to meet the supraethmoid dorsally .
cartilaginous joint that articulates the anguloarticular posteroventrally with the retroarticular .
connective tissue that functions in mechanical and structural support .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
skeletal tissue that is part of the exoskeleton and derived from an odontogenic papilla .
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
space enclosed by the trabeculae cranii .
synovial joint that articulates the hyomandibula and the opercle .
synovial joint that articulates the hyomandibula with the pterotic .
fossa where the exoccipital forms the medial portion and the epioccipital forms the lateral margin .
foramen in the hyomandibula that allows passage of the anterior lateral line nerve and the facial nerve  ( cranial nerve vii )  .
fossa on the pterotic  where the hyomandibula articulates .
fibrous joint that articulates the posterior edge of the  preopercle horizontal limb with the symplectic .
fibrous joint that articulates the anterior edge of the preopercle vertical limb and the  hyomandibula .
skeletal element which is part of lepidotrichium articulating with other lepidotrichium segments by lepidotrichium joints .
joint that articulates segments of the fin ray .
odontoid tissue formed of a loose matrix of collagen .
ligament that connects the intercalarium to the  anterior process of the tripus and the scaphium .
ligament that connects one rib to another .
ligaments that runs from the parapophyses of the anteriormost centrum to the exoccipital .
ligament that runs from the ventral third of the supracleithrum to the exoccipital .
ligament that run from the dorsal tip of the cleithrum to the exoccipital .
ligament that connects the dentary to the maxilla .
ligament that connects the  rostral process of the maxilla  to the kinethmoid .
ligament that ,  in the adult ,  attaches the premaxilla to its counterpart at the midline and the kinethmoid posterodorsally .
the ligament that connects the anteroventral tips of ceratobranchials 5 medially .
short ligament that runs from the hooked anterior end of the supracleithrum to the intercalar .
ligament that connects the  preopercle to the retroarticular anteroventrally .
dense regular connective tissue that connects muscle to bone .
joint that articulates the mesethmoid and lateral ethmoid .
joint that articulates the mesethmoid and vomer .
adductor that originates at the cleithrum the muscle fibers run in sheets along the endoskeletal disk extending dorsally and caudally from its base .
abductor that originates at the cleithrum the muscle fibers run in sheets along the endoskeletal disk extending dorsally and caudally from its base .
layers of broad flat tendons .
portion of tissue in the vagal lobe that contains gabaergic sensory interneurons .
portion of organism substance that is the liquid matrix of blood .
endochondral process of the autopalatine that forms the socket of the autopalatine - preethmoid joint .
synovial ,  ball and socket joint that articulates the autopalatine and the preethmoid .
endochondral bone part of autopalatine that extends towards the first infraorbital .
portion of organism substance found in the lymphatic system .
thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the intestinal  epithelium .
multi - tissue structure of the intestine comprising of the intestinal epithelium and the intestinal lamina propria mucosa .
multi - tissue structure part of the olfactory bulb  that  is roughly spheroidal and encircled by olfactory sensory neuron axons that formed an anatomically distinct stalk  connected to the olfactory nerve .
bilaterally - paired nerve connecting each segment of the spinal cord to the limbs and organs .
dorsal branch of the spinal nerve ,  coursing dorsally and caudally between the muscle and the vertebrae .
ventral branch of the spinal nerve that projects toward the lateral surface of the myotome ,  initially extending parallel to the horizontal myoseptum .
ventral spinal nerve branch that projects to the ventral myotome .
ventral spinal nerve sub - branch that runs near the rostral end of the myotome near the vertical myoseptum .
ventral spinal nerve sub - branch that projects ventrally in the rostro - caudal center of the myotome .
multi - tissue structure part of the olfactory bulb comprised of ciliated and microvillous olfactory sensory neurons projections that form specialized neuropilar regions comprised of olfactory sensor axons and the dendrites of olfactory bulb neurons .
protoglomeruli in the lateral  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the medial  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
single large glomerulus located in the ventral posterior region of the maturing glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
central region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
dorsal region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
lateral region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
medial region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
ventral region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
lateral region of the dorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
medial portion of the ventral region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
anterior portion of the ventral region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
posterior portion of the ventral region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
dorsal part of the medial region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
anterior portion of the medial region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located between ventromedial and medial olfactory bulb surfaces .
glomerulus located in the dorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsolateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsolateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsolateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsolateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsolateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
group of glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb the vmgx group ,  is  located 10 - 50 micrometers from the ventral surface of the olfactory bulb .
group of glomerulus located in the ventromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
one of two large glomeruli located in the medial side of the ventroposterior zone olfactory bulb .
one of two large glomeruli located in the lateral side of the ventroposterior zone olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the dorsoanterior region of the  lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
group of glomerulus located in the lateral region of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the lateral zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the mediodorsal zone of the olfactory bulb .
glomerulus located in the anteromedial  zone of the olfactory bulb .
group of small glomeruli located in the anteromedial zone of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the lateral  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the lateral  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the lateral  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the lateral  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the central zone  of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the medial  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the medial  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the medial  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
protoglomeruli in the medial  region of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
motor neuron that innervate muscles that control eye ,  jaw ,  and facial movements of the vertebrate head and parasympathetic neurons that innervate certain glands and organs .
cranial motor neuron which innervates muscles derived from the branchial  ( pharyngeal )  arches .
cranial motor neurons are found in the hindbrain ,  and innervate parasympathetic neurons that innervate tear glands ,  sweat glands ,  and the smooth muscles and glands of the pulmonary ,  cardiovascular ,  and gastrointestinal systems .
cranial motor neurons found in the midbrain and hindbrain that innervates muscles that control eye and tongue .
a system of osteocytes connected through canals within the vertebra .
anatomical space ,  part of the lacunocanalicular system that connects lacuna within bone tissue allowing osteocyte projections to connect .
anatomical space a small cavity ,  in the matrix of bone tissue .
multicellular structure composed of endodermal cells that forms a continuous rod along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo in contact with the ysl .
portion of the intestinal rod that loops to left between 26 - 30hpf and gives rise to the intestinal bulb and liver and anterior pancreatic primordium .
a secretory cell found in pancreatic acini that secretes digestive enzymes and mucins .
a cuboidal epithelial cell that is continuous with the lining of intercalated ducts that drain the acinus .
portion of exocrine pancreas that is comprised of polarized cells containing apical zymogen granules that store digestive enzymes such as trypsin and chymotrypsin and abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria .
polypeptide producing cell located in the islets of the pancreas .
a d cell located in the pancreas .
cells that  form an epithelial - like sheath around the vacuolated inner notochord cells .
a cell whose primary function is to provide structural support ,  to provide strength and physical integrity to the organism .
structural cell of notochord that contain one large fluid - filled intracellular vacuole that occupies most of the cell volume .
lymph vessels that are located on either side of the pcv in the posterior region of the intestine .
digestive duct within the pancreas .
the portion of the intrapancreatic duct leading from the pancreatic acinar gland to the intralobular duct .
intrapancreatic duct within a pancreatic lobe that connects all the  intercalated duct with an interlobular duct .
intrapancreatic duct that connects the intralobular duct to the main pancreatic duct .
intrapancreatic duct that connects to the interlobular ducts and drains into the extrapancreatic duct .
cluster of acinar glands surrounding an intralobular duct .
the primary islet is the first islet to develop .
portion of tissue composed of a group of cells in the pancreas producing insulin ,  glucagon and somatostatin .
islet that develops after the primary islet .
portion of tissue composed of the signal - generating cells within the zona limitans intrathalamica .
adipose tissue interspersed within the pancreatic acini .
adipose tissue on the surface of the organs within the pleuroperitoneal cavity .
adipose tissue in the cranium .
adipose tissue surrounding the eye .
adipose tissue between muscle and integument .
adipose tissue surrounding the esophagus .
adipose tissue deposited along the mandible .
adipose tissue surrounding the heart .
adipose tissue that forms at the base of the pectoral fin .
subcutaneous adipose tissue deposit at the base of the caudal fin .
sensory neuron that extends a single axon shaft along the lateral white matter of the hindbrain and spinal cord .
a male germ cell that develops from the haploid secondary spermatocytes .
specialized olfactory support cell that surrounds crypt olfactory sensory neurons .
portion of tissue that develops from the cranial neural crest and which cells populate a series of pharyngeal arches from which develops the support skeleton of the jaw and gills .
diploid cell produced by the fusion of sperm cell nucleus and egg cell .
an endothelial progenitor cell that participates in angiogenesis during development .
the external layer of the atrium bounding the atrial myocardium .
neuron that is part of the enteric nervous system .
parasympathetic neurons are part of the parasympathetic nervous system and the cell bodies lie in the brain and sacral region of the spinal cord .
sympathetic neurons are part of the sympathetic nervous system and are primarily adrenergic producing the neurotransmitter noradrenalin along with other neuropeptides .
a neuron that releases hypocretin as a neurotransmitter .
epithelium within the thymus where lymphocytes mature .
epithelium of the thymus primordium composed of cells of immature morphology .
part of the gut where the pronephric tubules come together with the caudal end of the intestine attaching at 4dpf .
the juncture where the  intestine empties into the cloaca .
epithelium lining the cloaca .the epithelium is a simple cuboidal epithelium at prim - 5 .
muscle cell which has as its direct parts myofilaments organized into sarcomeres .
striated muscle of the esophogus .
wedge - shaped epidermal cell positioned along the apex of the developing fin fold .
artery that runs along the midline from anterior to posterior regions of the hypothalamus and splits into two capillary branches  ( hyc )  .
vein thats tarts posterior of the hypophysis and drains the hypophyseal capillaries .
axon tract originating  from the two hemispheres of the neurosecretory preoptic areas  converging into the midline and terminating at the ventral part of the hypothalamus at the presumed location of the pituitary .
pair of capillaries that bilaterally encompass the hypophysis starting at the anterior aspect of the hypophysis  ( pituitary )  .
surface structure that is a keratinized epidermal appendages that is a contact organ and secondary sex organ .
surface structure that is a protrusion from the rostral end of the jaw ,  supported by the mandibular projection .
layer of smooth cells composing the outer layer of the breeding tubercle .
cell layer that lies underneath the superficial layer of the breeding tubercle .
intermediate layer of the breeding tubercles characterized by cells with  loose spinous organization connected to each other via desmosomes ,  but with wide extracellular spaces in between .
layer of breeding tubercle proximal to basal lamina of the integument .
breeding tubercles along the surface of the pectoral fin lepidotrichium of males .
surface structures composed of breeding tubercles arranged in a double row in the medial region on each side of the lower jaw .
breeding tubercles that cover the surface of the jaw flap .
portion of organism substance that is located between the cap and second tier layers of the breeding tubercles .
the interrenal vessel  ( irv )  is the blood vessels supplying the interrenal gland .
sprout from the dorsal aorta that develops into the interrenal vessel .
gelatinous substance surrounding the kinocila of the neuromast .
efferent neuron where the cell body is located in the hindbrain reticular formation immediately adjacent to the medial longitudinal fascicle at the rostrocaudal level between the midl and the cad and adjacent to the descending mauthner axon .
efferent neuron located in the hindbrain .
efferent neurons located ventrally in the diencephalon .
anatomical space within the intestine where digestion normally occurs .
transient cluster of cardiac progenitor cells that develops adjacent to the heart and migrates onto the heart to form the epicardium .
network of heavily branched muscle in the atrium .
trabecular layer of the atrial myocardium .
is an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
artery that carries blood from the efferent branchial artery to the cardiac ventricle .
capillaries that innervate the subtrabecular layer of the heart .
vein that carries blood from the coronary capillaries to the atrial chamber entering the atrium close to the atrioventricular region .
target definition: hindbrain interneurons that are part of the reticular formation .
anterior longitudinal muscles of the dorsal fin .
anterior longitudinal muscles of the dorsal fin .
the layer of caudal fin musculature immediately under the integument that originate from the vertebral column and insert at the base of caudal fin rays .
the layer of caudal fin musculature immediately under the superficial caudal fin musculature that originate from the vertebral column and insert at the base of caudal fin rays .
paired ,  deep caudal fin muscles that arise broadly from the hypurals and extends dorsocaudally where the fiber bundles converge into a narrow insertion site on the 5th caudal fin ray .
paired superficial caudal fin muscle that has a narrow attachment site along the  midline posterior to the attachment of the lateralis superficialis ventralis  and fans out to attach broadly in a region between the 12th and 16th caudal fin ray .
paired superficial caudal fin muscle that has a narrow attachment site along the midline posterior to the attachment of the lateralis superficialis dorsalis  and fans out to attach broadly in a region between the 4th and 8th caudal fin ray .
paired superficial caudal fin muscle that originates from a broad base at the midline and narrows toward its attachment at the dorsal tip of the caudal fin .
paired superficial caudal fin muscle that is located ventrally and extends from the myoseptum to the ventral tip of the caudal fin where it attaches in the region of the second lowest  ( eighteenth )  long fin ray .
paired superfical caudal fin muscle that is located dorsally and extends from the myoseptum to the dorsal tip of the caudal fin where it attaches in the region of the second upper long fin ray .
cardiac muscle  located in the trabecular layer of the ventricle that is attached to the base of the av and bv valves .
cardiac muscle  located in the trabecular layer of the ventricle that spans the central lumen near the ventricular apex .
an olfactory receptor cells with apical microvilli .
vessel that drains aqueous humor from the eye .
a cell of a  hematopoietic lineage .
interconnected lymph vasculature in the anterior portion of the head .
superficial lymph vessel that is part of pharyngeal arch 3 .
superficial lymph vessel that is part of pharyngeal arch 4 .
superficial lymph vessel that is part of pharyngeal arch 5 .
superficial lymph vessel that is part of pharyngeal arch 6 .
lymphangiogenic sprout that  originates from the common cardinal vein and extends along the primary head sinus .
superfical lymph vessel part of the facial lymphatic network  that develops from the facial lymphatic sprout .
facial lymphatic vessel that sprouts from the lateral facial lymph vessel .
facial lymph vessel that sprouts from the lateral facial lymph vessel .
lymph vasculature surrounding the intestines .
lymph vessel that follows the supraintestinal artery .
pair of lymph vessel that follows the right subintestinal vein .
lymph vessels that are on the right side of the intestine .
any of the tubular multi - tissue structures through which lymph moves in the body .
lymph vessel that extends along the left subintestinal vein .
lymph vessels that are on the left side of the intestine .
lymph vessel on the left of the intestine that runs parallel to the upper right intestinal lymph vessel .
lymph vessel that connects lymph vessels within the intestinal lymphatic network .
is a multi - tissue structure composed of dentine ,  enameloid and tooth pulp that develops from the dental organ .
a cluster of neurons first visible in the embryonic diencephalon located in the dorsolateral brain just posterior to the posterior commissure ,   that project growth cones ventrally along the posterior commissure to the anterior tegmentum where the pc intersects two longitudinal tracts ,  the tract of the postoptic commissure  ( tpoc )  and the medial longitudinal fasciculus  ( mlf )  .
is a multi - tissue structure composed of dentine ,  enameloid and tooth pulp that develops from the dental organ .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 3v and anterior to tooth 5v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the posteriormost tooth in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 2v and anterior to tooth 4v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is posterior to tooth 1v and anterior to tooth 3v in the ventral tooth row .
ceratobranchial 5 tooth which is the anteriormost tooth in the ventral tooth row .
zebrafish bile contains the bile alcohol cyprinol sulfate .
capillaries that branch from the hyaloid artery and drain into the hyaloid vein .
joint that articulates the interhyal skeletal element and ceratohyal skeletal element .
joint that articulates the interhyal element and the hyosymplectic element .
joint that articulates the opercle and they hyosymplectic .
lymph vessels within the ovary .
pectoral fin muscle .links pectoral fin and branchial movement and stabilizes the pectoral girdle .
portion of optic tract that innervates the optic tectum .
neuron with the large soma in the brain with an axon projecting caudally to the spinal cord .
cns interneuron with a soma located in a cluster  in the lateral wall of the medulla ,  with dendrites confined to the neuropil ,   that has connections to the vestibular and lateral line neurons .
mesoderm part of the head .
rostral cell mass bordering the pretectum .
multi - tissue structure that is made up of the external granular layer and the ventral proliferative layer .
proliferative zone on the ventral side of the cerebellar plate .
portion of tissue in the midbrain that will develop into the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus synencephalon .
proliferative region that forms on peripheral side of the cerebellar plate .
a neuron that releases norephinephrine   ( noradrenaline )  as a neurotransmitter .
spiral neurons are excitatory interneurons located in rhombomere 3 and have contralateral projections that cross the midline forming commissures in rhombomere 3 .
tract that extends from the intersection of the tract of the postoptic commissure and supraoptic tract that projects caudally across the hypothalamus and into the commissure of the caudal tuberculum .
the space between the cornea and lens in the anterior segment of the eye where the aqueous humor is located .
commissure that is formed by a subset of tcpt axons that cross the midline in the diencephalon .
an undifferentiated germ cell that proliferates rapidly and gives rise to oocytes .
tubules formed by the seminiferous epithelium that contains spermatogenic cyst surrounded by somatic support cells ,  called sertoli cells .
epithelium that lines the seminiferous tubules .
the membranous sheath that surrounding the seminiferous tubule .
structure in the testis formed by cytoplasmic projections of one or two sertoli cells that surround a single spermatogonium .
membranous sheath that surrounds the testis .
lumen of the seminiferous tubule .
ligament that connects the anterior apex of the opercle to the posterior end of the ceratohyal .
cartilage that attaches the parachordal cartilage to the auditory capsule anterior to the basicapsular fenestra .
cartilage that attaches the parachordal cartilage to the auditory capsule posterior of the  basicapsular fenestra .
cartilage that grows from the auditory capsule medially toward the anterior end of the parachordal cartilage to enclose the hyomandibular  ( facial )  foramen .
syndesmosis that connects the posterior lateral edge of the epiotic to the posttemporal .
canal where the carotid artery enters the cranium .
syndesmosis that connects the anterior edge epiotic to the parietal .
foramen that has the exoccipital as the anterior and dorsal rim .
foramen in the exoccipital through which the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cranial nerve ix )  passes .
foramen in the exoccipital through which the vagus nerve  ( cranial nerve x )  passes .
chamber  in the prootic where the trunks of the trigeminal facial nerve complex pass from the brain to the outside of the cranium .
longitudinal unpaired muscle that attaches to the base of the  most posterior ray of the anal fin  ( usually ray 14 )  and runs posteriorly into he hypaxial musculature of the caudal fin .
longitudinal muscle that on the anterior end is  continuous with the retractor ischii and on the posterior end inserts into the base of the first anal ray .
tissue that lies between the caudal artery and the caudal vein plexus where definitive hematopoiesis occurs after  48hpf and before the hematopoietic progenitors migrate to the thymus and kidney .
the initial growth point of the scale .
grooves on the scale radiating from the focus .
transient groove in the dorsal eye lined by basal lamina .
a medial cartilaginous spur that develops from the dorsomedial edge of the palatoquadrate .
skeletal tissue that is an extension of a skeletal element composed of  cartilage .
a protrusion of cartilage at the posteroventral tip of  meckel's cartilage that gives rise to the retroarticular .
cartilaginous protrusion on the posterodorsal region of meckel's cartilage .
thread - like fibrous aggregation of secreted molecules extending from the subcommissural organ  ( sco )  through the ventricular system and central canal to the end of the spinal cord .
neuronal tissue that is the arborization field for the majority of the ganglion cell axons ,   it also holds other incoming axons ,  for example ,  from the pretectum and the contralateral tectum ,  as well as the dendrites and axons of tectal interneurons and projection neurons .
region the larval brain that is a forerunner of  the adult central and superficial pretectal regions .
region that gives rise to various caudal tubercular structures in the preglomerular region this region is non ventricular neural proliferation zone and doesn't express gaba .
portion of tissue that is presumed to give rise to the  entopenduncular nucleus .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lateral nucleus of the ventral telencephalon .
pouch at the end of the endolymphatic duct that helps regulates pressure on the inner ear .
organism substance that is the output of the nephron .
iridophore layer of iris composed of a outer layer of regularly tiled  iridophores and an inner layer of randomly arranged iridophores .
layer of melanophores that are positioned behind the argenta .
iridophore layer that forms along the dorsal region of the poster segment of the eye .
brain structure that lies perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the embryonic neural tube ,  is continuous with the rostral hypothalamic proliferation and whose most lateral extent is deflected dorsally within the inferior lobe .
portion of tissue that is a patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium in the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
early - forming telencephalic neural cluster .neurons of the dorso - rostral cluster  ( drc )  extend axons to form the supra - optic tract  ( sot )  and the anterior commissure  ( ac )  .
early - forming neural cluster located in the rostral diencephalon .
early - forming neural cluster of the ventral midbrain .
early - developing neuronal cluster of the epiphysis .
hemal prezygapophyses are paired ,  anteromedially directed processes arising from the bases of hemal arches ,  ligamentously joined to the hemal postzygapophyses of the preceding vertebra .
surface structure that is one of the fleshy folds surrounding the opening of the mouth .
is a mandibular muscle that attaches to meckel's cartilage and functions during jaw closing .
a portion of tissue which is a fasciculated group of axons .
part of the forebrain that is ventral to the ventral thalamus and dorsal to the preoptic area .
part of cranial nerve x .
in the adult bilaterally paired compact tract located lateral to the medial forebrain bundle that extends to the diencephalon .
non neural ectoderm that surrounds the presumptive neural plate and gives rise to neurogenic placodes .
rostral portion of embryonic tissue that gives rise to the anterior neural plate .
caudal portion of embryonic tissue that gives rise to the posterior neural plate .
rostral portion of the neural plate .
posterior portion of the neural plate  that gives rise to the posterior neural keel .
anterior portion of anterior neural plate that gives rise to the forebrain neural keel .
portion of  neural plate that gives rise to the midbrain neural keel .
portion of anterior neural plate that gives rise to the forebrain midbrain boundary neural keel .
portion of the posterior neural plate that gives rise to the spinal cord neural keel .
portion of posterior neural plate  that gives rise to the hindbrain neural keel .
posterior portion of the neural keel that gives rise to the posterior neural rod .
rostral portion of the neural keel .
portion of  neural keel that gives rise to the midbrain neural rod .
anterior portion of anterior neural keel that gives rise to the forebrain neural rod .
portion of anterior neural keel that gives rise to the forebrain midbrain boundary neural rod .
portion of the posterior neural keel that gives rise to the spinal cord neural rod .
portion of posterior neural keel that gives rise to the hindbrain neural rod .
posterior portion of the neural rod that gives rise to the posterior neural tube .
rostral portion of the neural rod .
portion of  neural rod  that gives rise to the midbrain neural tube .
portion of anterior neural rod that gives rise to the forebrain midbrain boundary neural tube .
anterior portion of anterior neural rod that gives rise to the forebrain neural tube .
portion of the posterior neural rod that gives rise to the spinal cord neural tube .
portion of posterior neural rod that gives rise to the hindbrain neural tube .
posterior portion of the neural tube that gives rise to the hindbrain and spinal cord .
rostral portion of the neural tube .
portion of  neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
portion of anterior neural tube that gives rise to the forebrain midbrain boundary .
anterior portion of anterior neural rod that gives rise to the forebrain .
portion of the posterior neural tube that gives rise to the spinal cord .
portion of posterior neural tube that gives rise to the hindbrain .
portion of neural plate that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary neural keel .
portion of neural keel that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary neural rod .
portion of neural rod that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary neural tube .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
is a mandibular muscle that attaches meckel's cartilage to the basihyal cartilage and functions in jaw opening .
is a mandibular muscle that forms along the palatoquadrates and inserts on meckel's cartilages and functions in jaw closing .
dorsal subdivision of the putative mandibular muscle plate .
is a ventral paired hyoid muscle that has attachment sites on the basihyal and the posterior end of the ceratohyals and functions in jaw opening .
is a ventral , paired hyoid muscle that inserts at the most anterior basibranchial and also at the posterior ends of the ceratohyals and functions in jaw closure .
is a dorsal ,  paired hyoid muscle that attaches to the dorsomedial faces of the hyosymplectics .
pillar of the semicircular canal around whose perimeter runs the anterior semicircular canal .
pillar of the semicircular canal around whose perimeter runs the lateral semicircular canal .
pillar of the semicircular canal around whose perimeter runs the posterior semicircular canal .
blood vessel within the eye .
multi - tissue structure that is the dorsal - most aspect of the developing neural tube .
portion of tissue fated to develop into neurogenic placode .
neurogenic field fated to develop into a dorsolateral placode .
neurogenic field fated to develop into an epibranchial placode .
neurogenic field fated to develop into the olfactory placode .
cranial neural crest that is part of the hindbrain .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the hyoid arch .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglion .
is an epithelium of the auditory apparatus .
is an otic epithelium composed of cells with a squamous morphology .
is an otic epithelium that is a neuroepithelium which is pseudostratified and senses sound .
is a portion of tissue that is the most anterior portion of the notochord .
is a multitissue structure that accumulates blood .
an enlarged chamber in the blood sinus capable of accumulating a large volume of blood .
is a three - chambered blood sinus found at the base of the maxillary barbel .
is a multi - tissue structure forming the smallest chamber of the maxillary barbel blood sinus .
is a multi - tissue structure that is located outside the maxillary barbel proper and is positioned on the lateral surface of the maxilla ,  medially attached to the lateral surface of the maxillary bone and is laterally is attached to a hemispheric capsule of dense connective tissue of the distal bulb .
is a multi - tissue structure part of the maxillary barbel blood sinus which is connected to the central chamber of the maxillary blood sinus by a slight isthmus .
a blind end lymph vessel that emerges from the maxilla ,  wraps around the sinus isthmus ,  then runs alongside the distal bulb to enter the barbel shaft proper .
blood vessel that emerges from the maxilla ,  wraps around the sinus isthmus ,  then runs alongside the distal bulb to enter the barbel shaft proper .
is a vasculature that delivers fluid to the maxillary barbel .
is a vascular plexus at the base ,  or proximal end ,  of the developing maxillary barbel .
region of the neural plate that will give rise to the neural crest .
premigratory neural crest population that develops from the neural plate border .
cell that is part of the premigratory neural crest population .
migratory neural crest population that develops from premigratory neural crest .
cell that is part of the migratory neural crest population .
migratory cranial neural crest population that develops from premigratory cranial neural crest .
premigratory cranial neural crest population that develops from the neural plate border .
a cell of the embryo .
cell that is part of the premigratory cranial neural crest population .
cell that is part of the migratory cranial neural crest population .
premigratory trunk neural crest population that develops from the neural plate border .
migratory trunk neural crest population that develops from premigratory trunk neural crest .
cell that is part of the premigratory trunk neural crest population .
cell that is part of the migratory trunk neural crest population .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 12 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 13 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 14 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 15 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 16 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 17 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 18 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 19 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 20 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 21 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 22 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 23 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 24 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 25 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 26 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 27 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 28 .
vertebra that is posteriorly adjacent to vertebra 29 .
an anatomical structure that is an opening or tube that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
an anatomical cluster composed of the heart and associated structures .
an anatomical cluster composed of the organs of the  pleuroperitoneal cavity and associated structures .
joint between meckel's cartilage and palatoquadrate cartilage .
the vertebral body end plate is part of the autocentrum .
ligament that connects adjacent vertebra .
spinal cord interneuron located along the central canal that extends a microvilliated apical process into the cerebrospinal fluid and extends ascending axonal projections ventrally and ipsilaterally .
a cerebrospinal fluid contacting neuron that originates form p3 progenitor domain .
a stem cell that gives rise to several epidermal cell types ,  including ionocytes and keratinocytes .
a cell that will become an ionocyte .
a cell that will become a keratinocyte .
a portion of tissue that is the deepest point of the fold of the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
an embryonic cell that is formed before the germ layers have been formed .
a cell of the cranial neural crest .
a cell of the trunk neural crest .
a male germ cell that develops from spermatogonia .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
an euploid male germ cell of an early stage of spermatogenesis .
a stem cell from which all cells of the lymphoid and myeloid lineages develop ,  including blood cells and cells of the immune system .
a progenitor cell committed to the erythroid lineage .
a cell that is within the developmental lineage of gametes and is able to pass along its genetic material to offspring .
a myeloid progenitor cell committed to the monocyte lineage .
a myeloblast committed to the neutrophil lineage .
a stem cell that can give rise to mulitple lineages of cells .
a progenitor cell committed to myeloid lineage ,  including the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a progenitor cell committed to the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
an oligopotent progenitor cell committed to the lymphoid lineage .
a stem cell from which all cells of the body can form .
an embryonic  ( precursor )  cell of the myogenic lineage that develops from the mesoderm .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
skeletogenic cell that is typically non - terminally differentiated ,  secretes an avascular ,  gag rich matrix ;  is not buried in cartilage tissue matrix ,  retains the ability to divide ,  located adjacent to cartilage tissue  ( including within the perichondrium )  .
a cylindrical epithelial cell in the innermost layer of the enamel organ .
skeletogenic cell that  secretes dentine matrix ,  is derived from the tooth pulp .
a cell of ectomesenchymal origin concerned with the formation of the layer of cementum on the roots of teeth .
a bone - forming cell which secretes an extracellular matrix .
a neurectoderm derived cell that lines the neural lumen .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a cell which moves among different tissues of the body ,  via blood ,  lymph ,  or other medium .
a cell found predominately in the blood .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
a specialized phagocytic cell associated with the absorption and removal of the mineralized matrix of bone tissue ,  which typically differentiates from monocytes .
a leukocyte with abundant granules in the cytoplasm .
a fully differentiated neutrophil ,  a granular leukocyte having a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
most generally any neuron which is not motor or sensory .
an efferent neuron that passes from the central nervous system or a ganglion toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes movement .
a type of interneuron that has two neurites ,  usually an axon and a dendrite ,  extending from opposite poles of an ovoid cell body .
a neuron that uses acetylcholine as a vesicular neurotransmitter .
a vertebrate phagocyte with a single nucleus .
pioneer neurons establish a pathway in the developing central nervous system and then undergo programmed cell death once the adult axons ,  which follow them ,  have made connections with the target site .
the output neuron of the cerebellar cortex .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system  -  the largest and most numerous neuroglial cells in the brain and spinal cord .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system .
a central nervous system macrophage found in the parenchyma of the central nervous system .
cell of the single layer of large flattened cells covering the surface of the cornea .
a cell that normally gives rise to other cells that are organized as three - dimensional masses ,  rather than sheets .
a fat - storing cell found mostly in the abdominal cavity and subcutaneous tissue of mammals .
a mature osteoblast that has become embedded in the bone matrix .
polymorphic cell that form cartilage .
skeletogenic cell that produces enamel ,  overlies the odontogenic papilla ,  and arises from the differentiation of a preameloblast cell .
an osteocytelike cell with numerous processes ,  trapped in a lacuna in the cement of the tooth .
a cell capable of processing and presenting lipid and protein antigens to t cells in order to initiate an immune response .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a cell of an exocrine gland ,  i .e .
a cell of the epithelial lining that produce and secrete mucins .
a cell of an endocrine gland ,  ductless glands that secrete substances which are released directly into the circulation and which influence metabolism and other body functions .
an endocrine cell that is located in the epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a neuron that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones ,  and that constitutes ,  in whole or in part ,  an endocrine organ or system .
a cell that stores epinephrine secretory vesicles .
a leydig cell is a testosterone - secreting cell in the interstitial area ,  between the seminiferous tubules ,  in the testis .
the main structural component of the liver .
an elongated ,  contractile cell found wrapped about precapillary arterioles outside the basement membrane .
a mature contractile cell ,  commonly known as a myocyte ,  that forms one of three kinds of muscle .
a muscle cell that is small ,  darkly colored ,  with high lipid and mitochondrial content .
a muscle cell that has a fast contractile response .
a non - striated ,  elongated ,  spindle - shaped cell found lining the digestive tract ,  uterus ,  and blood vessels .
the peripheral receptor for pain .
a cell specialized to transduce mechanical stimuli and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
a mechanoreceptor cell located in the inner ear that is sensitive to auditory stimuli .
a cellular receptor which mediates the sense of temperature .
a cell specialized to detect chemical substances and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
a cell specialized to detect and transduce light .
a cell whose function is determined by the generation or the reception of an electric signal .
a cell that takes up and metabolizes substances .
a cell within an epithelial cell sheet whose main function is to act as an internal or external covering for a tissue or an organism .
a cell whose primary function is to prevent the transport of stuff across compartments .
a supporting cell projecting inward from the basement membrane of seminiferous tubules .
a neuroglial cell of the peripheral nervous system which forms the insulating myelin sheaths of peripheral axons .
a cell that moves by its own activities .
a cell of the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell of the middle germ layer of the embryo .
a cell of the inner of the three germ layers of the embryo .
any cell capable of ingesting particulate matter via phagocytosis .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of an immunoglobulin complex .
a modified epidermal cell located in the stratum basale .
a non - neuronal cells of the nervous system .
is a hindbrain interneuron .giant reticulospinal neurons possessing thick crossed axons and positioned dorsally in the hindbrain tegmentum at the level of entrance of the eighth cranial nerve .
primary sensory neurons with cell bodies located in the dorsal spinal cord ,  that innervate the integument of the trunk and tail at early larval stages .
an acidophilic cell of the anterior pituitary that produces growth hormone ,  somatotropin .
a mature sexual reproductive cell having a single set of unpaired chromosomes .
an epidermal cell which synthesizes keratin and undergoes a characteristic change as it moves upward from the basal layers of the epidermis to the cornified  ( horny )  layer of the skin .
a cell of the neural crest .
a cell of the sclera of the eye .
a cell of the choroid of the eye .
an undifferentiated cell produced by early cleavages of the fertilized egg  ( zygote )  .
a cell of the embryo in the early stage following the blastula ,  characterized by morphogenetic cell movements ,  cell differentiation ,  and the formation of the three germ layers .
a cell found in the outermost layer of the organism .
a cell whose function is determined by its response to an electric signal .
interneuron that is part of the central nervous system .
a cell that initiates an electrical signal and passes that signal to another cell .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
an acidophilic cell of the anterior pituitary that produces prolactin .
a cell of the intermediate pituitary that produces melanocyte stimulating hormone .
a cell of hematopoietic origin ,  typically resident in particular tissues ,  specialized in the uptake ,  processing ,  and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via t cell activation .
a cell capable of producting norepinephrine .
a basophil cell of the anterior pituitary that produces adrenocorticotropic hormone ,  or corticotropin .
a basophil cell of the anterior pituitary that produces thyroid stimulating hormone ,  thyrotrophin .
a connective tissue cell of an organ found in the loose connective tissue .
a supporting cell for the developing female gamete in the ovary of mammals .
a cell found throughout the gastrointestinal tract and in the pancreas .
a flattened stroma cell forming a sheath or theca outside the basal lamina lining the mature ovarian follicle .
a precursor cell destined to differentiate into cardiac myocytes .
a precursor cell destined to differentiate into smooth muscle myocytes .
a myoblast that differentiates into skeletal muscle fibers .
a non - neuronal cell that surrounds the neuronal cell bodies of the ganglia .
a neuron which conveys sensory information centrally from the periphery .
a neuron which sends impulses peripherally to activate muscles or secretory cells .
a nerve cell where transmission is mediated by nitric oxide .
a primary motor neuron part of the spinal cord .
motor neurons that arise during the first day of development .
motor neurons that develop several hours later than primary motoneurons and sprout axons several hours after the primary motor growth cones have extended to the periphery .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a pigment cell .
a cell of the b cell ,  t cell ,  or natural killer cell lineage .
a progenitor cell committed to the granulocyte and monocyte lineages .
an immature erythrocyte showing a basophilic reticulum under vital staining .
a precursor in the monocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between the monoblast and monocyte .
a late neutrophilic metamyelocyte in which the nucleus is in the form of a curved or coiled band ,  not having acquired the typical multilobar shape of the mature neutrophil .
interneuron of the vertebrate retina .
an erythrocyte having a nucleus .
a neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myeloblast and myelocyte ,  and containing a few ,  as yet undifferentiated ,  cytoplasmic granules .
a mesenchymal cell found in the developing heart .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
one of the two photoreceptor cell types in the vertebrate retina .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages ,  osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells .
a neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a promyelocyte and a metamyelocyte ;  in this stage ,  differentiation of cytoplasmic granules has begun .
a macrophage resident in the peritoneum under non - inlfammatory conditions .
a neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myelocyte and the band form neutrophil .
an epithelial cell that has its apical plasma membrane folded into microvilli to provide ample surface for the absorption of nutrients from the intestinal lumen .
a specialized osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of cementum .
an elongated ,  spindle - shaped ,  quiescent myoblast lying in close contact with adult skeletal muscle .
a projection neuron in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus .
a receptor in the vascular system ,  particularly the aorta and carotid sinus ,  which is sensitive to stretch of the vessel walls .
one of the two photoreceptor cell types of the vertebrate retina .
a neuron that uses gaba as a vesicular neurotransmitter .
a secretory cell that is grouped together with other cells of the same type to form grape shaped clusters known as acini  ( singular acinus )  .
a lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells .
a cell that is found in the perisinusoidal space of the liver that is capable of multiple roles including storage of retinol ,  presentation of antigen to t cells  ( including cd1d - restricted nkt cells )  ,  and upon activation ,  production of extracellular matrix components that can contribute to liver fibrosis .
glial cell of the retina that forms a support structure stretching radially across the thickness of the retina .
a supportive cell of the vertebrate pituitary that provides macromolecular transport and secretes hormones .
a primordial germ cell is a diploid germ cell precursors that transiently exist in the embryo before they enter into close association with the somatic cells of the gonad and become irreversibly committed as germ cells .
cell of the intestinal epithelium with a brush border made up of many parallel packed microvilli ;  associated with absorption ,  particularly of macromolecules .
a transient cell present only in the developing cns .
an absorptive cell of the mammalian gut epithelium that endocytoses microorganisms and intact macromolecules from the gut lumen and transports them to the subepithelial space where they are presented to antigen - presenting cells and lymphocytes .
a cell that transports hormones from neurosecretory cells .
a fibroblast - like cell that provides support at neuromuscular junctions in vertebrates and are localized outside the synaptic basal lamina .
a neuroglial cell of the peripheral nervous system inside the basal lamina of the neuromuscular junction providing chemical and physical support to the synapse .
a stellate interneuron having 7 - 10 dendrites that may branch .
one of a transient population of pioneering neurons in the cerebral cortex .
a neuron that releases dopamine as a neurotransmitter .
cell that provides some or all mechanical ,  nutritional and phagocytic support to their neighbors .
a specialized endothelial cell that senses extracellular signals and guides the directed growth of blood vessels .
specialized ependymal cell that produces the cerebrospinal fluid from the blood and secretes it into the lumen of the brain and spinal chord .
stromal cell that forms the internal covering of the vertebrate brain and produces ecm for this and the choroid plexus .
a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
a cell of a layer of transitional epithelium in the wall of the bladder ,  ureter ,  and renal pelvis ,  external to the lamina propria .
an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages ,  found in blood or other tissue .
the set of neurons that receives neural inputs via bipolar ,  horizontal and amacrine cells .
a motor neuron that is located in the cervical region of the spinal cord and selectively innervates the sternocleidmastoid or trapezius muscle .
a round chondrocyte that first differentiates in the late embryonic growth plate of bone .
a terminally differentiated chondrocyte that differentiates in the late embryonic growth plate of bone .
a columnar chondrocyte that differentiates in the late embryonic growth plate of bone .
a neuron that laterally connects other neurons in the inner nuclear layer of the retina .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with photoreceptors cells and neurons in the inner plexiform layer .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with photoreceptors cells and neurons in the inner half of the inner plexiform layer .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with photoreceptors cells and neurons in the outer half of the inner plexiform layer .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with rod photoreceptor cells and neurons in the inner plexiform layer .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptor cells and neurons in the inner plexiform layer .
a nucleated blood cell involved in coagulation ,  typically seen in birds and other non - mammalian vertebrates .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  mast cell ,  megakaryocyte ,  or erythroid lineage .
a immature or mature cell in the lineage leading to and including erythrocytes .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  or mast cell lineage .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
any of the immature forms of a neutrophil in which neutrophilic specific granules are present but other phenotypic features of the mature form may be lacking .
a specialized mononuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of bone ,  precursor of multinuclear osteoclasts .
a specialized mononuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of cementum .
a b cell that is mature ,  having left the bone marrow .
a terminally differentiated ,  post - mitotic ,  antibody secreting cell of the b cell lineage with the phenotype cd138 - positive ,  surface immunonoglobulin - negative ,  and mhc class ii - negative .
a memory b cell is a mature b cell that is long - lived ,  readily activated upon re - encounter of its antigenic determinant ,  and has been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
a naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  cd27 - negative ,  and cd38 - negative ,  and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor complex .
a t cell that expresses a gamma - delta t cell receptor complex .
a gamma - delta t cell that has an immature phenotype .
a gamma - delta t cell that has a mature phenotype .
a gamma - delta t cell of the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a distinctly differentiated long - lived t cell that has the phenotype cd45ro - positive and cd127 - positive .
an immature b cell is a precursor b cell that has the phenotype surface igm - positive and surface igd - negative ,  and have not undergone class immunoglobulin class switching or peripheral encounter with antigen and activation .
a precursor b cell is a b cell with the phenotype cd10 - positive .
an immature b cell of an intermediate stage between the pre - b cell stage and the mature nave stage .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally immature ,  has the phenotype cd34 - negative ,  cd117 - positive ,  cd122 - positive ,  and cd161 - positive ,  and expresses additional natural killer cell receptors  ( nkr )  .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally mature ,  has the phenotype cd16 - positive ,  and expresses a variety of inhibitory and activating receptors that recognize nhc class i and other stress related molecules .
a progenitor committed to the natural killer cell lineage ,  expressing certain phenotypic markers of the natural killer cell lineage such as the il - 15 receptor ,  but lacking many of the phenotypic characteristics of later stages of natural killer cell development such as expression of nk activating and inhibitory molecules .
a progenitor cell of the b cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific activity such as early stages of recombination of b cell receptor genes ,  but not yet fully committed to the b cell lineage until the expression of pax5 occurs .
a progenitor cell of the t cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific marker expression ,  but not yet fully committed to the t cell lineage .
a progenitor cell of the thrombocyte ,  a nucleated blood cell involved in coagulation typically seen in birds and other non - mammalian vertebrates .
a progenitor cell of the neutrophil lineage .
the most primitive precursor in the granulocytic series ,  having fine ,  evenly distributed chromatin ,  several nucleoli ,  and a nongranular basophilic cytoplasm .
a hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell is multipotent ,  but not capable of long - term self - renewal .
a progenitor cell restricted to the lymphoid lineage .
a progenitor cell restricted to the myeloid lineage .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
an olfactory receptor cell in which the apical ending of the dendrite is a pronounced ciliated olfactory knob .
an olfactory receptor cell in which the apical ending of the dendrite is a knob that bears numerous microvilli .
an olfactory receptor cell with short cilia growing in an invagination bordered by microvilli .
a neuron that releases serotonin as a neurotransmitter .
neuromast mantle cell is a non - sensory cell .
neuromast support cell is a non - sensory cell of the neuromast that extend between the sensory hair cells from the basement membrane to the apical surface ;  neuromast support cells are surrounded by neuromast mantle cells .
olfactory epithelial support cell is a non ciliated columnar cell that extends from the epithelial free margin to the basement membrane of the olfactory epithelium .
interneuromast cell is a neuroectodermal cell deposited by the migrating lateral line primordium between the neuromasts .
hair cell is a mechanoreceptor cell that is sensitive to movement of the hair - like projections  ( stereocilia and kinocilia )  which relay the information centrally in the nervous system .
neuromast hair cell is a hair cell that acts as a sensory receptor of the neuromast ;  it is morphologically polarized as a result of the relative position of the single kinocilium and the clusters of stereocilia on its apical surface .
a skeletal muscle myoblast that differentiates into slow muscle fibers .
a skeletal muscle myoblast that differentiates into fast muscle fibers .
epithelial cell part of duct .
an epithelial cell of the kidney .
a cuboidal epithelial cell of the kidney that regulates acid / base balance .
a cuboidal epithelial cell of the kidney which secretes acid and reabsorbs base to regulate acid / base balance .
an epithelial cell of the intrahepatic portion of the bile duct .
epithelial cell found in the ducts of the pancreas .
an epithelial cell derived from endoderm .
epithelial cells derived from neural plate and neural crest .
an epithelial cell derived from ectoderm .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
a cell whose primary function is to support other cell types .
epithelial cell derived from mesoderm or mesenchyme .
cell that is part of the kidney .
a cell of the supporting or framework tissue of the body ,  arising chiefly from the embryonic mesoderm and including adipose tissue ,  cartilage ,  and bone .
lymphatic progenitor cells .
mesenchymal derived lymphatic progenitor cells that give rise to the superficial lymphatics .
lymphatic progenitor cells ,  derived from the veins ,  that give rise to lymphatic endothelial cells .
the neurons that utilize glycine as a neurotransmitter .
an epithelial cell that is part of the bile duct .
multi fate stem cell that gives rise to both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes as descendants .
an epithelial cell of the intestine .
an epithelial cell of the esophagus .
a  vertebrate lens cell that is any of the elongated ,  tightly packed cells that make up the bulk of the mature lens in a camera - type eye .
c existence starts during s iff start_of ( c )  part_of s .
