a planned process that has specified output a software product and that involves the creation of source code .
a planned process that has a data set as its specified output .
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
an independent material continuant that is self - connected and retains its identity over time .
a piece of apparatus that is used to measure a physical quantity .
measurement of the dose of a substance taken up by an object .
a sensor that is used to measure the dose of a substance taken by up an object .
an anthropogenic geographic feature is a geographic feature resulting from the influence of human beings on nature .
a geographical feature associated with water .
a marine water body which is constitutes the majority of an astronomical body's hydrosphere .
a large expanse of saline water usually connected with an ocean .
a geographical feature associated with water with a halinity above 30 ppt  ( roughly 35 g / l )  .
a lake whose water contains a considerable concentration of dissolved salts .
a body of water or other liquid of considerable size contained in a depression on a landmass .
an accumulation of water of varying size .
a region rendered barren or partially barren by environmental extremes ,  especially by low rainfall .
a depression which has been formed as a result of erosion by water or ice and which is low - lying ,  bordered by higher ground ,  and especially elongate .
a hydrographic feature characterized by the dominance of snow or ice .
soil or rock and included ice or organic material at or below the freezing point of water  ( 0 degrees celsius or 32 degrees fahrenheit )  for two or more years .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of solid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
broken rock that appears at the bottom of crags ,  mountain cliffs or valley shoulders .
a valley that contains ,  or contained ,  a glacier and was formed by glacial activity .
a landform sunken or depressed below the surrounding area .
an abiotic  mesoscopic feature made of the mineral material of the crust of the earth .
a biome is an ecosystem to which resident ecological communities have evolved adaptations .
a biome which is  primarily or completely situated on a landmass .
an aquatic biome which is determined by a marine water body .
a rock is a naturally occurring solid aggregate of one or more minerals or mineraloids .
soil is an environmental material which is primarily composed of minerals ,  varying proportions of sand ,  silt ,  and clay ,  organic material such as humus ,  gases ,  liquids ,  and a broad range of resident micro -  and macroorganisms .
a significant accumulation of water which is part of a marine biome .
a solid astronomical body part which is part of the planetary surface between the peak of an elevation or the bottom of a depression and  relatively flat surrounding land .
the mixture of gases  ( roughly  ( by molar content / volume: 78% nitrogen ,  20 .95% oxygen ,  0 .93% argon ,  0 .038% carbon dioxide ,  trace amounts of other gases ,  and a variable amount  ( average around 1% )  of water vapor )  that surrounds the planet earth .
an environmental material primarily composed of dihydrogen oxide in its liquid form .
sediment is an environmental substance comprised of any particulate matter that can be transported by fluid flow and which eventually is deposited as a layer of solid particles on the bedor bottom of a body of water or other liquid .
water which contains a significant concentration of dissolved salts .
a biome which is determined by a water body and which has ecological climax communities adapted to life in or on water .
sediment which has increased levels of one or more chemical compounds .
water which has physicochemical properties that have been determined by the processes occuring in a sea or ocean .
chemically - enriched sediment which has increased levels of organic compounds .
chemically - enriched sediment which has increased levels of inorganic compounds .
a group of hydrous aluminium phyllosilicate  ( phyllosilicates being a subgroup of silicate minerals )  minerals  ( see clay minerals )  ,  that are typically less than 2 micrometres in diameter .
a material entity that has been processed by humans or their technology in any way ,  including intermediate products as well as final products .
a portion of enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of some material entity .
sand which is part of a desert .
a portion of environmental material is a fiat object part which forms the medium or part of the medium of an environmental system .
a layer of some material entity which is adjacent to one or more of its external boundaries and directly interacts with its immediate surroundings .
airborne solid particles  ( also called dust or particulate matter  ( pm )  )  or liquid droplets .
anthropogenic material in or on which organisms may live .
silt is granular material of a size somewhere between sand and clay whose mineral origin is quartz and feldspar .
a naturally occurring granular material composed of finely divided rock and mineral particles .
the marine pelagic biome  ( pelagic meaning open sea )  is that of the marine water column ,  from the surface to the greatest depths .
the neritic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column above a continental shelf .
the oceanic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column offshore ,  beyond a continental shelf .
the oceanic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of the marine surface waters occurring offshore ,  away from a continental shelf .
the neritic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of marine surface waters occurring above a continental shelf .
a prominent or distinctive aspect ,  quality ,  or characteristic of environments occurring within the marine water column .
a marine biome which is determined by an ocean .
particulate material is an environmental material which is composed of microscopic portions of solid or liquid material suspended in another environmental material .
environmental material derived from living organisms and composed primarily of one or more biomacromolecules .
a shrubland biome is a terrestrial biome which includes ,  across its entire spatial extent ,  dense groups of shrubs .
a desert biome is a terrestrial biome which loses more liquid water by evapotranspiration than is supplied by precipitation and includes communities adapted to these conditions .
an environmental condition is a range of a determinate quality or combination of qualities that are present in an environmental system .
a montane shrubland biome is a shrubland biome which occurs in regions elevated above sea level and which has community structure determined by elevation - dependent environmental conditions .
an anthropogenic terrestrial biome is a terrestrial biome which has community structures determined by human activity .
an environmental condition in which annual precipitation is less than half of annual potential evapotranspiration .
a system which has the disposition to environ one or more material entities .
a mineral material is an environmental material which is primarily composed of some substance that is naturally occurring ,  solid and stable at room temperature ,  representable by a chemical formula ,  usually abiogenic ,  and that has an ordered atomic structure .
water vapour is a vapour which is the gas phase of water .
an atmosphere is a layer of gases surrounding a material body of sufficient mass that is held in place by the gravity of the body .
atmospheric water vapour is water vapour that is part of an atmosphere .
a large unit of land or water containing a geographically distinct assemblage of species ,  natural communities ,  and environmental conditions .
ice is water frozen into a solid state .
ecozones delineate large areas of a planetary surface within which organisms have been evolving in relative isolation over long periods of time ,  separated from one another by geographic features ,  such as oceans ,  broad deserts ,  or high mountain ranges ,  that constitute barriers to migration .
a layer is a quantity of some material which is spatially continuous ,  has comparable thickness ,  and usually covers some surface .
a layer which is part of a lake .
a mass of water ice .
a layer that is part of a marine water body .
an endolithic environment is an environment that exists within solid rock .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by saline water .
an environment which has a lower temperature than some local or global average .
an anthropogenic environment is an environmental system which is the product of human activity .
a high osmolarity environment is an environment in which entities are exposed to high concentrations of solutes .
an environment whose dynamics are strongly influenced by water .
a rocky slope is a slope which has a surface primarily composed of rock .
a marine environment and enviroment which is determined by a marine water body .
an environmental system determined by seawater .
the atmospheric boundary layer is the lowest layer of an atmosphere which is strongly influenced by its contact with a planetary surface with strong vertical mixing and in which physical quantities such as flow velocity ,  temperature ,  and moisture display rapid fluctuations  ( turbulence )  .
a planetary surface is a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of a planet comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
a layer in a water mass ,  itself composed primarily of water .
a talus slope is a slope which has a surface layer composed of scree .
an altitudinal condition which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being located at an altitude between mid - altitude forests and the tree line .
an altitudinal condition is an environmental condition in which ranges of factors such as temperature ,  humidity ,  soil composition ,  solar irradiation ,  and tree density vary with ranges in altitude .
a layer which is determined by a form of vegetation .
snow is an environmental material which is primarily composed of flakes of crystalline water ice .
a site which has its extent determined by the presence or influence of one or more components of an environmental system or the processes occurring therein .
a layer that is part of the atmosphere .
a boundary layer is a layer of fluid in the immediate vicinity of a bounding surface where the effects of viscosity are significant enough to distort the surrounding non - viscous flow .
a lentic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  has very little to no directed flow .
hydrological condensation is a process in which atmospheric water vapour undergoes a phase transition from the gas phase to the liquid phase .
a landmass which is part of a planet .
outer space is a hard vacuum containing a low density of particles ,  predominantly a plasma of hydrogen and helium as well as electromagnetic radiation ,  magnetic fields ,  neutrinos ,  dust and cosmic rays that exists between celestial bodies .
a planetary crust is the outermost solid shell of a rocky planet or natural satellite ,  which is chemically distinct from the underlying mantle .
a planetary structural layer is laminar part of a terrestrial planet or other rocky body large enough to have differentiation by density .
a planetary mantle is a planetary layer which is an interior part of a terrestrial planet or other rocky body large enough to have differentiation by density .
a lithosphere is the outermost shell of a terrestrial - type planet or natural satellite that is defined by its rigid mechanical properties .
a mass of water .
a coast is the area where land meets the sea ,  ocean ,  or lake .
hydrological precipitation is a process during which any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapour is pulled to the planetary surface by gravity .
condensation is a process during which a gas undergoes a phase transition into a liquid .
an environmental system which can sustain and allow the growth of an ecological population .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily composed of bedrock ,  desert pavement ,  scarp rock ,  talus ,  material exposed by slides ,  volcanic material ,  glacial debris ,  sand ,  material exposed during strip mining ,  gravel ,  and other accumulations of earthen material in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of gaseous or aerosolised material held in shape by one or more environmental processes .
a material entity which is composed of one or more chemical entities and has neither independent shape nor volume but tends to expand indefinitely .
a material entity which is composed of a volume of unbound positive and negative particles in roughly equal numbers ,  conducts electricity ,  and possesses internal magnetic fields .
an object which is naturally occuring ,  bound together by gravitational or electromagnetic forces ,  and surrounded by space .
a planet is an astronomical body orbiting a star or stellar remnant that is massive enough to be rounded by its own gravity ,  is not massive enough to cause thermonuclear fusion ,  and has cleared its neighbouring region of planetesimals .
an astronomical object which is composed primarily of luminous plasma held in a spherical form by gravitational forces .
an object which is composed of one or more gravitationally bound structures that are associated with a position in space .
a material part of an astronomical body .
an environmental material which is in a solid state .
an environmental material which is in a liquid state .
a biosphere is a part of an astronomical body which includes ,  as parts ,  all the living entities within the gravitational sphere of influence of that body ,  as well as the non - living and dead entities with which they interact .
a cryosphere is that part of a planet which is primarily composed of water is in solid form .
an astronomical body part which is composed of the combined mass of water found on ,  under ,  and over the surface of a planet .
an astronomical body part which is composed of soil ,  subject to soil formation processes ,  and found on the surface of a lithosphere .
a precipitation process is a process in which a portion of some substance segregates from a material in which that substance or its precursors were dissolved or suspended in and settles due to a force such as gravity or centrifugal force .
a hydrological process in which irregular aggregates of snow fall to a planetary surface .
an environmental system in which minimal to no anthropisation has occurred and non - human agents are the primary determinants of the system's dynamics and composition .
a process during which a natural environmental system is altered by human action .
a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals .
a process whereby a volume of liquid moves due to a disequilibrium of physical forces .
a process during which a volume of water is transported due to a disequilibria in physical forces .
a planned process during which raw or recycled materials are transformed into products for use or sale using labour and machines ,  tools ,  chemical and biological processing ,  or formulation .
an environmental system which is determined by materials bearing roughly homogeneous qualities .
an environmental system within which an environmental material strongly influences the system's composition and properties .
an environmental system which is determined by a living organism .
an environmental system determined by a green plant .
an environmental system determined by an animal .
a meteor is any matter -  or energy - based entity which is located in the atmosphere of an astronomical body .
a meteor which is primarily composed of water .
a meteor which is primarily composed of rock .
a lake which has formed as the result of processes that are not or are only minimally driven by human activity .
a process during which energy is emitted or transmitted in the form of waves or particles through space or a material medium .
a radiation process during which energy is transmitted or emitted by means of fast - moving subatomic particles .
a radiation process during which waves  ( or their quanta ,  photons )  of the electromagnetic field propagate  ( radiate )  through space carrying electromagnetic energy .
an environment which is determined by materials which bear significant concentrations of salts .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by soil .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by sediment .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a saline aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol with a low concentration of dissolved solutes .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead plant ,  or a whole small plant .
an astronomical body which is composed of rocky or metallic materials and is considerably smaller than asteroids .
a material which is composed primarily of one or more pure metals and which shows their properties .
a process during which microscopic solid or liquid objects are formed .
an aerosol formation process which occurs in an atmosphere .
a process during which an aerosol ,  consisting of solid particulates suspended in a gas ,  is formed in an atmosphere .
a process during which an aerosol ,  consisting of droplets of liquid suspended in gas ,  is formed in an atmosphere .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of liquid droplets .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of solid particles .
a process during which microscopic solid particulates are formed from gaseous materials in an atmosphere .
a process during which microscopic liquid droplets are formed from gaseous materials in an atmosphere .
an environmental system which includes both living and non - living components .
a planet which is primarily composed of hydrogen and helium .
an ice is an environmental material which is either frozen or which is maintained in a solid state by gravitational forces or pressure .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by water ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of water .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by ice ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of ice .
a gas planet which has an atmosphere composed primarily of helium .
a material which is composed primarily of chemical elements and compounds with relatively low boiling points ,  equilibrium condensation temperatures below 1300 kelvin ,  and which are part of the crust or atmosphere of a moon or planet .
an astrogeological volatile which is composed primarily of chemical compounds with boiling points around those of hydrogen and helium .
a quality which inheres in a astronomical body or astronomical body part by virtue of the variation in its material composition ,  participation in geological processes ,  and the variation in is land -  and hydroforms .
an environment which has its properties and composition largely determined by the presence of a metazoan which lacks a vetebral column and which has a habitat that is found in an aquatic environmental system .
the surface layer of a volume of water .
the surface layer of a mass of sediment .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a land mass or the atmosphere or space adjacent to it .
a terrestrial zone which is bounded by constructed ,  manufactured ,  or other anthropogenic material entities .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a marine environment .
an electromagnetic radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star .
a stellar radiation process during which penetrating electromagnetic radiation is emitted by high - energy electrons as they fall into a lower state of energy .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star with sufficient energy to disrupt molecular bonds or alter the electron number of atoms .
a natural environment which is located on a land mass .
a natural environment which is within a water body .
a layer which is primarily composed of some liquid material .
a layer which is primarily composed of some solid material ,  allowing for non - solid parts such as interstitial pockets of gas or liquid .
a solid layer which is primarily composed of some water - based ice .
an environmental zone which is part of an atmosphere .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid water held in shape or sustained by an environmental process .
a liquid surface layer which is in contact with air .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of some liquid .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of solid environmental material .
a body of water which is primarily composed of saline water .
a material transport process during which a volume of material is displaced due to a disequilibrium in physical forces and during which 1 )  the qualities that inhere in that volume and 2 )  the processes that are unfolding within it are largely unchanged .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one location on the surface of an astronomical body ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
a landform which has been rendered barren or partially barren by environmental extremes ,  especially by low rainfall .
a process during which particles suspended in a gaseous medium are formed .
a material transport process during which solid or liquid particles are directly introduced into a volume of gas .
a process during which an ecosystem  -  natural or anthropised  -  is changed by the actions of humans .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid or gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of an astronomical body comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
an electromagnetic radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a manufactured product .
a material transformation process during which a material's viscosity increase either through a reduction in temperature ,  through chemical reactions ,  or other physical effects .
land which is below the freezing point of water .
soil which is below the freezing point of water .
a material congelation process during which a liquid turns into a solid when its temperature is lowered below its melting point .
a freezing process during which liquid water is transformed into water ice .
a water surface that is part of a water body .
an ecoregion which is located on a landmass .
a surface layer of a water body which is part of an ocean or sea .
a layer which is part of a cryosphere .
permafrost which contains inclusions of water - based ice .
a material accumulation process during which the mass of snow on a surface increases .
a material accumulation process during which ice forms in an environmental material or an existing accumulation of ice increases in mass .
a material accumulation process during which a accumulation of snow and ice forms or increases in mass .
a object which is composed primarily of water - based snow and ice .
a process during which microscopic solid particulates are formed from liquid materials in an atmosphere .
that part of an atmosphere which is composed of gaseous material .
a solid material which does not have a regularly organised internal structure .
an aerosol that is suspended in an atmosphere .
a material transformation process during which solid or liquid particles form and are suspended in a mass of air ,  thus creating an aerosol .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of some liquid or gas .
a surface layer which separates two portions of fluid with respect to either 1 )  a discontinuity of some fluid property or 2 )  some derivative of one of these properties in a direction normal to the interface .
a layer which is composed primarily of some fluid .
a fluid interface which separates two fluid masses with differing properties .
a fluid front which is composed primarily of gaseous material and separates at least two gaseous masses .
a gaseous front which separates two masses of air with different densities and is a principal cause of meteorological phenomena .
an object which is composed of a continuous mass of air .
a fluid surface layer which is composed primarily of some gaseous material .
a layer which separates two portions of environmental material which possess 1 )  differing compositions ,  2 )  a discontinuity of some property ,  or 3 )  some derivative of some property in a direction normal to the interface .
an object which is composed primarily of an environmental material
an object which is composed primarily of a solid environmental material
an object which is composed primarily of a fluid .
an object which is composed primarily of a gas .
an object which is composed primarily of a liquid .
an mass of environmental materials which has appreciable quantities of several individual materials ,  such that the removal of one would convert the mass into a different entity .
a weather front which separates air masses of tropical and polar origin .
an ecosystem in which the composition ,  structure ,  and function of resident ecological assemblages are primarily determined by a desert .
a solid astronomical body part which is part of the landmass of that body .
a large continuous area of land ,  either surrounded by sea or contiguous with another landmass .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous medium bearing liquid ,  gaseous ,  and solid material in varying quantities .
a surface layer of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of solid material and is not covered by oceans or other bodies of water .
an environmental process either driven by or primarily impacting the parts or emergent properties of an ecosystem .
an object which is formed as a result of one or more biological processes and is composed primarily of organic material .
a biome which is subject to montane altitudinal conditions .
a biome which is subject to arid environmental conditions .
a process during which one entity loses energy to another entity .
a material accumulation process during which the volume of liquid entity increases .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in air that is part of an atmosphere .
a liquid or a gas .
a process in which includes the components of an environmental system as participants .
a process which occurs within an atmosphere .
an environmental process which is driven by the action of humans .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one part of a planet's crust ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
an environmental process which has water  -  in any of its states  -  as a participant .
a process during which the mass of one or more materials ,  present within a given site ,  increases .
a process during which material is displaced from its original location and transported either to a new location or back to the original location .
a depression which is part of a planetary crust ,  is of geographic scale ,  and is partially or completely enclosed .
sediment which has been transported through the marine water column ,  settling on the seafloor .
a material accumulation process during which solid particles are pulled through a water body by gravitation or centrifugal force and which ends when they settle on a solid surface .
a process during which a portion of some environmental material is converted into a different material or a collection of materials .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous mass of snow and / or ice .
a mass of snow .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in soil .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in air .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in seawater .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of soil .
the temperature of some environmental material .
the temperature of some air .
the porosity of some soil .
the composition of some soil .
the structure of some soil .
the temperature of some soil .
the temperature of some water .
the composition of some water .
an environment which is determined by an anatomical entity .
a radiation process during which penetrating electromagnetic radiation is emitted by high - energy electrons as they fall into a lower state of energy .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted with sufficient energy to disrupt molecular bonds or alter the electron number of atoms .
the concentration of dioxygen when measured in liquid water .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
a measurement unit label is as a label that is part of a scalar measurement datum and denotes a unit of measure .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take .
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define  the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label
software is a plan specification composed of a series of instructions that can be  interpreted by or directly executed by a processing unit .
a quality of an information bearer that imparts the information content
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a dot plot is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where each data point is represented by a single dot placed on coordinates corresponding to data point values in particular dimensions .
a diagram that presents one or more tuples of information by mapping those tuples in to a two dimensional space in a non arbitrary way .
a plan specification which describes the inputs and output of mathematical functions as well as workflow of execution for achieving an predefined objective .
the curation status of the term .
a source code module is a directive information entity that specifies ,  using a programming language ,  some algorithm .
a data format specification is the information content borne by the document published defining the specification .
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
an image is an affine projection to a two dimensional surface ,  of measurements of some quality of an entity or entities repeated at regular intervals across a spatial range ,  where the measurements are represented as color and luminosity on the projected on surface .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
a material entity in which a concretization of an information content entity inheres .
a histogram is a report graph which is a statistical description of a distribution in terms of occurrence frequencies of different event classes .
a heatmap is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where the values taken by a variable ( s )  are shown as colors in a two - dimensional map .
a dendrogram is a report graph which is a tree diagram frequently used to illustrate the arrangement of the clusters produced by a clustering algorithm .
a scatterplot is a graph which uses cartesian coordinates to display values for two variables for a set of data .
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
an information content entity consisting of a two dimensional arrangement of information content entities such that the arrangement itself is about something .
a figure that expresses one or more propositions
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a regulatory role involved with making and / or enforcing relevant legislation and governmental orders
a role which inheres in material entities and is realized in the processes of making ,  enforcing or being defined by legislation or orders issued by a governmental body .
a role realized through the process of supplying materials such as animal subjects ,  reagents or other materials used in an investigation .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class prediction data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned class labels .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
a role borne by a material entity that is gained during a specimen collection process and that can be realized by use of the specimen in an investigation
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
a planned process in which data gathered in an investigation is evaluated in the context of existing knowledge with the objective to generate more general conclusions or to conclude that the data does not allow one to draw general conclusion
a regulatory agency is a organization that has responsibility over or for  the legislation  ( acts and regulations )  for a given sector of the government .
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
manufacturing is a process with the intent to produce a processed material which will have a function for future use .
is the objective to manufacture a material of a certain function  ( device ) 
manufacturer role is a role which inheres in a person or organization and which is realized by a manufacturing process .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class discovery data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned discovered class labels .
a planned process with the objective of collecting a specimen .
a class prediction data transformation  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class prediction .
a objective specification to obtain a material entity for potential use as an input during an investigation .
a support vector machine is a data transformation with a class prediction objective based on the construction of a separating hyperplane that maximizes the margin between two data sets of vectors in n - dimensional space .
a decision tree induction objective is a data transformation objective in which a tree - like graph of edges and nodes is created and from which the selection of each branch requires that some type of logical decision is made .
a decision tree building data transformation is a data transformation that has objective decision tree induction .
a software that provides access to more than 100 tools for gene expression analysis ,  proteomics ,  snp analysis and common data processing tasks .
peak matching is a data transformation performed on a dataset of a graph of ordered data points  ( e .g .
a k - nearest neighbors is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  in which an input data object with vector y is assigned to a class label based upon the k closest training data set points to y ;  where k is the largest value that class label is assigned .
a cart  ( classification and regression trees )  is a data transformation method for producing a classification or regression model with a tree - based structure .
a data transformation which assesses how the results of a statistical analysis will generalize to an independent data set .
a person or organization that has a manufacturer role
is a role which inheres in a person or organization and is realized in in a planned process which provides access to training ,  materials or execution of protocols for an organization or person
a specimen that has been intentionally physically modified .
a label that is part of a categorical datum and that indicates the value of the data item on the categorical scale .
a material entity that is designed to perform a function in a scientific investigation ,  but is not a reagent .
a measurement datum that measures the quantity of something that may be administered to an organism or that an organism may be exposed to .
a document with a set of printed or written questions with a choice of answers ,  devised for the purposes of a survey or statistical study .
an information content entity that is inferred from data .
a value specification that is specifies one category out of a fixed number of nominal categories
an information content entity that specifies a value within a classification scheme or on a quantitative scale .
a material entity that has two or more specimens as its parts .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a tumor slide specimen according to the american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  7th edition grading system .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a tumor slide specimen according to the fuhrman nuclear grading system .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a ovarian tumor .
a histologic grade for ovarian tumor that is from a two - tier histological classification of tumors .
a histologic grade for ovarian tumor that is from a histological classification by the world health organization  ( who )  .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colorectal cancer following the rules of the tnm american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  version 7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  version 7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colorectal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colon cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a  pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of the stage of a cancer according to the american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  v7 staging systems .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of the stage of a gynecologic cancer according to the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics  ( figo )  staging systems .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the figo classification system .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of a participant's performance status  ( general well - being and activities of daily life )  .
a performance status value specification designed by the eastern cooperative oncology group to assess disease progression and its affect on the daily living abilities of the patient .
a performance status value specification designed for classifying patients 16 years of age or older by their functional impairment .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
a planned process that produces output data from input data .
is a data transformation :  leave - one - out cross - validation  ( loocv )  involves using a single observation from the original sample as the validation data ,  and the remaining observations as the training data .
a k - means clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  which takes as input a collection of objects  ( represented as points in multidimensional space )  and which partitions them into a specified number k of clusters .
a hierarchical clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery objective ,  which takes as input data item and builds a hierarchy of clusters .
a dimensionality reduction is data partitioning which transforms each input m - dimensional vector  ( x_1 ,  x_2 ,   . . . ,  x_m )  into an output n - dimensional vector  ( y_1 ,  y_2 ,   . . . ,  y_n )  ,  where n is smaller than m .
a principal components analysis dimensionality reduction is a dimensionality reduction achieved by applying principal components analysis and by keeping low - order principal components and excluding higher - order ones .
an planned process that creates images ,  diagrams or animations from the input data .
an objective specification to transformation input data into output data
a partitioning data transformation is a data transformation that has objective partitioning .
a partitioning objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to generate a collection of disjoint non - empty subsets whose union equals a non - empty input set .
a class discovery data transformation  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class discovery .
a class discovery objective  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to organize input data   ( typically vectors of attributes )  into classes ,  where the number of classes and their specifications are not known a priori .
a class prediction objective  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to create a predictor from training data through a machine learning technique .
a cross validation objective is a data transformation objective in which the aim is to partition a sample of data into subsets such that the analysis is initially performed on a single subset ,  while the other subset ( s )  are retained for subsequent use in confirming and validating the initial analysis .
a data visualization which has input of a clustered data set and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to pressure ,  being broken ,  or pierced
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a hardness quality of being rigid and resistant to pressure .
a size quality which is relatively low .
an optical quality which obtains by virtue of the ability of the bearer to absorb visible light .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being clear ;  not transmitting or reflecting light or radiant energy .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to admit the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a physical quality of a liquid inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to internal resistance to flow .
a viscosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having viscosity .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably higher than its width .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a temperature which is relatively low .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack of distinct morphology .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking distinct structure .
a positional which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an oblique or slanted direction .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity characterized by particles arranged such that their shape and volume are relatively stable .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity consisting of particles that have neither a defined volume nor defined shape .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of osmoles of solute per liter of solution .
a osmolarity which is relatively high .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical distance of a point above or below a reference surface .
an elevation which is relatively low .
a viscosity which relatively high .
currently under discussion:  [ a general term referring to the relative biological effectiveness of the radiation of interest .
a radiation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of what the bearer receives as a result of being exposed to ionizing radiation .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing granules .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being kept below its freezing point .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing the form of a thin plate sheet or layer .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a behavioral quality inhering ina bearer by virtue of the bearer's unequal distribution of fine motor skill between its left and right hands or feet .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the left hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the right hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism exhibits no overall dominance in the use of right or left hand or foot in the performance of tasks that require one hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a material entity that consists of two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids .
a collection of organisms ,  all of the same species ,  that live in the same place .
a multi - species collection of organisms of at least two different species ,  living in a particular area .
a material entity that has as parts two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids of the same species and no members of any other species .
a collection of organisms that consists of two or more organisms from at least two species .
a material entity that is one or more organisms ,  viruses or viroids .
a plant structure  ( po:0005679 )  which is a whole organism .
a plant anatomical entity  ( po:0025131 )  that is ,  or was ,  part of a plant ,  or was derived from a part of a plant .
an anatomical entity that is or was part of a plant .
radiation classified by its origin
radiation originating outside the earth's atmosphere .
radiation produced on earth or on another planetary body by natural or artificial means .
material presenting ,  when irradiated ,  interaction properties similar to those of soft tissue .
an atomic nucleus with 26 protons and 30 neutrons
an atomic nucleus with 6 protons and 6 neutrons
an atomic nucleus with 14 protons and 14 neutrons
an atomic nucleus with 2 protons and 2 neutrons
an atomic nucleus with 10 protons and 10 neutrons
an atomic nucleus ,  variously defined as having 2 ,  3 ,  4 ,  5 ,  or 6 protons
a radiation measuring device which records dose at the time of detection ,  with data available in real time
a radiation measuring device which integrates the amount of radiation to which it is exposed .
the amount of radiation to which a member of the population on earth is exposed from natural sources ,  such as terrestrial radiation from naturally - occurring radionuclides in the soil ,  cosmic radiation originating in outer space ,  and naturally - occurring radionuclides in the soil ,  cosmic radiation originating in outer space ,  and naturally - occurring radionuclides deposited in the human body .
the sum of the equivalent doses to all organs in the body ,  each adjusted to account for the sensitivity of the organ to radiation .
the process of exposing the same sample to more than one type and / or energy of radiation ,  in sequence or simultaneously .
radiation classified by where the exposure to the radiation is occurring .
that part of the earth exposed to the earth atmosphere .
the region between the earth's surface and an altitude of approximately 100 km
the region between the earth's atmosphere and the innermost earth radiation belt
that part of outer space beyond the earth's radiation belts .
a radiation dose administered in multiple exposures at specified time intervals
a unit of absorbed dose equal to 1 / 1000 of a rad
the product of the mean absorbed dose in an organ or tissue and the radiation weighting factor  ( w_r  ) of the radiation type of interest
the absorbed radiation dose administered in a single one of a series comprising a fractionated radiation exposure
penetrating ionizing radiation ,  both particulate and electromagnetic ,  that originates in outer space
galactic cosmic radiation consists of high - energy charged particles originating from outside the solar system
solar cosmic radiation is high - energy charged particles that originate from the sun .
the measurement datum representing a dose to an organism or object per unit time .
devices ,  crewed and uncrewed ,  which are designed to be placed into  orbit about the earth or another celestial body or into a trajectory to another celestial body or location in space .
a self - contained unit of a spacecraft
a self - contained unit of the international space station .
a s spacecraft capable of supporting a human crew in orbit for an extended period of time .
the path leading from a particle accelerator to an experimental station used in experiments in particle physics ,  materials science ,  chemistry ,  and molecular biology ,  or in irradiation tests or to produce isotopes .
radiation produced by a particle accelerator .
radiation produced by a nuclear reactor .
high energy photons emitted during nuclear decay of the cesium - 137 isotope .
high energy photons emitted during nuclear decay of the cobalt - 60 isotope .
high energy photons emitted during nuclear decay of the cobalt - 57 isotope .
neutrons or charged particles ,  such as protons or alpha particles that produce ionizing events densely spaced on a molecular scale  ( e .g . ,   > 10 kev ?m1 )  .
x and gamma rays or light charged particles such as electrons that produce sparse ionizing events far apart on a molecular scale
a device that is used to measure the amount of ionizing radiation exposure or absorption .
a principle of radiation protection philosophy that requires that exposures to ionizing radiation be kept as low as reasonably achievable ,  economic and social factors being taken into account .
the reduction of radiation intensity upon passage of radiation through matter
use of a biological response as an indicator of a dose of an effective agent  ( e .g . ,  the extent of decline in peripheral blood lymphocytes of humans exposed to ionizing radiation can be used as an indicator of the absorbed dose to the whole body from that exposure )  .
the term used to describe the effects on cells in which the energy had not been directly deposited .
highly energetic electrons produced during inelastic collisions between ionizing radiation and atomic electrons .
the product of the absorbed dose  ( d )  at a point and the quality factor  ( q )  at that point for the radiation type  ( i .e . ,  h = dq )  .
the increased risk from induced cancer due to exposure when the effects over an entire lifetime are accounted for .
neutrons of energies above a few hundred kiloelectron volts  ( kev
the number of particles or photons per unit of cross - sectional area perpendicular to the direction of the particle  ( units of m2 or cm2 )   ( i .e . ,  particles per m2 or per cm2 )  .
the quotient of dn by dt ,  where dn is the increment of the particle number in the time interval dt .
an atomic nucleus with 2 or more protons .
the energy deposited by an ionizing charged particle or photon in any medium per unit path length
the mean absorbed radiation dose  in a specified tissue or organ of the human body
dimensionless factor developed for purposes of radiation protection and assessing health risks in general terms that accounts for the relative biological effectiveness of different radiations in producing stochastic effects and is used to relate absorbed dose  ( d )  at a point in tissue to dose equivalent  ( h  )  at a point ,  where h = d ?
a measurement datum of the quantity of radiation absorbed by a substance or organism .
a factor used to allow for differences in the biological effectiveness between different radiations when calculating equivalent dose  ( h_t )   ( see equivalent dose )  .
factor used to compare the biological effectiveness of absorbed doses from different types of ionizing radiation ,  determined experimentally .
denotes a substance with absorbing and scattering properties for a given radiation that sufficiently match those of a particular biological tissue .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a unit which is a standard measure of the distance between two points .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of matter / energy of a physical object .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
