an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a continuant  that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
p is a process boundary =def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
anatomical structure that is part of a multicellular organism and is at the gross anatomical level ,  e .g .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
the simplest aldehyde .
a amino cyclitol glycoside that consists of streptidine having a disaccharyl moiety attached at the 4 - position .
a disaccharide ,  found most notably in milk ,  that consists of d - galactose and d - glucose fragments bonded through a beta - 1 -  > 4 glycosidic linkage .
any of a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics produced by fermentation of some micromonospora spp .
sucrose is a disaccharide formed by glucose and fructose units joined by an acetal oxygen bridge from hemiacetal of glucose to the hemiketal of the fructose .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a dipeptide that has formula c14h18n2o5 .
a  ( 1 -  > 6 )  - alpha - d - glucan which has extra branching consisting of  ( 1 -  > 2 )  ,   ( 1 -  > 3 )  or  ( 1 -  > 4 )  linkages .
an organic sodium salt that is the monosodium salt of glutamic acid .
a broad - spectrum highly toxic antibiotic or mixture of antibiotics produced by a streptomyces  ( streptomyces fradiae )  and used medically especially to treat local infections .
an organomercury compound  ( approximately 49% mercury by weight )  used as an antiseptic and antifungal agent .
a heart disease and a myopathy that is characterized by deterioration of the function of the heart muscle .
a hematologic cancer that affects lymphocytes that reside in the lymphatic system and in blood - forming organs .
a cardiovascular system disease that involves the heart .
an immune system disease that is an exaggerated immune response to allergens ,  such as insect venom ,  dust mites ,  pollen ,  pet dander ,  drugs or some foods .
a cancer that affects the blood or bone marrow characterized by an abnormal proliferation of blood cells .
an autoimmune disease of peripheral nervous system that causes body's immune system to attack part of the peripheral nervous system .
a gastrointestinal system disease described as the condition of having frequent loose or liquid bowel movements .
a blood platelet disease characterized by low a platelet count in the blood .
a disease of cellular proliferation that is malignant and primary ,  characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation ,  local cell invasion and metastasis .
a hematopoietic system disease that is characterized by a decrease in the normal number of red blood cells .
a b cell deficiency that is caused by a reduction in all types of gamma globulins .
a skin disease characterized by itchy ,  erythematous ,  vesicular ,  weeping and crusting patches of skin .
a bronchial disease that is characterized by chronic inflammation and narrowing of the airways ,  which is caused by a combination of environmental and genetic factors .
a hypersensitivity reaction type i disease that is an abnormal response to a food ,  triggered by the body's immune system .
a thymus cancer that derives_from epithelial cells located_in the thymus .
a disease is a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
an immune system disease that is an overactive immune response of the body against substances and tissues normally present in the body resulting from an abnormal functioning of the immune system that results in the production of antibodies or t cell directed against the host tissues .
a food allergy that is an allergy or hypersensitivity to dietary substances from the yolk or whites of eggs ,  causing an overreaction of the immune system which may lead to severe physical symptoms .
a urinary system disease that is located_in the kidney .
a coronary artery disease characterized by myocardial cell death  ( myocardial necrosis )  due to prolonged ischaemia .
a heart disease that is characterized by any structural or functional cardiac disorder that impairs the ability of the heart to fill with or pump a sufficient amount of blood throughout the body .
a human immunodeficiency virus infectious disease that results_in reduction in the numbers of cd4 - bearing helper t cells below 200 per µl of blood or 14% of all lymphocytes thereby rendering the subject highly vulnerable to life - threatening infections and cancers ,  has_material_basis_in human immunodeficiency virus 1 or has_material_basis_in human immunodeficiency virus 2 ,  which are transmitted_by sexual contact ,  transmitted_by transfer of blood ,  semen ,  vaginal fluid ,  pre - ejaculate ,  or breast milk ,  transmitted_by congenital method ,  and transmitted_by contaminated needles .
a sebaceous gland disease characterized by areas of blackheads ,  whiteheads ,  pimples ,  greasy skin ,  and possibly scarring .
an artery disease that is characterized by dysfunction of the blood vessels supplying the brain .
a bone inflammation disease that results_in inflammation in the joints of the spine and pelvis .
an arthritis that is an autoimmune disease which attacks healthy cells and tissue located_in joint .
a lower respiratory tract disease in which the function of the lungs is adversely affected by narrowing or blockage of the airways resulting in poor air flow ,  a loss of elasticity in the lungs that produces a decrease in the total volume of air that the lungs are able to hold ,  and clotting ,  scarring ,  or inflammation of the blood vessels that affect the ability of the lungs to take up oxygen and to release carbon dioxide .
a pyoderma consisting of three forms of skin lesions having either a thick ,  adherent ,  recurrent ,  dirty yellow crust with an erythematous margin  ( common or superficial impetigo )  or lessions which are superficial ,  thin - walled ,  and bullous as found in bullous impetigo .
a viral infectious disease that results_in infection located_in nerve fiber ,  has_material_basis_in human herpesvirus 3 ,  which reactivates after appearing as chickenpox in childhood .
a viral infectious disease that results_in infection located_in skin ,  has_material_basis_in human herpesvirus 3 ,  which is transmitted_by direct contact with secretions from the rash ,  or transmitted_by droplet spread of respiratory secretions .
an intestinal disease that involves inflammation located_in intestine .
a lupus erythematosus that is an inflammation of connective tissue marked by skin rashes ,  joint pain and swelling ,  inflammation of the kidneys and inflammation of the tissue surrounding the heart .
a glucose metabolism disease characterized  by chronic hyperglycaemia with disturbances of carbohydrate ,  fat and protein metabolism resulting from defects in insulin secretion ,  insulin action ,  or both .
a reference to a place on the earth ,  by its name or by its geographical location .
a federal constitutional republic comprising fifty states and a federal district .
an unincorporated territory of the united states .
an area of the united states of america under united states jurisdiction ,  to which congress has determined that only select parts of the united states of america constitution apply .
an unincorporated territory of the united states located in the south pacific ocean ,  southeast of the sovereign state of samoa .
a group of islands in the caribbean that are an insular area of the united states .
a micronesian island nation in the western pacific ocean ,  located north of nauru and kiribati ,  east of the federated states of micronesia and south of the united states territory of wake island ,  to which it lays claim .
a semi - autonomous territory composed of an archipelago in the northeastern caribbean ,  east of the dominican republic and west of the virgin islands ,  approximately 2 , 000 km off the coast of florida  ( the nearest of the mainland united states )  .
a commonwealth in political union with the united states .
an unorganized ,  unincorporated territory of the united states ,  administered by the office of insular affairs ,  us department of the interior .
a statistical designation defined by iso3166 - 1 ,  consists of nine insular united states possessions .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
an information content entity that is a mark ( s )  or character ( s )  used as a conventional representation of another entity .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a textual entity is a part of a manifestation  ( frbr sense )  ,  a generically dependent continuant whose concretizations are patterns of glyphs intended to be interpreted as words ,  formulas ,  etc .
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
a planned process in which a document is created or added to by including the specified input in it .
a document that explains all relevant study information to assist a human subject in understanding the expectations and requirements of participation in a research study .
a planned process that involves the design of an informed consent form .
an organization that approves  the clinical study protocol ,  and ensures the applicable governing rules and laws are upheld .
a planned process that is a study requiring an official informed consent process .
a role that inheres in a patient or the legal guadian when he / she participates the consenting process .
a character string that is assigned by the review board upon approval of the study .
an informed consent form that is used for vaccination
a textual entity that provides a question in text .
a questionaire that is filled up with answers .
a textual entity that answers a question with an option .
an answer option textual entity that answers a question with a yes .
an answer option textual entity that answers a question with a no .
a planned process that involves the filling of an informed consent form .
a planned process that involves the filling of a questionnaire form that includes a list of questions .
a pathological bodily process that occurs after a medical intervention .
an adverse event that occurs after a vaccination .
a sensory capability ae that has an outcome of dizziness
a sensory capability ae that has an outcome of loss of consciousness ,  fainting
a nervous system ae that has the symptom of gbs .
serious adverse event is an adverse event that requires in - patient hospitalization ,  or prolongation of existing hospitalization ,  or that causes congenital malformation ,  or that results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity ,  or that is life threatening or results in death .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a planned process that consists of parts: planning ,  study design execution ,  documentation and which produce conclusion ( s )  .
a role borne by an entity and that is realized in a process that is part of an investigation in which an objective is achieved .
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
a plan specification which has sufficient level of detail and quantitative information to communicate it between investigation agents ,  so that different investigation agents will reliably be able to independently reproduce the process .
material to be added role is a protocol participant role realized by a material which is added into a material bearing the target of material addition role in a material addition process
a planned process in which data gathered in an investigation is evaluated in the context of existing knowledge with the objective to generate more general conclusions or to conclude that the data does not allow one to draw general conclusion
a process of creating or modifying a plan specification
target of material addition role is a role realized by an entity into which a material is added in a material addition process
a planned process that realizes the concretization of a study design
a planned process in which a person or their legal representative is informed about key facts about potential risks and benefits of a process and makes a documented decision as to whether the person in question will participate .
a document with a set of printed or written questions with a choice of answers ,  devised for the purposes of a survey or statistical study .
an information content entity that is inferred from data .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a plan specification comprised of protocols  ( which may specify how and what kinds of data will be gathered )  that are executed as part of an investigation and is realized during a study design execution .
the genome of an organism of bacteria
the genome of an organism of proteobacteria
a gene of an organism of bacteria
a gene of an organism of proteobacteria
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population that only produces gametes that can be fertilised by male gametes .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population whose sex organs contain only male gametes .
a physical object quality which inheres in a single - bearer .
faint is a alteration of consciousness characterized by a loss of consciousness because of a temporary decrease in the blood supply to the brain .
a symptom is a perceived change in function ,  sensation ,  loss ,  disturbance or appearance reported by a patient indicative of a disease .
a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an eruption on the body typically with little or no elevation above the surface .
wheezing is a respiratory abnormality characterized by breathing with difficulty usually with a whistling sound .
dizziness is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a sensation of unsteadiness accompanied by a feeling of movement within the head .
fever is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a rise of body temperature above the normal whether a natural response  ( as to infection )  or artificially induced for therapeutic reasons .
low - grade fever is a fever that does not exceed 38 .5 degree centrigrade .
high fever is a fever that involved an elevated temperature .
vomiting is a digestive system symptom characterized by throwing up the stomach contents .
dyspnea is a respiratory abnormality characterized by difficult or labored respiration .
first portion of the digestive tract [ wp ]  .
tissue which consists of skeletal muscle fibers surrounded by endomysium .
organ with organ cavity which is continuous proximally with the right and left ureters and distally with the urethra .
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
nonparenchymatous organ that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
a vaccination informed consent form that is provided by manitoba government in canada
a questionnaire that is part of the manitoba vaccination informed consent form .
a questionnaire that contains different questions of an intended vaccine reciepiant's health history ,  allergy history ,  and current condition ,  in order to assess the contraindication and precaution for administering a vaccine .
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is allergic to a vaccine component
a questionnaire for costco vaccination consent that is filled
a questionnaire for walgreens vaccination consent that is filled
a human who is going to recieve an administration of a vaccine ,  who bears a vaccination patient role ,  which is realized when he / she sits in a vaccination provider's site and is the bject of screening questions for receiving a vaccine .
a vaccination informed consent form that is provided by costco
a vaccination informed consent form that is provided by walgreens
a questionnaire that is part of the walgreens vaccination informed consent form .
a questionnaire that is part of the costco vaccination informed consent form .
a person lives in the same house with vaccination patient
a person who has close physical contact with the vaccination patient ,  such as sex partner
a newborn infant ,  or neonate ,  is a child under 28 days of age .
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is currently sick .
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is allergic to some material .
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is allergic to latex .
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is allergic to food
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is allergic to food
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is allergic to a medication
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is allergic to a vaccine
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee had any reaction after a vaccination  ( i .e . ,  immunization )  in the past .
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has experienced any seizure disorder
a question textual entity that asks whether the vaccination patient is immunocomprised
a question textual entity that asks whether a woman is pregnant now
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is currently under any treatment
a current treatment question that asks whether the questionee is currently under any cortisone treatment
a current treatment question that asks whether the questionee is currently under any x - ray treatment
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has been vaccinated in the past four weeks
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has conducted a tb skin test in the past four weeks
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has conducted a blood transfusion in the past year
a current treatment question that asks whether the questionee has been under a high - dose steroid therapy  (  ( prednisone  >  20mg / day or equivalent )  )  for longer than two weeks
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has a thymus disease
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is currently taking some antibiotics
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has a history of thrombocytopenia
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is currently taking aspirin
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has a history of asthma or wheezing
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has a serious nasal condition ,  which makes breathing difficult ,  such as a very stuffy nose .
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has a a long - term health problem with heart disease ,  lung disease ,  asthma ,  kidney disease ,  metabolic disease  ( e .g . ,  diabetes )  ,  anemia or other blood disorder .
a question on long - term health problem that asks whether the questionee has a long - term heart disease
a question on long - term health problem that asks whether the questionee has cancer
a question on long - term health problem that asks whether the questionee has leukemia
a question on long - term health problem that asks whether the questionee has a long - term lung disease
a questionnaire that is part of the manitoba vaccination informed consent form .
a question on long - term health problem that asks whether the questionee has a long - term metabolic disease
a question on long - term health problem that asks whether the questionee has diabetes
a question on long - term health problem that asks whether the questionee has anemia
a question on long - term health problem that asks whether the questionee has aids
a current treatment question that asks whether the questionee is currently under prednisone treatment
a current treatment question that asks whether the questionee is currently under any steroid treatment
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is currently taking any anti - cancer drugs
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee hasfainted or felt dizzy after a vaccination  ( i .e . ,  immunization ) 
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has been given transfusion of blood products in the past year
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has been given immune  ( gamma )  globulin in the past year
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has a history of thymoma
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has his / her thymus removed previously
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is currently under antimalarial medication
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has experienced any seizure disorder ,  brain or nerve problem .
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has conducted a blood or blood product transfusion ,  or given a medicine called immune  ( gamma )  globulin ,  in the past year
a question textual entity that asks whether a woman is pregnant now or could become pregrant during the next month
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has cancer ,  leukemia ,  aids or any other immune system problem
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee is currently sick with a moderate to high fever ,  vomiting / diarrhea
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has taken any medication that affects blood clotting
a question textual entity that asks whether the questionee has a history of thrombocytopenia or thrombocytopenic purpura .
questions that related to patient's vaccination history ,  warnings received from health provider about a certain vaccination ,  and adverse event related with a vaccination .
a question asks if the vaccination patient received warning or precaution information from his / her health provider in the past .
a question textual entity that asks the patient whether he / she had diagnosed ,  treated and recovered from chickenpox ,  or varicella - zoster virus  ( vzv )  infection .
a minor vaccination patient whose age is younger thatn 5 or equal to 5 .
question that is about the patient's repiratory system or chest symptoms .
question asks vaccination patient about current drug usage .
a question asks if the patient currently has any disease that requies regular doctor's vsisit ,  long tem disease that impacts current well - being ,  any symptoms ,  or feeling ill at the time when he / she is being accessed by vaccination providers .
a disposition of ill health ,  bodily malfunction ,  or discomfort .
a condition or state in which the immune system doesn't have ability to fight infectious disease or medical challenges .
the organism's spleen doesn't work ,  or
the organsim is lacking of the spleen as a part of its body .
asplenia refers to the absence of normal spleen function and is associated with some serious infection risks .
the immunocomproised condition accquired by transplant patients taking medications to suppress their immune system as an anti - rejection measure .
a health condition where the fluid surrounding the brain and spinal cord escapes .
a condition of person who has been surgically implanted an electronic device under the skin behind the ear to provide hearing .
the state or condition of having a developing embryo or fetus in the body  ( uterus )  ,  after union of an ovum and spermatozoon ,  during the period from conception to birth .
a burn is an injury to the skin or other organic tissue primarily caused by heat or due to radiation ,  radioactivity ,  electricity ,  friction or contact with chemicals .
the feeding of babies and young children with milk from a woman's breast .
a person's current tobacco and nicotine consumption as well as his / her smoking history .
sexual intercourse without the use of precautions to prevent conception or the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases .
'part of organism in vaccine' is a pathogen component in vaccine that contains only a part of the pathogen organism instead of the whole organism .
a vaccine is a processed material with the function that when administered ,  it prevents or ameliorates a disorder in a target organism by inducing or modifying adaptive immune responses specific to the antigens in the vaccine .
a process of administering substance in vivo that involves in adding a vaccine into a host  ( e .g . ,  human )  in vivo with the intent to invoke a protective or therapeutic adaptive immune response .
a vaccine that protects against bacillus anthrax that causes anthrax .
a vaccinia virus vaccine that is a freeze - dried calf lymph smallpox vaccine ,  specifically ,  dryvax is a live - virus preparation of vaccinia prepared from calf lymph .
a bacterial vaccine that prevents neisseria meningitidis infection .
a measles - mumps - rubella vaccine that is live attenuated and manufactured by merck & co ,  inc .
a measles - mumps vaccine that is manufactured by merck and used for human .
an influenza vaccine that is similar to fluzone but has high dose .
a measles - mumps - rubella - vericella vaccine that is live and manufactured by merck & co ,  inc .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with yellow fever virus .
an adjuvant role that inheres in a vaccine component which is added as part of a vaccine and induces enhanced adaptive immune response to the vaccine antigen .
a vaccine that targets against a bacterial disease .
a virulence of vaccine organism that shows an attenuated pheontype of the organism as the major component of a vaccine .
a vaccine that prevents or treats cancer .
a processed material that is output of the vaccine preparation and part of a vaccine .
an organismal quality of a whole organism vaccine where the whole organism is inactivated / killed and lacks the capability of replication .
vaccine function is a function that inheres in a vaccine that induces protective immune response against a disease .
a route of administration that inject the material ( such as vaccines ,  allergens )  directly into a muscle .
rounte of administration that located in nose .
a varicella - zoster virus vaccine that is live attenuated .
a pneumococcal vaccine that is formed using polyvalent polysaccharides
preventive vaccine function is a vaccine function realized by the process of vaccination and leading to induction of an adaptive immune response to the antigens in a vaccine ,  which protects against a specific disorder .
active immunization is an immunization process that entails the introduction of a foreign molecule into the body ,  which causes the body itself to generate adaptive immunity against the target .
artificial active immunization is an active immunization that occurs when a person or animal is vaccinated with a specific vaccine .
induction of adaptive immune response to antigen is an active immunization process that results in induction of adaptive immune response to some antigens ,  for example ,  in a vaccine .
disorder prevention is a processual entity that prevents a disorder that is the physical basis of a disease .
disorder treatment is a processual entity that leads to treat a disorder that is the physical basis of a disease .
modification of adaptive immune response to antigen is an active immunization process that results in modification of an adaptive immune response to some antigens ,  for example ,  in a therapeutic vaccine .
a route of administration that is loacted in the hypodermis  ( subcutaneous tissue )  region .
a vaccinee that is a human being
the therapeutic vaccine function is a function realized by the process of vaccination and leading to induction of an adaptive immune response to the antigens in a vaccine ,  which ameliorates a specific disorder .
a path that is located in gross anatomical part of an organism  ( e .g . ,  human )  and is used for administering a vaccine ,  a drug ,  fluid ,  poison ,  or other substance into the body .
vaccine preservative that has thimerosal as part .
h1n1 influenza vaccine is an influenza virus vaccine that is used to vaccinate against h1n1 influenza subtype vaccine .
a vaccine component that is chemical substance added to vaccine and enhance and direct immune response to protective antigen .
immunization objective is the specification of an objective to achieve immunization .
vaccine preparation is a manufacturing process to produce a vaccine .
a vaccine that targets against a viral disease .
a vaccine role that indicates the vaccine being a conjugate vaccine .
licensed vaccine role is a regulation - assigned role that indicates that a vaccine obtains official approval for commercial production and selling on the market .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infection with clostridium spp .
a clostridium vaccine that protects against infection with clostridium tetani that causes tenanus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with influenza virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with hepatitis b virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with hepatitis a virus .
a bacteria vaccine that prevents against yersinia pestis infection that causes plague .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with rabies virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with smallpox virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with measles virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with rotavirus .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infection with haemophilus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with poliovirus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with japanese encephalitis virus .
a vaccine against human papillomavirus infection
a herpesvirus vaccine that is used against varicella - zoster virus infection .
a salmonella vaccine against typhoid fever  ( or called typoid )  ,  caused by salmonella enterica enterica ,  serovar typhi .
a streptococcal vaccine that is used against s . pneumoniae infection ,  which causes pneumococcal diseases .
a measles - mumps vaccine that also protects against infection with  rubella virus .
a corynebacterium diphtheriae vaccine that also protect against infection with clostridium tetani .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infection with corynebacterium diphtheriae that causes diphtheria .
a measles virus vaccine that also protects against infection with  mumps virus .
a measles - mumps - rubella vaccine that also protects against vericella .
a viral vaccine against hepatitis b virus and at the same time against bacterial h . influenzae serotype b .
a bacterial vaccine that prevents infection with vibrio cholera .
bcg vaccine is a mycobacterium tuberculosis vaccine that is a live attenuated strain of mycobacterium bovis  ( bacillus calmette guerin ;  bcg )  .
a licensed vaccine role that indicates the vaccine occurs in usa .
a vaccine additive that helps to protect the vaccine from adverse conditions such as the freeze - drying process  ( for those vaccines that are freeze - dried )  or heat .
a vaccine residual that is generatead from cell culture for vaccine preparation .
a licensed status that occurs in canada .
influvac is an influenza virus vaccine that is manufactured by solvay pharma .
vaxigrip is an influenza virus vaccine that is manufactured by 'sanofi pasteur limited .
a mineral salt vaccine adjuvant that is composed of aluminum salt .
a role inhers in a vaccine component that when added into a vccine formmulation ,  it can prevent the growth of bacteria or fungi that inadvertently may be introduced into the vaccine during administrating process or the manufacturing process .
a route of administration that inject the material ( such as vaccines ,  allergens )  into the skin itself .
vaccine allergen is a material entity that is capable of stimulating a type - i hypersensitivity reaction in atopic individuals who has been vaccinated with a vaccine .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is bovine albumin .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is bovine serum .
a vaccine stablizer that is based on monosodium glutamate .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is human albumin .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is human serum .
a vaccine emulsifier that uses polysorbate 80 ,  also known as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate or tween™ 80 .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is residual protein from cell culture .
a vaccine stabilizer that is specifically made by sorbitol .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is sucrose albumin .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is from yeast extract .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is yeast protein .
a tetanus vaccine manusfactured by sanofi pasteur inc . that is only for booster use  ( not recommended for primary immunization ) 
a live attenuated quality of a bacterial vaccine strain .
a live attenuated quality of a virus vaccine strain .
a vaccination that occurs in the intramuscular route .
a role of host that contains vaccine .
the objective that intends to produce vaccine via the vaccine preparation process .
vaccination process that occurs in intranasal route
vaccination process that occurs in oral route .
vaccination process that occurs in the subcutaneous route
a role inheres in the vaccine component when it is added into vaccine's formulation ,  it tends to stabilizes an emulsion by increasing its kinetic stablity .
a role inheres in vaccine component when added into vaccine's formulation ,  it tends to inhibit the reaction between two or more other vaccine substances in the final vaccine formulation ;  it also helps to protect the vaccine from adverse conditions such as the freeze - drying process or heat .
the conjugate protein is a part of a conjugate vaccine and acts as a carrier protein that is covalently attached to a vaccine antigen with poor antigenicity  ( e .g . ,  a polysaccharide )  .
role inheres in a material eneitity that union itself chemically with a relative weak vaccine antigen to form a new whole that can create an effective miinuogen .
the injection of a given substance directly into the bladder via a urethral catheter instead of being injected under the skin .
a measles - rubella vaccine that is live attenuated and manufactured by glaxosmithkline biologicals .
a live attenuated v . cholerae vaccine that is manufactured by berna biotech ,  ltd .
a mmr vaccine that is manufactured by glaxosmithkline biologicals .
a measles - mumps - rubella - vericella vaccine that is live attenuated and manufactured by glaxosmithkline biologicals .
a vaccine that protects against haemophilus influenzae .
a vaccine that protects against tick - borne encephalitis virus  ( tbev )  .
