the manner ,  procedure or technique by which a morphological or physiological state or property in a single individual or sample or a group of individuals or samples is assessed and a quantitative or qualitative value assigned .
a method using the work per unit charge necessary to move a charge body in an electric field from a reference point to make or calculate the measurement of interest .
method of graphically recording position and motion of walls and internal structures of the heart and neighboring tissue through the echo obtained from beams of ultrasonic waves directed through the chest wall .
any procedure for making graphic records of the variations in electrical potential caused by electrical activity of the heart muscle .
the manner ,  procedure or technique by which a morphological or physiological state or property in an isolated body part is assessed and a quantitative or qualitative value assigned .
any method for measuring the weight of an organ ,  tissue or other body part after it has been removed from the body .
use of a shimadzu electronic balance for measuring the weight of an organ ,  tissue or other body part after it has been removed from the body .
a technique for assessing blood flow by placing an infrared emitting diode along with a sensor ,  on the surface of the skin over a blood vessel with the amount of light reflected back to the sensor being inversely proportional to the number of red blood cells flowing through the vessel .
a technique that utilizes piezoelectric ceramic crystals with a sensor for assessing blood flow by placing the apparatus on the skin above a blood vessel .
a thin tube communicating to the body surface ,  inserted into the vascular system and positioned to permit measurements of blood flow ,  pressure or blood sampling over a period of time .
a catheter whose tip is provided with an inflatable balloon that holds the catheter in place or is used to dilate the lumen of a vessel .
an intravascular catheter connected by a saline - filled tube to an external pressure transducer ,  often used to measure intravascular pressure .
a method in which a measurement is made at a distance from the organism or part of the organism with the measurable evidence being transmitted by radio signals from the organism to the recording apparatus .
a digital scale which is appropriate for use in weighing the entire body of an animal or a human .
a method for quantitative determination of chemical substances using a fluorochrome - labeled antibody or antigen .
a method of visualizing soft tissues of the body by applying an external magnetic field that makes it possible to distinguish between hydrogen atoms in different environments .
a method to measure the rate of flow of liquids or gases using a laser beam in which the light is shifted by moving objects in the fluid in accordance with the doppler effect and the scattered light is detected with a photodetector .
a procedure that measures electrical potentials on the scalp generating a record of the electrical activity of the brain .
a technique which uses the visualization of deep structures of the body by recording the reflections of pulses of ultrasonic waves directed into the tissues .
an ultrasound in which shifts in frequency between emitted ultrasonic waves and their echoes are used to measure the velocities of moving objects ,  primarily blood flow within vessels .
a procedure or technique performed in or on a living body ,  for example ,  a procedure performed on an organ in situ or on the entire living organism ,  by which a morphological or physiological state or property of that body or body part is assessed and a quantitative or qualitative value assigned .
a procedure or technique performed outside the living body by which a morphological or physiological state or property in a single sample or a group of samples is assessed and a quantitative or qualitative value assigned .
in this method ,  the aorta is cannulated and the heart is perfused in a retrograde fashion .
determination of the component parts or elements of blood and their quantity or quality after the blood has been removed from the body .
extraction of blood from an artery using a needle .
a method which uses a digital thermometer ,  an instrument with a defined scale for determining temperature which presents its measurements in the form of discrete numeric symbols ,  inserted into the rectum of an organism ,  that is ,  the  terminal portion of the large intestine ,  to measure body temperature .
method for assessing the levels of dissolved gases in blood samples using a bayer automated gas analyzer ,  a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control .
automated analysis of one or more electrolytes ,  substances which dissociate into ions ,  in the blood .
a method to determine the level of one or more lipids ,  water insoluble fats and fat - like substances ,  in blood .
a form of atomic spectroscopy in which one observes the emission of light at discrete wavelengths by atoms which have been electronically excited by collisions with other atoms and molecules in a gas or sprayed solution heated in a flame ,  such as an air / acetylene flame  ( ~2300 degrees c )  .
a method to measure the degree of force used in the contraction of a group of muscles .
non - invasive procedure for making graphic records of the variations in electrical potential caused by electrical activity of the heart using 3 bipolar limb leads ,  3 augmented unipolar limb leads and 6 standard precordial leads .
a method for recording the movements ,  form and force of the arterial pulse in which the disappearance and reappearance of the pulse are indicated by an oscillating needle .
a technique for assessing blood flow by placing a diode that is part of a cuff that is placed on the skin over a blood vessel in the tail of a vertebrate with the amount of light reflected back to the sensor being inversely proportional to the number of red blood cells flowing through the vessel .
a technique using piezoelectric crystals with a sensor to assess blood flow by placing it above a blood vessel in the tail of a vertebrate .
an instrument for indirect measurement of blood pressure consisting of an inflatable cuff that fits around a limb or tail and a bulb for controlling air pressure within the cuff and a mercury or aneroid manometer with assessment based on sounds heard through a stethoscope .
a method which utilizes a  measurement device implanted in the abdominal aorta which transmits radio signals to a recording device .
method to measure tension or pressure ,  often for intraocular pressure .
measurement of the opposition to the flow of an electrical current through a segment of tissue .
an assay that uses competition between radiolabeled and unlabeled substances in an antigen - antibody reaction to determine concentrations of a specific substance .
method which measures the electrical resistance of the thorax to a high frequency ,  very low magnitude current .
an enzyme immunoassay using enzyme labeled immunoreactant   ( antigen or antibody )  and an immunosorbent  ( antigen or antibody )  bound to a solid support .
a method for measuring and recording changes in the size and volume of organs and parts of the body by measuring changes in their blood volume or air volume .
method that infers intraocular pressure from force needed to flatten a constant area .
a method that uses the principle of contour matching .
measures the depth of the impression produced by a small plunger carrying a known weight .
a fold of skin is pinched raising a double layer of skin and the underlying adipose tissue with a caliper or compass with curved legs applied at right angles to the pinch for a measurement of thickness .
method in which the composition or purity of a solution or other substance  ( gas ,  liquid or solid )  is measured by computing the refractive index ,  the ratio of the speed of light in a vacuum relative to that speed through a given medium .
the lung is placed in an artificial thoracic chamber and ventilated at negative pressure .
a digital scale ,  that is ,  one which uses one or more load cells with a strain gauge to quantify the weight or mass of the object being measured ,  made up of a platform at floor level with an electronic display mounted on a column or pedestal .
extraction of blood from a vein using a needle .
a method in which the subject's weight is measured in air and underwater to determine density of the body and from that calculate percentage body fat .
doppler ultrasonography in which a single trnasducer alternately transmits and records ultrasonic waves ,  primarily used to assess blood flow within vessels .
extraction of blood from skin .
use of a precision differential pressure transducer for measuring the volume of air inspired and expired by the lungs .
a method to measure the degree of force used in the contraction of the muscles of the hand ,  the distal part of the upper limb ,  consisting of the carpus ,  metacarpus ,  and fingers .
method which employs a fixed cycling machine  ( that is ,  an apparatus having a seat ,  handlebars ,  and pedals but which does not move from place to place )  to estimate the exercise intensity ,  work or power output of the participant using the device's revolutions per minute and resistance to pedalling ,  which can be adjusted to vary the intensity .
method for withdrawing blood from an organism .
a method for  quantitative determination of chemical substances using specific binding between antigen or hapten and homologous antibodies .
method in which a pin is suspended in a blood sample and oscillates ,  creating a signal transmitted through an optical detector system which graphs changes in elasticity during the development and resolution of a blood clot .
separation of ionic solutes based on differences in rate of migration in an applied electric field using a semisolid colloid such as agarose or acrylamide as the support medium .
a device for measuring height with a digital readout .
a device for measuring height consisting of a vertical ruler with sliding horizontal rod .
doppler ultrasonography using two transducers ,  with one continually transmitting and the other continually recording the ultrasonic waves ,  primarily used to assess blood flow within vessels .
echocardiography in which an ultrasound transducer attached to a fiberoptic endoscope is inserted into the esophagus to provide two dimensional images of the heart .
examination or observation of material performed outside the living body using a microscope ,  an instrument used to obtain an enlarged image of small objects and reveal details of structure not otherwise distinguishable .
examination or observation of material performed outside the living body through a microscope using beams of electrons ,  negatively charged elementary particles ,  to produce magnified images .
examination or observation of material performed outside the living body through a light microscope ,  an optical instrument that uses visible light  ( electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths between approximately 390 and 700 nm )  processed through a lens or a combination of lenses to produce magnified images .
a method to determine the level of glucose ,  the end product of carbohydrate metabolism ,  in the blood .
a test in which glucose is given orally ,  often in solution ,  and blood samples taken afterward at specific time interval ( s )  to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood .
collection of the fluid flowing out of the heart during the langendorff isolated perfused heart method .
measures blood glucose level one or more times a day regardless of food intake .
a caliper with a dial gauge for measuring skin folds or girth measurements of small joints manufactured by baty .
a procedure to measure a morphological parameter of all or part of the body of an organism .
a tape of cloth ,  paper ,  metal or other materials marked off in a linear scale for taking measurements .
a caliper with a dial for measuring the thickness of skin folds ,  manufactured by beta .
a body measuring method which employs a lafayette small anthropometer ,  an instrument for measuring dimensions of a body often consisting of a calibrated ,  vertical rod to which one fixed and one movable horizontal arms are attached .
using x - rays or gamma rays to create records of the internal structures of a living body .
radiographic method involving multiple records of selected area at intervals .
technique in which a latent electron image is produce on clear plastic by passing x - ray photons through a gas with a high atomic number .
recording of internal body images at a predetermined plane using an apparatus for moving an x - ray source in one direction as the film is moved in the opposite direction .
tomography ,  that is ,  method that produces images of single tissue planes ,  in which the emergent x - ray beam is measured by a scintillation counter and the electronic impulses are recorded on a magnetic disk and processed by a mini - computer for reconstruction display of the body in cross - section on a cathode ray tube .
detection of gamma rays emitted from tissues after administration of natural biochemical substance into which positron emitting isotopes have been incorporated .
a method for measuring body composition / density ,  for instance using a fiberglass chamber incorporating an electronic scale and air volume measurement device to record air volume when the chamber is empty and when an individual is inside .
a test which determines total amount of cholesterol carried in high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  ,  low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  and very - low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  molecules in a volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  particles in a sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  particles in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in very - low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  particles serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a laboratory test which measures the level of triglyceride ,  the naturally occurring ester of three fatty acids and glycerol that is the chief constituent of fat ,  in serum .
automated determination of the level of ionized calcium in serum .
automated analysis to determine the level of potassium ions in serum .
automated analysis to determine the level of sodium ions in serum .
an automated analysis to determine the level of chloride ions in serum .
use of an automated analyzer for the examination of one or more of the cell types in blood to determine quantitative  properties .
any method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys ,  including measurement of the volume of urine or of the quantity or quality of component parts of urine .
a reagent test strip which measures the quantity of amylase ,  an enzyme produced primarily in the pancreas ,  in urine and visually matched against a score chart .
a reagent test strip which measures the amount of cortisol ,  the major natural glucocorticoid synthesized in the adrenal cortex ,  in urine and visually matched against a score chart .
a reagent strip that measures the amount of glucose in urine and visually matched against a score chart .
a solid phase colorimetric assay to detect very low levels of albumin ,  the major blood plasma protein which is responsible for much of the plasma colloidal osmotic pressure and serves as a transport protein for large organic anions such as fatty acids and bilirubin ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  in which a strip of paper ,  or of plastic with one or more attached pads of paper ,  impregnated with a reagent that reacts with albumin is dipped into the urine sample ,  allowed to react for a specified period of time and then the results are assessed by a visual comparison with a standard chromatic / color scale .
a solid phase colorimetric assay utilizing a strip of paper ,  or of plastic with one or more attached pads of paper ,  impregnated with a reagent that specifically reacts with potassium ions .
a solid phase colorimetric assay utilizing a strip of paper ,  or of plastic with one or more attached pads of paper ,  impregnated with a reagent that specifically reacts with sodium ions .
a reagent strip that measures the amount of uric acid ,  the end product of purine catabolism ,  in urine and visually matched against a score chart .
use of a digital scale -  - i .e .
a procedure or technique performed in or on a living body ,  for example ,  a procedure performed on an organ in situ or on the entire living organism ,  to measure the thickness or diameter of a solid using a compass with bent or curved legs or a device comprised of a calibrated scale with a fixed jaw ,  and another jaw ,  with a pointer ,  that slides along the scale from which the distance between the two pieces can be read .
method was not specified in source of data .
any method which a measurement is made of a morphological or physiological characteristic of a tissue ,  that is ,  an aggregation of similarly specialized cells united in the performance of a particular function ,  after that tissue has been removed from the body .
a procedure or technique performed on a tissue or body part outside of or away from the living organism but while the tissue itself remains viable ,  by which a morphological or physiological state or property of that tissue or body part is evaluated ,  appraised or perceived through the sense of sight ,  rather than through the use of instruments or machines to make measurements .
a procedure or technique performed in or on a living body ,  for example ,  a procedure performed on an organ in situ or on the entire living organism ,  by which a morphological or physiological state or property of that body or body part is evaluated ,  appraised or perceived through the sense of sight ,  rather than through the use of instruments or machines to make measurements .
a test in which glucose is injected into the peritoneal cavity and blood samples taken afterward at specified interval ( s )  to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood .
an automated device that calculates glucose levels in blood .
a method to determine the level of one or more proteins ,  any of a group of complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
a test which measures one or more properties such as the amount ,  composition ,  etc of lipoprotein or a component of lipoprotein in blood .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the level of creatinine ,  the catabolic product of creatine ,  in blood .
a standardized group of blood tests which are routinely performed to determine the general health of a patient or test subject .
method for measuring the osmolality or concentration of particles in a solution .
a solid phase colorimetric assay utilizing a strip of paper ,  or of plastic with one or more attached pads of paper ,  impregnated with a reagent that reacts with an element or compound is dipped into the urine sample ,  allowed to react for a specified period of time and the results then assessed by a visual comparison with a standard chromatic / color scale or by an automated analyzer .
a method in which an emission  ( as of particles or radiation )  is dispersed according to some property  ( as mass or energy )  of the emission and the amount of dispersion is measured .
method to evaluate a fluid for a molecule of interest ,  based on the molecule's ability to alter the transmission of light at specific wavelengths in the ultraviolet ,  infrared ,  or visible spectrum .
an automated device used to analyze the physical or chemical characteristics of a sample of blood .
analysis using an automated device for measuring levels of oxygen ,  carbon dioxide ,  carbon monoxide and nitrogen in blood .
a test strip or dipstick which contains a reagent that reacts with glucose in blood and which is manually read .
use of an automated device for measuring the physical and chemical characteristics of urine .
an automated method using a device that measures the ability of blood to clot by performing any of several tests .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the physical or chemical characteristics of blood .
a solid phase colorimetric assay utilizing a strip of paper ,  or of plastic with one or more attached pads of paper ,  impregnated with a reagent that reacts with an element or compound is dipped into the urine sample ,  allowed to react for a specified period of time and the results then assessed by an automated analyzer .
a solid phase colorimetric assay utilizing a strip of paper ,  or of plastic with one or more attached pads of paper ,  impregnated with a reagent that reacts with an element or compound is dipped into the urine sample ,  allowed to react for a specified period of time and the results then assessed by a visual comparison with a standard chromatic / color scale .
a solid phase colorimetric assay to detect very low levels of albumin ,  the major blood plasma protein which is responsible for much of the plasma colloidal osmotic pressure and serves as a transport protein for large organic anions such as fatty acids and bilirubin ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  in which a strip of paper ,  or of plastic with one or more attached pads of paper ,  impregnated with a reagent that reacts with albumin is dipped into the urine sample ,  allowed to react for a specified period of time and then the results are assessed by an automated analyzer .
a solid phase colorimetric assay utilizing a strip of paper ,  or of plastic with one or more attached pads of paper ,  impregnated with a reagent that specifically reacts with sodium ions .
a solid phase colorimetric assay utilizing a strip of paper ,  or of plastic with one or more attached pads of paper ,  impregnated with a reagent that specifically reacts with potassium ions .
a test strip or dipstick containing a reagent which reacts with glucose in blood .
a strip or dipstick containing a reagent which reacts with glucose in blood and is read by an automated analyzer .
method to measure thickness ,  for example ,  of a fold of skin ,  using a caliper with dial and arrow that points to the reading .
a caliper for measuring skin fold thickness with a digital readout and computation of percent body fat .
a method performed on a living organism using an instrument with a defined scale for determining temperature ,  that is ,  the degree of heat or cold ,  of an object or individual or a portion of an individual's body .
a method which uses a manual thermometer ,  an instrument with a defined scale for determining temperature usually consisting of a tube containing a temperature - responsive substance such as mercury or alcohol the results of which are assessed by a person without the assistance of automated instrumentation ,  inserted into the rectum of an organism ,  that is ,  the  terminal portion of the large intestine ,  to measure body temperature .
a method which uses a manual thermometer ,  an instrument with a defined scale for determining temperature usually consisting of a tube containing a temperature - responsive substance such as mercury or alcohol the results of which are assessed by a person without the assistance of automated instrumentation ,  placed in the mouth of an organism ,  most commonly under the tongue ,  to measure body temperature .
a method which uses a digital thermometer ,  an instrument with a defined scale for determining temperature which presents its measurements in the form of discrete numeric symbols ,  placed in the mouth of an organism ,  most commonly under the tongue ,  to measure body temperature .
technique using visualization of deep structures of the body by recording the reflections of pulses of ultrasonic waves directed into the tissues .
doppler ultrasonography using two transducers ,  with one continuously transmitting and the other continuously recording the ultrasonic waves .
doppler ultrasonography in which a single transducer alternately transmits and records ultrasonic waves .
a method which employs a pressure meter to measure blood pressure .
radiography demonstrating the intracranial fluid - containing spaces after the withdrawal of cerebrospinal fluid and the introduction of air or other gas .
a test in which glucose is given and blood samples taken afterward at specific time interval ( s )  to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood .
method involving the use of an instrument which measures the energy applied by a tissue so that it initiates motion ,  changes the speed or direction of motion ,  alters the size or shape of an object ,  or produces an elastic strain on a system ,  after that tissue has been removed from the body .
method involving the use of an instrument which measures the energy applied by a tissue so that it initiates motion ,  changes the speed or direction of motion ,  alters the size or shape of an object ,  or produces an elastic strain on a system ,  when such a measurement is made on a tissue which has been removed from the body and involves the conversion of that energy into another form ,  such as an electrical signal ,  to be recorded .
a procedure to measure the full length of the intact body of an organism ,  that is ,  the extent of the body along its greatest dimension .
an experimental procedure performed in or on a living body ,  for example ,  a procedure performed on an organ in situ or on the entire living organism ,  which employs a measuring instrument having a sequence of marks at regular intervals ;  used as a reference in making measurements of length .
an experimental procedure performed in or on a living body ,  for example ,  a procedure performed on an organ in situ or on the entire living organism ,  which employs a strip of wood ,  metal ,  or other material ,  having straight edges and graduated ,  for example in millimetres or inches ,  used for measuring lengths .
any instrument ,  procedure ,  or technique by which the size of the three dimensional space occupied by a substance or other entity distinct from or removed from an organism ,  is ascertained .
a tall narrow container with a volume scale used especially for measuring liquids .
any method for measuring the percentage of whole blood volume occupied by red blood cells .
whole blood is collected in a microhematocrit tube and the height of the red blood cell column is measured after centrifugation .
a laboratory test which measures the level of free fatty acids in blood .
an instrument or machine for weighing .
an instrument or machine for weighing which is specifically of a type used for weighing infants .
any method performed outside the living body which incorporates use of microscopy followed by use of computer software to analyze the resulting microscopic images .
a method performed outside the living body which incorporates use of light microscopy to produce picture files stored as data expressed in a discrete numerical form ,  followed by use of computer software to evaluate these resulting microscopic images .
a method which incorporates use of electron microscopy ,  that is ,  examination or observation of material performed outside the living body through a microscope using beams of electrons ,  negatively charged elementary particles ,  to produce magnified images ,  followed by use of computer software to analyze the resulting microscopic images .
any method which is performed on cells which have been isolated from a tissue of an organism and / or cultured in vitro .
any method by which the volume of the cells isolated from a tissue of an organism and / or cultured in vitro are measured .
any method by which the number of cells isolated from a tissue of an organism and / or cultured in vitro in a sample are determined .
a method which utilizes a laboratory instrument that determines the size and / or number of cells or particles in a sample in an automated fashion ,  that is ,  following a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control .
a method that utilizes a laboratory instrument produced by beckman coulter ,  incorporated which measures the size  ( i .e .
a method that utilizes a laboratory instrument designed to count the number and / or assess the size of small particles  ( e .g .
method which incorporates use of a device which measures the flow velocity of a fluid or gas by measuring the difference of the transit time of ultrasonic pulses propagating in and against flow direction .
a method for measuring the atomic composition of a solution or solid substance by converting it to a vapor state and measuring either the emission or absorption of electromagnetic radiation by the component atoms .
a form of atomic spectroscopy in which one observes the emission of light at discrete wavelengths by atoms which have been electronically excited by collisions with other atoms and molecules in a hot gas .
a type of atomic spectroscopy in which the light emitted by atoms and ions in an inductively coupled plasma is observed .
a spectroanalytical procedure for the quantitative determination of chemical elements employing the absorption of optical radiation  ( light )  by free atoms in the gaseous state .
a laboratory test which measures the level of triglyceride ,  the naturally occurring ester of three fatty acids and glycerol that is the chief constituent of fat ,  in whole blood .
a laboratory test which measures the level of triglyceride ,  the naturally occurring ester of three fatty acids and glycerol that is the chief constituent of fat ,  in plasma .
any method by which a bodily fluid such as blood ,  lymph ,  urine ,  etc .
method in which a hollow ,  flexible tube is inserted into the ureter ,  the duct that conveys urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder ,  and urine is collected .
any method which measures the level or type of energy emitted by an isotope having an unstable nucleus and emitting characteristic radiation during its decay to a stable form .
a method for measuring radiation emitted from radioactive isotopes suspended in a solvent containing a fluor or scintillant which converts the isotope's emissions into pulses of light which are in turn detected by a photomultiplier .
any method to determine one or more biologic factors ,  i .e . ,  variables that influence the viability and / or functioning of living cells or tissues ,  in isolated cells .
an assay which measures the amount of hydrolysis of fat and / or lipids in isolated cells .
an assay which measures the active transport of radioactively labeled glucose into isolated cells .
an assay which measures the active transport of radioactively labeled glucose into isolated cells in which the incorporated glucose is measured by counting all or a portion of the sample in a liquid scintillation counter .
an assay which measures the active transport of fluorescently labeled glucose into isolated cells .
assay which measures release of glycerol ,  the trihydroxy sugar alcohol that is the backbone of many lipids ,  from isolated cells such as adipocytes to quantifiy the hydrolysis of fat and / or lipids in the cells .
assay which measures release of free fatty acids from isolated cells such as adipocytes to quantifiy the hydrolysis of fat and / or lipids in the cells .
an analytical technique for identifying and characterizing minute amounts of a substance by excitation of the substance with a beam of ultraviolet light and detection and measurement of the characteristic wavelength of fluorescent light emitted .
any method used to measure the ability of whole blood or blood platelets to aggregate ,  coagulate or clot .
method which uses changes in the transmission of light through blood or platelet rich plasma during aggregation to assess the ability of the platelets in the sample to aggregate ,  coagulate or clot in response to an agonist .
method to determine the level or concentration of calcium inside isolated cells .
method which employs a fluorescent dye to assess the level or concentration inside isolated cells .
method which employs fura - 2 or a related compound such as fura 2 - am ,  its membrane - permeable derivative ,  to measure the amount or concentration of calcium inside isolated cells .
a test which measures the amount of nitrogen present in the blood in the form of urea ,  the chief nitrogenous end product of protein metabolism .
any method which can be used to measure movement of all or part of the body of an organism ,  including those categorized or interpreted as behavior .
a method utilizing a piece of physical instrumentation ,  machinery or equipment designed and used to measure the movements and / or behaviors of an organism .
a test utilizing an experimental instrument composed of a demarcated area used to measure and / or record movement or behavior of an organism .
a method that utilizes an experimental apparatus made up of multiple components which requires that an experimental subject makes a choice or a series of choices and / or learn a specific solution to a problem .
a test utilizing an enclosure consisting of a single area bordered by clear or opaque walls ,  used to measure movement ,  exploratory behavior ,  etc of an experimental subject .
the open center area of an open field apparatus ,  an enclosure consisting of a single area bordered by clear or opaque walls ,  used to measure movement ,  exploratory behavior ,  etc of an experimental subject .
any part of the area immediately adjacent to the walls of an open field apparatus ,  an enclosure consisting of a single area bordered by clear or opaque walls ,  used to measure movement ,  exploratory behavior ,  etc of an experimental subject .
the area immediately adjacent to the junction of two walls in a square or rectangular open field apparatus ,  an enclosure consisting of a single area bordered by clear or opaque walls ,  used to measure movement ,  exploratory behavior ,  etc of an experimental subject .
a method which utilizes an experimental apparatus consisting of four arms ,  usually two enclosed and two open ,  in the shape of a plus  (  +  )  upon which the test animal can walk .
the area in an elevated plus maze apparatus where the four arms meet .
any of the arms ,  either open or enclosed ,  of an elevated plus maze apparatus ,  an experimental apparatus which consists of four arms ,  usually two enclosed and two open ,  in the shape of a plus  (  +  )  upon which the test animal can walk .
one or both of the arms of an elevated plus maze apparatus which are bounded on two or three sides by walls ,  forming an observable enclosure .
one or both of the arms of an elevated plus maze apparatus which are not bounded or enclosed with walls .
a method which utilizes an experimental apparatus consisting of three arms all or any of which may or may not be enclosed ,  in the shape of a t upon which the test animal can walk .
one or both  ( if there are two )  arms of an elevated t - maze apparatus which are bounded on two or three sides by walls ,  forming an observable enclosure .
one or both  ( if there are two )  arms of an elevated t - maze apparatus which are not bounded or enclosed by walls .
any method for measuring creatinine ,  the nitrogenous compound formed as the end product of creatine metabolism ,  in whole blood ,  serum or plasma .
any method for measuring creatinine ,  the nitrogenous compound formed as the end product of creatine metabolism ,  in serum .
any assay which measures the amount ,  level or concentration of urea in whole blood .
an assay which measures the amount ,  level or concentration of urea ,  the chief nitrogenous endproduct of protein metabolism ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a test which measures the amount of nitrogen in the form of urea present in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely .
any test which measures the amount of creatinine ,  the metabolized by - product of creatine ,  an organic acid that assists the body in producing muscle contractions ,  in urine .
any method which measures the length an organ ,  tissue or other body part after it has been removed from the body .
any method which measures the physical dimensions ,  proportions ,  magnitude ,  or extent of an organ ,  tissue or other body part after it has been removed from the body .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  particles in a sample of whole blood .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  particles in blood .
a test which determines total amount of cholesterol in blood ,  including cholesterol carried in any and all types of lipoprotein molecules .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in very - low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  particles in blood .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  particles in a sample of plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  particles in plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a test which determines total amount of cholesterol carried in lipoprotein ,  such as high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  ,  low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  and very - low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  ,  molecules in a volume of plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in very - low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  particles in a volume of plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any method which is based upon division of the molecules in a mixture ,  solution or suspension into constituent or distinct elements on the basis of one or more chemical or physical properties .
the separation of ionic solutes based on differences in their rates of migration in an applied electric field .
a method of separating and identifying the components of a complex mixture by differential movement through a two - phase system ,  in which the movement is effected by a flow of a liquid or a gas  ( mobile phase )  which percolates through an adsorbent  ( stationary phase )  or a second liquid phase .
a method of separating and identifying the components of a complex mixture by differential movement through a two - phase system ,  in which the movement is effected by a flow of a liquid ,  mobile phase over a stationary phase composed of a thin layer of adsorbent such as silica gel ,  alumina ,  or cellulose on a flat ,  inert substrate .
a test of the acidity or alkalinity of blood ,  expressed as the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration expressed in molarity .
any test dealing with the electrical properties of biological cells .
an electrophysiological technique that uses a microelectrode to record current flow across a cell membrane or a piece of a cell membrane ,  thus permitting the study of a single or multiple ion channels in a cell .
a patch clamp technique which uses an electrode inserted into an intact cell in such a way that a high resistance seal is maintained between the electrode and the plasma membrane ,  allowing measurement of currents through multiple ion channels across the entire cell membrane .
use of an automated analyzer to quantitate the number of platelets ,  the small ,  non - nucleated cell fragments whose activity is essential to blood clotting ,  in a specified volume of blood .
any method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of hemoglobin ,  the oxygen - carrying complex in red blood cells ,  in blood .
a test utilizing a standard cage or chamber which is unfamiliar to the subjects before the start of the experimental procedure .
a method using a standard cage or chamber which is unfamiliar to the subjects before the start of the experimental procedure and which incorporates any type of system to detect ,  measure and record movement automatically .
a method which utilizes an experimental apparatus consisting of a ring - shaped runway with the same amount of area devoted to adjacent ,  i .e .
either of two unwalled segments of an elevated zero maze apparatus ,  a ring - shaped runway with the same amount of area devoted to adjacent ,  i .e .
either of two walled segments of an elevated zero maze apparatus ,  a ring - shaped runway with the same amount of area devoted to adjacent ,  i .e .
a test using a box divided into two halves in which an experimental animal must move from one compartment to the other in order to gain their reward or to avoid an adverse stimulus .
a test measuring movements made in response to adverse stimuli ,  such as loud noises ,  bright lights or foot shocks ,  administered in a two - sided box in which an experimental animal must move from one compartment to the other in order to avoid such stimuli .
an assay in which a radioactive substrate us used to quantitate enzyme activity in a sample or in which a radioactive cofactor or substrate with an added enzyme is used to quantitate the level of another substrate in a sample .
an assay of the catalytic activity of an enzyme based on the use of a radioactive substrate .
an assay utilizing an extrinsic ,  that is ,  added enzyme and radioactive cofactor or substrate to quantitate another enzymatic substrate in a sample .
a laboratory test which measures the level of free fatty acids in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a laboratory test which measures the level of free fatty acids in plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a technique for separating and sorting cells marked with a fluorescent label based on how much they fluoresce at a particular wavelength .
a method to measure one or more hormones in blood .
a method which measures aldosterone in the blood .
any method which measures aldosterone ,  a mineralocorticoid steroid hormone produced by the adrenal cortex with action in the renal tubule to retain sodium ,  conserve water by reabsorption ,  and increase urinary excretion of potassium ,  in plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any method which measures aldosterone ,  a mineralocorticoid steroid hormone produced by the adrenal cortex with action in the renal tubule to retain sodium ,  conserve water by reabsorption ,  and increase urinary excretion of potassium ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any method to determine the level of glucose ,  the end product of carbohydrate metabolism ,  in plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any method to determine the level of glucose ,  the end product of carbohydrate metabolism ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any method used to measure the rate of flow of liquids or gases in a living organism .
a method for measuring the rate of flow of liquids or gases in which a conductive liquid flowing through a tube such as a blood vessel in a living organism is subjected to a magnetic field and the resultant voltage ,  which is proportional to the velocity of movement ,  is measured .
any method by which the level or concentration in a sample of blood of insulin is measured .
any method of measuring the level or concentration of insulin in a sample of plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any method of measuring the level or concentration of insulin in a sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a laboratory test which measures the level of one or more phospholipids ,  phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule ,  in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
a laboratory test which measures the level of one or more phospholipids ,  phosphorous - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule ,  in plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a laboratory test which measures the level of one or more phospholipids ,  phosphorous - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a test in which glucose is injected into a vein and blood samples taken afterward at specified interval ( s )  to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood .
any technique by which an unknown color ,  that is ,  the color of a sample ,  is evaluated in terms of standard colors .
a technique by which the color of a sample following a reaction carried out in or on a material characterized by structural rigidity and resistance to changes of shape or volume ,  such as a sheet of paper or plastic strip ,  is evaluated in terms of standard colors .
a technique by which the color of a sample following a reaction carried out in solution ,  that is ,  in a substance composed of molecules that can move about relatively freely and which exhibits a characteristic readiness to flow ,  little or no tendency to disperse ,  and relatively high incompressibility ,  is evaluated in terms of standard colors .
method of assessing the amount of one or more proteins  ( complex high molecular weight organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages )  or peptides  ( low molecular weight compounds composed of at least two amino acids joined by peptide linkages )  in a solution ,  using a technique in which the color of that solution ,  usually after a chemical or enzymatic reaction ,  is compared to standard colors .
method of assessing the amount of one or more proteins ,  complex high molecular weight organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in a solution using a technique in which the color of that solution ,  usually after a chemical or enzymatic reaction ,  is evaluated based on its ability to alter the transmission of light at specific wavelengths in the visible spectrum ,  that is ,  to alter the transmission of a specific color of light ,  using a spectrophotometer .
method of assessing the total amount of protein ,  complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in a specified sample of urine based upon measuring the shift in the absorption that occurs when a complex of pyrogallol red and molybdate binds to basic amino acid groups of protein molecules in the sample .
method of assessing the amount of one or more proteins ,  complex high molecular weight organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in a solution using a technique in which the color of that solution ,  usually after a chemical or enzymatic reaction ,  is evaluated through the use of sight to compare the output with a standard color scale .
any method of assessing one or more proteins ,  complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
any method of assessing the entire amount of protein ,  complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in a sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
any method of assessing very low levels of albumin ,  the major blood plasma protein which is responsible for much of the plasma colloidal osmotic pressure and serves as a transport protein for large organic anions such as fatty acids and bilirubin ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
method in which ultrasonic waves directed through the heart are reflected backward ,  or echoed ,  when they pass from one type of tissue to another ,  such as from cardiac muscle to blood ,  to create an image of the heart muscle and show the size ,  shape ,  and movement of the heart's valves and chambers as well as the flow of blood through the heart .
a multistep process in which a mixture of dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  is separated by gel electrophoresis ,  that is ,  separation of ionic solutes based on differences in rate of migration in an applied electric field using a semisolid colloid such as agarose or acrylamide as the support medium ,  followed by transfer to a membrane such as nitrocellulose or nylon and detection of specific rnas by hybridization of a tagged or labelled polynucleotide ,  usually a single dna fragment with a specific ,  known sequence .
use of a myograph to study muscle contraction after removal of the tissue from the body .
a method which uses wires threaded through segments of isolated blood vessels and connected to a myograph ,  a device for quantifying contractile properties of muscles  ( e .g .
a postmortem examination of a body to determine the cause of death or the character and extent of changes produced by disease .
a postmortem examination of the body of an animal to determine the cause of death or the character and extent of changes produced by disease .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the amount and / or composition of proteins ,  complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in blood .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the amount and / or composition of proteins ,  complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the entire amount of protein ,  the mix of complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the amount of bicarbonate ,  an anion of carbonic acid in which only one of the hydrogen atoms has been removed ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure albumin ,  the major blood plasma protein which is responsible for much of the plasma colloidal osmotic pressure and serves as a transport protein for large organic anions such as fatty acids and bilirubin ,  in blood .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure albumin ,  the major blood plasma protein which is responsible for much of the plasma colloidal osmotic pressure and serves as a transport protein for large organic anions such as fatty acids and bilirubin ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure albumin ,  the major blood plasma protein which is responsible for much of the plasma colloidal osmotic pressure and serves as a transport protein for large organic anions such as fatty acids and bilirubin ,  in plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the amount and / or composition of proteins ,  complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the level of creatinine ,  the catabolic product of creatine ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the level of creatinine ,  the catabolic product of creatine ,  in plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the entire amount of protein ,  the mix of complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in blood .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the entire amount of protein ,  the mix of complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in plasma ,  the fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any method by which the size of the three dimensional space occupied by a sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys ,  is determined .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure protein ,  complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in a sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the entire amount of protein ,  complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in a sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure albumin ,  the major blood plasma protein which is responsible for much of the plasma colloidal osmotic pressure and serves as a transport protein for large organic anions such as fatty acids and bilirubin ,  in urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
any method that utilizes a device consisting of a continuous moving belt which allows a subject to walk or run while physically remaining in one place .
a method that utilizes a device consisting of a continuous moving belt which allows a subject to walk or run while physically remaining in one place ,  containing an apparatus which delivers a relatively low voltage flow of electricity to the body if the subject leaves the belt .
a scanning technique which directs alternating x - ray energy from two separate sources  ( high energy and low energy )  towards bone at a set frequency .
a computed tomography  ( ct )  technique that measures bone mineral density  ( bmd )  in either the axial or appendicular skeleton using a calibration standard to convert the hounsfield units  ( hu )  of the ct image to bmd values .
a computed tomography  ( ct )  technique that uses a low radiation dose to measure bone mineral density  ( bmd )  in the appendicular skeleton ,  utilizing a calibration standard  ( 'phantoms' )  to convert the hounsfield units  ( hu )  of the ct image to bmd values .
using x - rays or gamma rays to create records of the internal structures of an organ or other body part after removal from the body .
a computed tomography  ( ct )  technique that uses a low radiation dose to measure bone mineral density  ( bmd )  of a bone after removal from the body and possibly after removal of the surrounding tissues such as the muscle ,  utilizing a calibration standard  ( 'phantoms' )  to convert the hounsfield units  ( hu )  of the ct image to bmd values .
an instrument used for manual ,  microscopic counting of cells in suspension and consisting of a glass microscope slide with a rectangular indentation that creates a chamber .
method of assessing the amount of nitrite ,  the nitrogen oxoanion chemical formula no2 (  -  )  ,  in a solution using a technique in which the color of that solution ,  usually after a chemical or enzymatic reaction ,  is compared to a color standard .
method of assessing the amount of nitrite ,  the nitrogen oxoanion chemical formula no2 (  -  )  ,  in a solution by treating with a diazotizing reagent ,  e .g .
any method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of a biological fluid ,  that is a liquid produced by a living organism ,  after that fluid has been removed or excreted from the body .
any method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of a fluid ,  often resulting from inflammation and with a high content of protein ,  cells and / or cellular debris ,  which has escaped from blood vessels and has been deposited in tissues or on tissue surfaces .
any method to assess nitrite ,  the nitrogen oxoanion chemical formula no2 (  -  )  ,  in exudate ,  a fluid ,  often resulting from inflammation and with a high content of protein ,  cells and / or cellular debris ,  which has escaped from blood vessels and has been deposited in tissues or on tissue surfaces .
any method to assess nitrite ,  the nitrogen oxoanion chemical formula no2 (  -  )  ,  in urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
any method to assess nitrite ,  the nitrogen oxoanion chemical formula no2 (  -  )  ,  in blood the fluid circulating through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries ,  and veins ,  carrying nutrients and oxygen to body cells ,  and removing waste products and carbon dioxide .
method of assessing the amount of nitrite ,  the nitrogen oxoanion chemical formula no2 (  -  )  ,  in a sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys ,  by treating with a diazotizing reagent ,  e .g .
method of assessing the amount of nitrite ,  the nitrogen oxoanion chemical formula no2 (  -  )  ,  in exudate ,  a fluid ,  often resulting from inflammation and with a high content of protein ,  cells and / or cellular debris ,  which has escaped from blood vessels and has been deposited in tissues or on tissue surfaces ,  by treating a sample of exudate with a diazotizing reagent ,  e .g .
method of assessing the amount of nitrite ,  the nitrogen oxoanion chemical formula no2 (  -  )  ,  in blood the fluid circulating through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries ,  and veins ,  carrying nutrients and oxygen to body cells ,  and removing waste products and carbon dioxide ,  by treating a sample of blood with a diazotizing reagent ,  e .g .
a spectroanalytical procedure for the quantitative determination of chemical elements employing the absorption of optical radiation  ( light )  by free atoms in the gaseous state ,  in this case generated by a flame atomizer ,  e .g .
a spectroanalytical procedure for the quantitative determination of chemical elements employing the absorption of optical radiation  ( light )  by free atoms in the gaseous state ,  in this case generated by vaporization of the sample in an electrically heated apparatus coated with graphite ,  a soft hexagonally - crystallized allotrope of carbon .
a method that utilizes a device consisting of a continuous moving belt which allows a subject to walk or run while physically remaining in one place and connected to or incorporating a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to record output such as distance ,  speed ,  time ,  etc .
a method that utilizes a device consisting of a continuous moving belt which allows a subject to walk or run while physically remaining in one place and incorporating both an apparatus which delivers a relatively low voltage flow of electricity to the body if the subject leaves the belt and a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to record output such as distance ,  speed ,  time ,  etc .
a method whereby the radiation emitted by a radioisotope or other energy source is directed at a part of the body and the degree to which that radiation is dissipated within the tissue is measured .
a method used to measure ,  for instance ,  bone mineral content in the axial skeleton ,  particularly the lumbar spine ,  by comparing transmission of the two separate photoelectric energy peaks  ( gamma rays )  emitted by gadolinium 153 through both soft and bone tissues .
a scanning technique in which a single - energy photon beam ,  that is ,  a beam of electromagnetic radiation of a single energy ,  is passed through a material such as bone in order to measure its density .
any analytical method in which a property such as concentration of an analyte is determined by measuring the potential  ( volts )  and / or current  ( amperes )  in an electrochemical cell containing the analyte .
a polarographic method for measuring oxygen  ( o2 )  ,  the chemical element with atomic number 8 which is the essential agent in the respiration of plants and animals ,  in which a voltage is applied to a platinum electrode covered by a semipermiable membrane specific for oxygen resulting in the reduction of o2 according to the reaction  [ o2  +  4e -   +  2 h2o  -  -  >  4 oh -  ]  and the production of a measurable current in proportion to the oxygen tension in the measured sample .
a procedure or technique  by which a morphological or physiological state or property in a single individual or sample or a group of individuals or samples is assessed and a quantitative or qualitative value assigned ,  where that procedure is based on the action of one or more enzymes ,  proteins that catalyze chemical reactions of other substances without themselves being destroyed or altered upon completion of the reaction ( s )  .
a procedure or technique based on the action of one or more enzymes ,  proteins that catalyze chemical reactions of other substances without themselves being destroyed or altered upon completion of the reaction ( s )  ,  used to assess one or more lipids ,  any of a structurally diverse group of organic compounds that are insoluble in water but soluble innonpolar solvents and that ,  among other biological functions ,  serve as a source of fuel and are an important constituent of cell structure .
a procedure or technique based on the action of one or more enzymes ,  proteins that catalyze chemical reactions of other substances without themselves being destroyed or altered upon completion of the reaction ( s )  ,  used to assess cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes .
a procedure or technique based on the action of one or more enzymes ,  proteins that catalyze chemical reactions of other substances without themselves being destroyed or altered upon completion of the reaction ( s )  ,  used to assess triglyceride ,  a neutral fat compound that consists of three molecules of fatty acids bound with one molecule of glycerol and that is the usual storage form of lipids in animals .
a procedure or technique by which the size of the three dimensional space occupied by a liquid substance is ascertained using a pipette ,  a glass or transparent plastic tube used in measuring or transferring relatively small quantities of liquids .
a procedure or technique by which the size of the three dimensional space occupied by a liquid substance is ascertained using a calibrated mohr pipette ,  a glass or transparent plastic tube with a series of graduated markings on it indicating volumes which has been checked and / or adjusted by comparison with a standard to ensure the accuracy of the measurement .
a high pressure form of liquid column chromatography in which the solvent is forced through the column under high pressures of up to 400 atmospheres rather than being allowed to drip through the column under gravity .
a capless ,  hollow ,  graduated cylinder designed to dispense liguid nourishment .
the manner ,  procedure or technique by which a morphological or physiological state or property in a bone is assessed and a quantitative or qualitative value assigned .
isolated bone method in which the bone is held in a material testing apparatus consisting of three fittings  ( anvils or pins )  -  - two supporting the bone from below and one positioned equidistant between them applying a specified force from above .
isolated bone method in which the bone is held in a material testing apparatus consisting of four fittings  ( anvils or pins )  -  - two supporting the bone from below and two positioned at a defined distance either side of the center applying a specified force from above .
isolated bone method in which the bone is held in a material testing apparatus between two plates or platens and a force or load is applied which presses or squeezes the plates together at a specified rate ,  often until fracture .
isolated bone method in which the ends of the bone are embedded in blocks of a support material or otherwise secured and  subjected to an applied torque ,  that is a force applied in a twisting motion such that the two blocks rotate in parallel planes in opposite directlons relative to one another .
a procedure or technique in which a morphological or physiological state or property of a living body or in situ body part is evaluated ,  appraised or perceived through the sense of sight by watching a stored image - based record of the organism ,  body or body part ,  for example a videotape or a stored video file .
a method utilizing an experimental apparatus consisting of an open pool of water with a submerged escape platform ,  often with a set of visual cues such as colored shapes around the perimeter .
a scaled down version of an analytical method based on the reaction ( s )  of one or more enzymes ,  proteins that catalyze chemical reactions of other substances without themselves being destroyed or altered upon completion of those reactions ,  to assess properties ,  such as concentration ,  of a target chemical in small volume samples .
a separation method in which a liquid mixture is applied to a tube or cylinder filled with a solid adsorbent ,  the stationary phase .
a procedure or technique in which a wire electrode ,  a thread - like filament of metal for conducting an electrical current ,  is inserted into a specified location within the body ,  such as in or on a central or peripheral nerve ,  in order to monitor and record electrical activity .
any method of assessing the amount of albumin ,  the major blood plasma protein which is responsible for much of the plasma colloidal osmotic pressure and serves as a transport protein for large organic anions such as fatty acids and bilirubin ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
the process of producing images by the action of radiant energy and especially light on a sensitive surface such as film or an optical sensor ,  of a part of an organism ,  such as an organ ,  tissue ,  or cell ,  after removal from the body .
the process of producing images of an entire living organism ,  or of a part of a living organism such as an organ or tissue recorded in situ ,  by the action of radiant energy and especially light on a sensitive surface such as film or an optical sensor .
the process of producing images of an entire living organism ,  or of a part of a living organism such as an organ or tissue recorded in situ ,  by the action of radiant energy and especially light on a sensitive surface such as film or an optical sensor followed by use of computer software to analyze or assist in the analysis of the resulting images .
the process of producing images by the action of radiant energy and especially light on a sensitive surface such as film or an optical sensor ,  of a part of an organism ,  such as an organ ,  tissue ,  or cell ,  after removal from the body ,  followed by use of computer software to analyze or assist in the analysis of the resulting images .
a method which utilizes a platform that can be inclined ,  i .e . ,  the position of which can be made to deviate from the horizontal ,  at or through a series of specified angles .
a method which utilizes a platform that can be inclined ,  i .e . ,  the position of which can be made to deviate from the horizontal ,  in which the angle of inclination is continuously either increased or decreased and measurements are made while the platform is in motion .
a method which utilizes a platform that can be inclined ,  i .e . ,  the position of which can be made to deviate from the horizontal ,  in which the angle of inclination is either increased or decreased in fixed increments and measurements are made while the platform is not moving .
a method in which a subject is placed ,  for example on its back ,  in an apparatus with two inclined sides that come to a point at the bottom forming a narrow open container with a triangular cross - section .
a method performed in or on a living body ,  for example ,  a procedure performed on an organ in situ or on the entire living organism ,  consisting of the examination or observation of material using a light microscope ,  an optical instrument that employs visible light  ( electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths between approximately 390 and 700 nm )  processed through a lens or a combination of lenses to produce magnified images .
examination or observation of material ,  performed in or on a living body ,  for example ,  a procedure performed on an organ in situ or on the entire living organism ,  which employs a stereo light microscope ,  an optical instrument that uses visible light  ( electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths between approximately 390 and 700 nm )  processed through a dual lens system ,  arranged in such a way that for the observer each eye or for a recording device each optical input receives a magnified image from a separate lens ,  generating a three - dimensional view .
examination or observation of material ,  performed outside the living body ,  which employs a stereo light microscope ,  an optical instrument that uses visible light  ( electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths between approximately 390 and 700 nm )  processed through a dual lens system ,  arranged in such a way that for the observer each eye or for a recording device each optical input receives a magnified image from a separate lens ,  generating a three - dimensional view .
examination or observation of material ,  performed outside the living body ,  which incorporates use of stereo light microscopy to produce picture files stored as data expressed in a discrete numerical form ,  followed by use of computer software to evaluate these resulting microscopic images .
examination or observation of material ,  performed in or on a living body ,  for example ,  a procedure performed on an organ in situ or on the entire living organism ,  which incorporates use of stereo light microscopy to produce picture files stored digitally ,  that is ,  as data expressed in a discrete numerical form ,  followed by use of computer software to evaluate these resulting microscopic images .
a method performed in or on a living body ,  for example ,  a procedure performed on an organ in situ or on the entire living organism ,  which incorporates use of light microscopy to produce picture files stored as data expressed in a discrete numerical form ,  followed by use of computer software to evaluate these resulting microscopic images .
a method performed outside the living body ,  e .g . ,  on isolated tissue ,  which incorporates use of light microscopy and immunohistochemistry to produce picture files stored as data expressed in a discrete numerical form ,  followed by use of computer software to evaluate these resulting microscopic images .
any method of assessing the amount or composition of protein ,  complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in a sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys ,  through the use of colorimetry .
the bca protein assay combines the protein - induced biuret reaction in which peptide bonds in the protein reduce cu2 +  ions to cu +  in a reaction proportional to the amount of protein present ,  followed by chelation of bicinchoninic acid molecules with cu +  ions ,  forming a purple - colored product which can be quantitated by spectrophotometry ,  i .e . ,  based on the ability of the solution to alter the transmission of light at specific wavelengths in the visible spectrum ,  that is ,  to alter the transmission of a specific color of light .
the lowry assay is an enhanced biuret test involving copper chelation chemistry to assess the amount of protein ,  any of a group of complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in a specified sample .
the bradford assay of protein concentration is based on an absorbance shift of the dye coomassie brilliant blue g - 250 .
a method to determine the entire amount of all proteins ,  any of a group of complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a method to determine the entire amount of all proteins ,  any of a group of complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any method which quantifies the catalytic effect exerted by an enzyme ,  a protein that acts as a catalyst ,  increasing the rate at which a chemical reaction occurs without itself being destroyed or altered upon completion of the reaction ,  in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
a method which quantifies the catalytic effect exerted by renin in a specified sample of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
a method which quantifies the catalytic effect exerted by renin in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a method which quantifies the catalytic effect exerted by renin in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a method which assesses the amount ,  proportions or properties of one or more electrolytes ,  any of various ions required by cells to regulate the electric charge and flow of water molecules across the cell membrane ,  in urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
a method which assesses the amount ,  proportions or properties of sodium in urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
a method which assesses the amount ,  proportions or properties of potassium in urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
a method of assessing the amount of albumin ,  the major blood plasma protein which is responsible for much of the plasma colloidal osmotic pressure and which serves as a transport protein for large organic anions such as fatty acids and bilirubin ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
any technique involving diffusion of antigen and / or antibody through a semisolid medium ,  resulting in a precipitin reaction ,  i .e .
a technique for detecting antibody - antigen interactions ,  where antigens and antibodies are placed into separate wells cut into a gel matrix and allowed to diffuse towards each other .
a technique used to determine the quantity of an antigen by measuring the diameters of circles of precipitin complexes surrounding samples of the antigen that mark the boundary between the antigen and an antibody suspended in a gel .
a technique used to determine the quantity of an antibody in a sample by measuring the diameters of circles of precipitin complexes surrounding a well in a gel such as agar in which the sample is placed .
any method of determining the concentration ,  relative activity ,  or effects of a biologically active substance in a sample by comparing its effect on an organism ,  on an isolated tissue or on isolated cells in culture ,  with that of a reference standard .
a method of determining the concentration ,  relative activity or effects of a biologically active substance in a sample based on the effect of the sample on the reproduction or multiplication of cells ,  especially of cells which depend for their viability and / or reproduction on a particular substance of interest .
a method to determine the entire amount of all proteins ,  any of a group of complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
a procedure or technique performed outside the living body by which the catalytic activity of an enzyme  ( a protein that catalyzes chemical reactions of other substances without itself being destroyed or altered upon completion of the reactions )  is assessed and a quantitative or qualitative value assigned .
any method ,  manual or automated ,  by which the number of cells in a sample of blood assessed and a value assigned .
a method performed by hand ,  i .e . ,  by a human and not by an automated machine ,  by which the number of cells in a sample of blood assessed and a value assigned .
a method performed by which a human uses a hemocytometer to assess the number of cells in a sample of blood and assign a value .
this is a test done by a machine physically interacting with isolated bone .
a method of determining the concentration ,  relative activity or effects of a biologically active substance in a sample based on the amount of radioactive thymidine ,  e .g . ,  h3 - thymidine ,  taken up by a culture of reporter cells  ( cells which depend for their viability and / or reproduction on the substance of interest )  following application of the sample .
an electroanalytical technique which employs a sensor that converts the activity of a specific ion dissolved in a solution into an electrical potential and measures the resulting potential using a voltmeter or potentiometer .
an electroanalytical technique which employs a sensor that converts the activity of a chloride ions  ( the chemical element with atomic number 17 ,  that has gained one electron forming an anion with a charge of  - 1 )  in a solution into an electrical potential and measures the resulting potential using a voltmeter or potentiometer .
an electroanalytical technique which employs a sensor that converts the activity of sodium ions  ( the chemical element with atomic number 11 ,  that has lost one electron forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 )  in a solution into an electrical potential and measures the resulting potential using a voltmeter or potentiometer .
an electroanalytical technique which employs a sensor that converts the activity of potassium ions  ( chemical element with atomic number 19 ,  that has lost one electron forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 )  in a solution into an electrical potential and measures the resulting potential using a voltmeter or potentiometer .
a method utilizing a piece of physical instrumentation ,  machinery or equipment designed and used to measure the movements and / or behaviors of an organism ,  that makes use of a mechanical transducer to convert a physical / mechanical force or displacement signal to another ,  recordable ,  signal type .
a method which utilizes a piece of physical instrumentation ,  machinery or equipment designed and used to measure the movements and / or behaviors of an organism in which a piezoelectric accelerometer converts mechanical force into an electrical signal that can be measured by the recording instrument .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to assess the amount ,  proportions or properties of sodium in urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
a test of the acidity or alkalinity of urine ,  expressed as the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration expressed in molarity .
a modified version of the elisa  ( enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay )  protocol in which viable cells are plated onto membranes treated with antibodies against the molecule of interest .
a rapid technique for in vitro amplification of specific dna or rna sequences ,  allowing small quantities of short sequences to be analyzed without cloning .
real - time pcr is able to detect sequence - specific pcr products as they accumulate in 'real - time' during the pcr amplification process .
a polymerase chain reaction  ( pcr )  technique for specifically amplifying rna by converting the rgd molecules in the complimentary dna through the use of a reverse transcriptase enzyme reaction before proceding with the pcr reaction .
real - time pcr in which a sample of rna is first reverse transcribed to convert the rna into complementary dna  ( cdna )  and then a quantitative real - time pcr reaction is carried out on the resulting sample .
a solid phase colorimetric assay utilizing a strip of paper ,  or of plastic with one or more attached pads of paper ,  impregnated with a reagent that specifically reacts with potassium ions .
a solid phase colorimetric assay utilizing a strip of paper ,  or of plastic with one or more attached pads of paper ,  impregnated with a reagent that specifically reacts with sodium ions .
a procedure for making graphic records of the variations in electrical potential caused by electrical activity of the heart muscle in which the sensor is located within the body and the measurement is based on data transmitted by radio waves from the subject to the recording apparatus .
a laboratory test which measures all ,  i .e .
a laboratory test which measures the level of one or more phospholipids ,  phosphorous - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule ,  in a lipoprotein fraction of serum .
any chromatographic technique ,  i .e .
any of a group of analytical separation techniques used to analyze volatile substances in the gas phase .
an analytical separation technique used to analyze volatile substances in the gas phase .
an analytical separation technique used to analyze volatile substances in the gas phase .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  particles in blood .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  particles in a sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a test which determines the amount of cholesterol carried in intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  particles in a sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  fraction of blood .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  fraction of blood .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  fraction of blood .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the very - low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  fraction of blood .
a laboratory test which measures all ,  i .e .
a laboratory test which measures all ,  i .e .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  fraction of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  fraction of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  fraction of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  fraction of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  fraction of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  fraction of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the very - low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  fraction of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  found in the very - low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  fraction of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any laboratory test which measures the amount of cholesterol carried by or specifically associated with a particular type of  lipoprotein  ( a complex particle that consists of a protein layer surrounding a core of lipids )  in blood .
any laboratory test which measures the amount of phospholipid  ( phosphorus - containing lipids composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule )  specifically associated with a particular type of lipoprotein ,  a complex that consists of a protein layer surrounding a core of lipids ,  in blood .
any laboratory test which measures one or more properties such as the amount ,  composition ,  etc of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  in blood .
any procedure or technique performed in or on a living body ,  for example ,  a procedure performed on an organ in situ or on the entire living organism ,  by which a measurement is made in a straight line that connects two points directly .
a procedure to measure the full length of the intact body of an organism ,  that is ,  the extent of the body along its greatest dimension ,  which employs a measuring stick ,  a measuring instrument having a sequence of marks at regular intervals ;  used as a reference in making measurements of length .
a procedure to measure the full length of the intact body of an organism ,  that is ,  the extent of the body along its greatest dimension ,  which employs a ruler ,  a strip of wood ,  metal ,  or other material ,  having straight edges and graduated ,  for example in millimetres or inches ,  used for measuring lengths .
a procedure or technique performed outside  ( i .e . ,  distinct from or removed from )  the living body by which a measurement is made in a straight line that connects two points directly .
the anatomical study of the microscopic structure of animal and plant tissues .
the branch of histology dealing with the identification of chemical components in cells and tissues ,  especially the microscopic analysis of chemical components and / or structures in cells and tissues by staining ,  directly or indirectly ,  with fluorescent or pigmented materials .
microscopic analysis of structure and / or localization of specific antigens in cells and tissues by staining with antibodies labeled with fluorescent or pigmented material .
a procedure or technique performed outside  ( i .e . ,  distinct from or removed from )  the living body by which a measurement is made in a straight line that connects two points directly on a microscopic scale ,  that is ,  using an instrument to obtain an enlarged image of small objects and reveal details of structure not otherwise distinguishable .
a procedure or technique performed outside  ( i .e . ,  distinct from or removed from )  the living body by which a measurement is made in a straight line that directly connects two points using an electron microscopea microscope using beams of electrons ,  negatively charged elementary particles ,  to produce highly magnified images .
a procedure or technique performed outside  ( i .e . ,  distinct from or removed from )  the living body by which a measurement is made in a straight line that directly connects two points using a light microscope ,  an optical instrument that uses visible light processed through a lens or a combination of lenses to produce magnified images .
any method to determine the strength or biological activity of a drug ,  hormone or other substance by comparing its effects on isolated cells with those of a reference standard ,  or to experimentally investigate the properties or functions of isolated cells .
an experimental procedure to measure the rate ,  level or amount of growth and reproduction of isolated cells .
a method in which sulfosalicylic acid  ( that is ,  the ssa reagent )  is added to a small and equal volume of clear urine .
an experimental method in which an animal  ( for example ,  a rat )  is placed in an experimental apparatus or test cage and subsequently presented with a gloved human hand ,  passively and / or with attempts to handle the animal ,  and reactions are assessed .
an experimental method in which an animal  ( for example ,  a rat )  is placed in an experimental apparatus or test cage and subsequently presented with a gloved human hand ,  passively and / or with attempts to handle the animal and the animal's reactions are recorded .
a procedure in which graphic records of the variations in electrical potential caused by electrical activity of the heart muscle are made utilizing a sensor located within the body with the measurement based on data transmitted by radio waves from the subject to the recording apparatus .
a computed tomography  ( ct )  technique that uses a low radiation dose to analyze  ( for example to determine size or composition )  and / or visualize the internal organs and tissues across the entire body of a living organism .
any method by which the acuity of hearing for the various frequencies of sound waves is measured .
a method of testing hearing ability at the level of the brainstem and / or auditory cortex .
a method which utilizes a metabolic cage ,  a housing unit constructed for the separate collection of liquid and solid wastes and in some cases for measurement of liquid waste ,  to determine  the size of the three dimensional space occupied by a sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
method of assessing the amount one or more end products of lipid peroxidation ,  the oxidative degradation of lipids ,  in a solution using a technique in which the color of that solution ,  usually after a chemical or enzymatic reaction ,  is compared to a color standard .
method of assessing the amount one or more end products of lipid peroxidation ,  the oxidative degradation of lipids ,  in a solution using an assay in which thiobarbituric acid is heated with a tissue or biological fluid sample at an acidic ph to produce a red chromogen .
a procedure or technique performed outside the living body ,  for example ,  a procedure performed on an organ or tissue after removal from the body ,  to measure the thickness or diameter of a solid using a compass with bent or curved legs or a device comprised of a calibrated scale with a fixed jaw ,  and another jaw ,  with a pointer ,  that slides along the scale from which the distance between the two pieces can be read .
a method which makes use of a slide caliper ,  an instrument consisting of a calibrated scale with a fixed jaw ,  and a second  ( movable )  jaw ,  with a pointer ,  that slides along the scale from which the distance between the two pieces can be read .
a method which uses a slide caliper with an electronic digital display on which the measurement is displayed as a single value with a set accuracy and resolution .
a method which uses a slide caliper with dial and arrow that points to the reading to display the finer ,  more precise portion of the measurement .
any method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of sterols in extracted blood .
any method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of phytosterol ( s )  in extracted blood .
a method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of campesterol in extracted blood .
a method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of sitosterol in extracted blood .
a method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of sitosterol in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of sitosterol in plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of campesterol in plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of campesterol in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of lipids in a specified sample of tissue after removal of that tissue from the body .
a method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of triglyceride in a specified sample of tissue after removal of that tissue from the body .
any method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of sterols in a specified sample of tissue after removal of that tissue from the body .
a method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of cholesterol in a specified sample of tissue after removal of that tissue from the body .
any method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of phytosterol ( s )  in a specified sample of tissue after removal of that tissue from the body .
a method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of campesterol in a specified sample of tissue after removal of that tissue from the body .
a method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of sitosterol in a specified sample of tissue after removal of that tissue from the body .
any method ,  manual or automated ,  by which the number ,  specifically of white blood cells  ( leukocytes )  ,  in a sample of blood is assessed and a value assigned .
a method for identifying molecules based on the detection of the mass - to - charge ratio of ions generated from the molecule by vaporisation and electron bombardment .
an analytical technique in that combines the physical separation capabilities of liquid chromatography  ( lc )  with the mass analysis capabilities of mass spectrometry  ( ms )  .
an analytical technique in that combines the physical separation capabilities of gas chromatography  ( gc )  with the mass analysis capabilities of mass spectrometry  ( ms )  .
an analytical technique in that combines the physical separation capabilities of high pressure liquid chromatography  ( hplc )  with the mass analysis capabilities of mass spectrometry  ( ms )  .
a method performed outside the living body ,  for instance ,  on isolated tissue ,  which incorporates use of light microscopy and immunohistochemistry to produce magnified images .
an automated method in which bromocresol green and plasma proteins ,  especially albumin ,  are bound at acidic ph  ( approximately ph 4 .1  -  4 .3 )  to produce a blue to blue - green albumin - bcg complex .
method of assessing the amount of creatinine ,  the metabolized by - product of creatine ,  in a solution using a technique in which the color of that solution ,  usually after a chemical or enzymatic reaction ,  is compared to the color ( s )  of one or more standard solutions of creatinine .
method of assessing the amount of creatinine ,  the metabolized by - product of creatine ,  in a solution using a technique in which the color of that solution ,  usually after a chemical or enzymatic reaction ,  is compared to the one or more standard solutions of creatinine using a spectrophotometer to assess the color and / or level of transmitted light for each solution .
a method for assaying creatinine in a sample using the jaffe reaction ,  the reaction of creatinine and picric acid in an alkaline solution ,  followed by quantitation of the colorimetric readout using a spectrophotometer at 520 nm .
a method for assaying creatinine in urine using the jaffe reaction ,  the reaction of creatinine and picric acid in an alkaline solution ,  followed by quantitation of the colorimetric readout using a spectrophotometer at 520 nm .
a method for assaying the creatinine in plasma  ( the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended )  using the jaffe reaction ,  the reaction of creatinine and picric acid in an alkaline solution ,  followed by quantitation of the colorimetric readout using a spectrophotometer at 520 nm .
a method for assaying the creatinine in blood plasma from which excess proteins have not been removed ,  using the jaffe reaction ,  the reaction of creatinine and picric acid in an alkaline solution ,  followed by quantitation of the colorimetric readout using a spectrophotometer at 520 nm .
a method for assaying the creatinine in deproteinized plasma  ( that is ,  blood plasma from which excess proteins have been removed )  using the jaffe reaction ,  the reaction of creatinine and picric acid in an alkaline solution ,  followed by quantitation of the colorimetric readout using a spectrophotometer at 520 nm .
any examination of one or both eyes using an ophthalmoscope ,  an instrument containing a perforated mirror and lenses used to examine the interior of the eye ,  for instance ,  the retina .
ophthalmoscopy using an ophthalmoscope with a hand - held lens positioned close to the subject's eye that produces an inverted ,  or reversed ,  image of two to five times magnification .
ophthalmoscopy using an ophthalmoscope that produces an upright ,  or unreversed ,  image of the interior of the eye at approximately 15 times magnification .
examination of the eyes using a slit - lamp ,  an instrument in which a high - intensity beam of light is projected through a narrow slit ,  and a cross section of the illuminated part of the eye is examined through a magnifying lens ,  allowing visualization of the external ,  surface ,  and internal segments of the eye ,  including the eyelid ( s )  ,  lashes ,  conjunctiva ,  cornea ,  anterior chamber ,  pupil ,  iris ,  vitreous and ,  when a secondary lens is used ,  the retina .
direct ophthalmoscopy utilizing a slit lamp or slit - lamp apparatus ,  an instrument in which a high - intensity beam of light is projected through a narrow slit for observation of the external ,  surface ,  and internal segments of the eye viewed as an upright ,  or unreversed ,  image .
indirect ophthalmoscopy utilizing a slit lamp or slit - lamp apparatus ,  an instrument in which a high - intensity beam of light is projected through a narrow slit for observation of the interior ,  particularly the retina ,  of the eye .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the physical or chemical characteristics of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the physical or chemical characteristics of  serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
method using a device manufactured by the beckman or beckman coulter company and designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure the physical or chemical characteristics of plasma .
automated analysis of one or more electrolytes ,  substances which dissociate into ions ,  in blood serum .
method of assessing the amount of one or more peptides ,  low molecular weight compounds composed of at least two amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in a solution using a technique in which the color of that solution ,  usually after a chemical or enzymatic reaction ,  is evaluated based on its ability to alter the transmission of light at specific wavelengths in the visible spectrum ,  that is ,  to alter the transmission of a specific color of light ,  using a spectrophotometer .
a method which uses the sequential reduction of glutathione using the enzyme glutathione reductase ,  and oxidation using dtnb  ( 5 , 5' - dithiobis ( 2 - nitrobenzoic acid )  )  to produce the yellow product tnb  ( 5 - mercapto - 2 - nitrobenzoic acid )  that can be quantitated using a spectrophotometer .
a method which utilizes a chamber in which one or more noxious substances or aversive stimulus - inducing devices ,  such as an electrified shock probe are located ,  and in which a movable material such as wood bedding or sand is available .
a method performed outside the living body ,  for instance ,  on isolated cells or tissues ,  which incorporates the use of light microscopy and histochemistry to produce picture files stored as data expressed in a discrete numerical form ,  followed by use of computer software to evaluate these resulting microscopic images .
a method performed outside the living body ,  for instance ,  on isolated cells or tissues ,  which incorporates the use of light microscopy and histochemistry to produce magnified images .
a procedure or technique performed outside the living body of a higher organism by which properties of microorganisms ,  e .g .
the enumeration of individual colonies in a microbial / bacterial culture by distributing a solution containing the microorganisms ,  either straight or  ( more commonly )  as a set of serial dilutions ,  onto a dish containing a base layer of growth medium plus a gelling agent such as agar .
a plate colony counting method that uses conditions which differentially effect the ability of different types of microorganisms to grow .
a plate colony counting method that uses todd - hewitt yeast extract  ( thy )  agar which are selective for certain bacterial species / strains such as streptococcus pneumoniae .
a plate colony counting method that uses supplemented brain - heart infusion  ( sbhi )  agar plates to which hemin / heme ,  nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide  ( nad )  and the antibiotic vancomycin have been added .
a method that utilizes a device consisting of a rotating rod the speed of which is mechanically driven and precisely controlled ,  for instance held constant or accelerated .
method whereby an object or substance is weighed and the volume of  ( that is ,  the size of the three dimensional space occupied by )  that object or substance is derived based on the measured weight and the density of the substance .
method whereby an object or substance is weighed more than once ,  for example at different times or on different days ,  and the volume or a change in the volume of  ( that is ,  the size of the three dimensional space occupied by )  that object or substance is derived based on the measured weights and the density of the substance .
high - resolution computed tomography in which the pixel sizes of the cross - sections are in the micrometer range .
a test in which an aversive stimulus is administered ,  either paired one or more times with a neutral stimulus followed by assessment of subsequent fear / emotion - based reactions in response to the neutral stimulus alone  ( cued )  or within a certain environment or context followed by assessment of subsequent fear / emotion - based reactions in that environment without the aversive stimulus  ( contextual )  .
a test in which an aversive stimulus is administered within a certain environment or context followed by assessment of subsequent fear / emotion - based reactions in that environment without the aversive stimulus .
a test in which an aversive stimulus is administered paired one or more times with a neutral stimulus followed by assessment of subsequent fear / emotion - based reactions in response to the neutral stimulus alone .
test in which an animal is placed in a tank of water without platforms and behaviors  ( such as swimming ,  climbing and floating )  are assessed for a set period of time .
a method whereby a value or values are achieved largely or completely via calculations ,  such as statistical calculations or application of simple or complex algorithms for analysis .
a statistical method for determining the probability of surviving for a given length of time while considering time in many small intervals .
a method which utilizes a  measurement device implanted in any part of the aorta which transmits radio signals to a recording device .
a method which utilizes a  measurement device implanted in the thoracic aorta which transmits radio signals to a recording device .
a method which utilizes an implanted measurement device to transmit radio signals to a recording device ,  where the device is implanted in the thoracic aorta using a cannula inserted through the carotid artery .
a method which utilizes an implanted measurement device to transmit radio signals to a recording device ,  where the device is implanted in the abdominal aorta using a cannula inserted through the femoral artery .
a method which utilizes an implanted measurement device to transmit radio signals to a recording device ,  where the device is implanted directly in the abdominal aorta using a cannula inserted through the abdominal aorta .
a method which utilizes a  measurement device implanted in one of the common carotid arteries  ( that is ,  the two main arteries which supply oxygenated blood to the head before each bifurcates into an internal and an external carotid artery )   which transmits radio signals to a recording device .
a procedure or technique performed outside the living body by which the atomic composition ,  that is ,  the relative or absolute amounts of one or more specific elements in a sample are measured .
a procedure or technique performed outside the living body by which the atomic composition ,  that is ,  the relative or absolute amounts of one or more specific elements in a sample that has been subjected to dry ashing .
a method in which a sample is reduced to noncombustible ash followed by the measurement of its atomic composition by atomic emission spectrometry .
any method to assess wildness ,  tameness ,  placidity and / or ease of handling of animals ,  for example ,  laboratory animals .
a method by which wildness and ease of handling of animals ,  for example ,  laboratory animals ,  is assessed and a score or grade on a specified scale is assigned .
any method to assess the ability to maintain bodily equilibrium ,  the ability to control the movements of the parts of the body so they function harmoniously ,  and / or the ability to produce or resist a physical force .
a method used to measure motor coordination and limb movement at different angles depending on the  configuration of the grid .
a method used to assess motor coordination and balance whereby a clear acrylic box sits on top of a parallel rod floor made of conductive metal which is slightly above a base metal plate .
a method using an enclosure equipped with infrared beams to monitor and measure movement ;  the apparatus may contain monitors for oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production as well .
a method that is a form of pavlovian conditioning used to measure the motivational effects of objects or experiences on a test subject .
a test in which an animal is placed in a tank of water without platforms ;  swimming endurance is measured for a set period of time .
a pass / fail test used to measure a subject's capacity for sustained attention and response control ;  a test is passed when the go condition is met and also the no - go condition fails .
a test utilizing an enclosure consisting of a single area bordered by clear or opaque walls with the floor of the apparatus containing holes that the test subject can explore ;  interpreted as measuring exploratory and / or anxiety - related behaviors .
a test used to measure and / or record movement or behavior of a test subject in its home cage .
a test utilizing an enclosure where typically 2 / 3 of the apparatus is brightly lit and in the open ,  and 1 / 3 is covered and in the dark ;  used to measure exploratory and anxiety - related behaviors of a test subject .
the smithkline beecham ,  harwell ,  imperial college ,  royal london hospital ,  phenotype assessment method ;  a standardized battery of tests to assess muscle ,  cerebellar ,  sensory and neuropsychiatric functions in laboratory animals .
a variation of the standardized shirpa test utilizing a viewing jar and / or an arena to assess muscle function ,  cerebellar function ,  sensory function ,  neuropsychiatric function ,  and dysmorphology by experimenter observation .
a method using an enclosure with two chambers separated by a transparent partition whereby one of the chambers is equipped with foot shock capability ;  the test subject is able to observe the reaction of another subject receiving a shock .
a method to study behavior conditioning by teaching a subject to perform certain tasks  ( like pressing a lever )  in response to certain stimuli  ( like light or sound )  ;  the chamber mechanism delivers a reward in response to a correct response and / or a punishment in response to an incorrect response .
a method using an operant chamber equipped with five holes ,  which can illuminate ,  and a food tray to deliver a reward ;  used to assess visuospatial attention and impulsivity .
a method used to assess the motivation of a subject to solve problems when exposed to an arena unequally partitioned into two compartments ,  a larger ,  brightly - lit compartment which is usually the start box and a smaller ,  dark compartment which is the goal box .
a test utilizing an enclosure divided into three parts ,  used to assess a subject's reactivity to novel or familiar objects ;   in this context 'objects'may be inanimate or another organism ,  typically of the same species .
a three - chamber assay in which the test subject is first acclimated to the apparatus then subjected to two test scenarios ,  the first in which one of the three chambers contains a novel animal of the same species which the third chamber is empty ,  followed by a second in which that same previously - novel animal is again presented in chamber two and another 'never - before - met intruder' is presented in chamber three .
a method used to test depth perception and assess anxiety - related behaviors ;  the apparatus consists a a sheet of clear acrylic that covers a cloth with a high - contrast checkerboard pattern ;  one end of the cloth is placed immediately beneath the acrylic sheet while the other end is placed below the acrylic sheet ,  giving the appearance of depth while protecting the subject from actually falling .
a method used to test visual discrimination ,  pattern discrimination ,  and visual acuity in rodents ;  this test combines the basic principles of a discrimination box and the morris water maze .
a method that utilizes an enclosure made up of a circular surface with up to 20 holes  ( one is an escape hole )  ;  visual cues are placed outside the enclosure but in full view of the test subject .
a method utilizing an experimental apparatus consisting of three arms of equal length in the shape of a y elevated a set distance above the floor or above the platform on which the apparatus sits ,  and upon which the test subject can walk ;  used to study how rodents function with memory and spatial learning ;  it is also used as a spontaneous alternation task to assess novelty seeking .
a technique performed on an isolated body part consisting of a solid material ,  for instance a bone ,  to assign a quantitative or qualitative value for fatigue limit .
a method performed on bone to assign a quantitative or qualitative value for fatigue limit .
a procedure or technique performed in or on an intact body ,  especially a living body ,  by which a morphological parameter of some part or subdivision of that body is assessed and a quantitative or qualitative value assigned .
a method by which the length of the tail ,  that is ,  the extent of the tail along its greatest dimension ,  is measured .
a method to determine the threshold at which a test subject can detect sweetness ,  sourness ,  saltiness or other tastes .
a method used to measure thresholds for minimal clonic ,  maximal clonic ,  or psychomotor seizures ;  commonly used in the screening of anti - epileptic drugs in rodent models .
a method in which electrodes are placed on and / or near the eye ,  a stimulus is applied and the time course of the response is recorded ;  used to measure the electrical responses of various cell types in the retina ,  including photoreceptors  ( rods and cones )  ,  inner retinal cells  ( bipolar and amacrine cells )  ,  and ganglion cells .
a method employed in cell counting ,  cell sorting ,  and biomarker detection by suspending cells in a stream of fluid and passing them through an electronic detection apparatus .
any method used to quantify intake or ingestion ,  especially of food or drink .
a method used to quantify the consumption or ingestion of drink ,  any liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed .
a method used to quantify the consumption or ingestion of food ,  any solid or semi - solid with nutritional value that is brought into the mouth and swallowed .
a method used to measure the anatomical aspects of the eye ,  including axial length and anterior chamber depth ;  the device operates as an interferometer and uses infrared laser light to provide repeatable and precise measurements .
a procedure or technique performed outside the living body by which pressure is assessed via the use of a manometer ,  a gauge consisting of a u - shaped tube which measures and displays the pressure differential between the two ends of the tube .
a method used to measure water loss through the skin using an instrument which consists of two pairs of sensors to measure humidity and temperature gradients just above the skin's surface .
a method used to test the condition of the middle ear ,  including mobility of the tympanic membrane  ( eardrum )  and condition of conduction bones .
a method used to measure in vivo lung function including traditional resistance and compliance measurements ;  may also include mechanical properties of conducting airways ,  terminal airways ,  and parenchyma .
a method used to measure function of the sensory system that is imperative to the sense of balance and spatial orientation for the purpose of coordinating movement with balance .
a method which employs a virtual reality system to quantify visuomotor behavior ,  that is ,  motor activity which is dependent on or involving sight .
an imaging technique using x - rays to view internal structures of a living subject .
any method which measures one or more cytokines ,  any of a large group of low - molecular - weight proteins  ( ~5 - 20 kda in size )  secreted by various cell types .
any method by which the level or concentration in a sample of blood of parathyroid hormone is measured .
a standardized group of  tests which are routinely performed to determine the general health of a patient or test subject ,  specifically using blood plasma as the input .
a standardized group of  tests which are routinely performed to determine the general health of a patient or test subject ,  specifically using blood serum as the input .
a technique in which fluid is introduced into the lung ( s )  then collected for analysis ,  for example assessment of cells ,  proteins or pathogens in the lungs .
an assay of inulin content in a liquid sample by colorimetry .
an assay of inulin content in a liquid sample by the thiourea - resorcinol method ,  where an orange - red color is formed by the reaction of hydrolyzed inulin with resorinol in strong hydrochloric acid .
an assay to determine p - aminohippurate  ( pah )  content in a liquid sample by colorimetry .
an in vivo microsurgical preparation that involves the quantitative collection of tubular fluid from a proximal or distal tubule using a micropipette to accurately puncture the specified structure .
a method which utilizes an in vivo microsurgical preparation designed to measure fluid pressures in microscopic structures which can be penetrated by a micropipette .
any method to determine the nature ,  properties ,  or composition of a sample at a subcellular ,  molecular ,  atomic or subatomic level .
any method which assesses the process by which products are produced from genes ,  gene fragments ,  genetic or genomic loci ,  etc . ,  including measurement of levels ,  timing ,  and / or location ,  or differential quantification of specific products .
any method which measures the levels ,  timing ,  and / or location ,  or differential quantification of specific gene transcripts ,  that is ,  rna molecules formed from dna templates during transcription .
any method which measures the levels ,  timing ,  and / or location of ,  or differentially quantifies ,  proteins formed from the translation of gene transcripts .
any method which assesses an outcome of the process by which products are produced from genes ,  gene fragments ,  genetic or genomic loci ,  etc . ,  including measurement of levels ,  timing ,  and / or location ,  or differential quantification of specific products ,  when such products are examined in the location  ( e .g .
any method which uses rapid ,  highly parallel techniques to identify and characterize ,  for example determine the levels of ,  a large number of biomolecules  ( e .g .
a method which assesses transcript expression by reverse transcription of purified mrna into the corresponding complementary dna  ( cdna )  before insertion into a vector ,  allowing synthesis of a large number of copies of the sequence for analysis .
a method that assesses transcript expression in which unfracionated rna is covalently bound to a membrane and subsequently analysed by hybridization to one or more specific probes that have been labelled to allow detection ,  or dna sequences of interest are bound to a membrane and hybridized to a labelled rna / cdna sample .
a method which assesses transcript expression in which rna is size - fractionated by gel electrophoresis and transferred and covalently bound to a membrane .
a method which assesses transcript expression by the use of an array ,  an ordered two dimensional collection of specific single - stranded dna probes  ( either short oligonucleotides or longer dna strands )  which is hybridized to a labelled cdna or rna sample under high - stringency conditions .
a method which assesses transcript expression by the use of a microarray ,  an ordered two dimensional collection of specific single - stranded dna probes  ( either short oligonucleotides or longer dna strands )  densely packed into a small area .
a method which assesses expression transcripts from a specific ,  contiguous region of the genome by the use of a tiling microarray .
a method in which single - stranded ,  discretely - sized antisense dna or rna probe ( s )  are hybridized in solution to a sample of rna .
a nuclease protection assay in which the probe is rna and the nuclease is one or more ribonucleases which preferentially cleave single - stranded rna .
a nuclease protection assay in which the probe is dna and the nuclease is s1 nuclease ,  an endonuclease which preferentially cleaves single - stranded polynucleotides ,  including both ssdna and ssrna .
a method which assesses transcript expression and structure by primer extension ,  that is ,  an assay in which an oligonucleotide primer is annealed to rna and extended to a cdna copy by reverse transcription .
a method which assesses transcript expression by conversion of an rna template into complementary dna  ( cdna )  by reverse transcription .
a method in which amplification of a specific rna / cdna sequence by a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction is monitored by detection of fluorescent probes or intercalating dyes that indicate the  ( absolute or relative )  amount of product being produced in real time .
a method in which reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction is performed directly on tissue sections to assess transcript expression .
a method in which rna or oligonucleotide probes are hybridized to tissue sections ,  cells ,  whole mounts ,  or circulating tumor cells to assess the levels and / or localization of specific rnas .
a method which assesses transcript expression and structure via high - throughput sequencing .
a method which assesses transcript expression by producing short  ( ~11 nt )  sequence tags from an rna sample ,  binding them into ditags for pcr amplification ,  splitting the pcr products into singlets ,  and concatenating these together ,  followed by cloning and sequencing the concatemers to quantify the recurrence of individual tags .
any method which measures the levels ,  timing ,  and / or location of ,  or differentially quantifies ,  proteins through the use of assays to measure specific protein function .
microscopic analysis of amount ,  structure and / or localization of specific proteins in cells or tissues by staining with fluorescently - labeled primary or secondary antibodies .
an assay using electron microscopy to determine the amount ,  structure and / or localization of specific proteins in cells or tissues by staining with antibodies that have been conjugated with an electron - dense label such as gold .
any method which uses rapid ,  highly parallel techniques to identify and characterize ,  for example determine the levels of ,  a large number of proteins in a limited number of samples ,  a limited number of proteins in a large number of samples ,  or a large number of proteins in a large number of samples .
the use of mass spectrometry as a rapid ,  highly parallel techniques to identify and characterize ,  for example determine the levels of ,  a large number of proteins in a limited number of samples ,  a limited number of proteins in a large number of samples ,  or a large number of proteins in a large number of samples .
any method which employs an array  ( a two - dimensionally ordered arrangement of tissues ,  antibodies or other biomolecular interactors on a solid substrate )  to identify and characterize ,  for example determine the levels of ,  a large number of proteins in a limited number of samples ,  a limited number of proteins in a large number of samples ,  or a large number of proteins in a large number of samples .
a method which employs a two - dimensionally ordered arrangement of tissues in paraffin blocks to histologically characterize protein expression in those tissues .
a method which employs a two - dimensionally ordered arrangement of antibodies spotted on a solid substrate for the detection and quantification of their target antigens in one or more samples .
an assay in which one or more protein samples are size -  ,  structure -  ,  and / or charge - separated by one -  or two - dimensional gel electrophoresis ,  transferred to a membrane and an immunostaining procedure is used to detect and quantify one or more specific proteins in the sample ( s )  .
an assay designed to detect expression of a reporter gene in intact tissues or cells .
an in situ reporter assay designed to detect ,  in intact cells or tissues ,  expression of a reporter gene that has been randomly integrated into the genome .
an in situ reporter assay designed to detect ,  in intact cells or tissues ,  expression of a reporter gene that has been inserted into the genome by the process of homologous recombination with the goal of recapitulating the expression pattern of the endogenous gene .
an in situ reporter assay that uses intact cells or tissues from an organism with a recombinase - carrying allele and a reporter gene - carrying allele to detect the cells and / or tissues where the recombinase has been active .
technique for the determination of a polymer's number average molecular weight ,  mn .
any assay which measures the amount ,  level or concentration of urea in urine .
a method which quantifies the catalytic effect exerted by &#945 ;  - n - acetylgalactosaminidase in a specified sample of blood .
a type of chromatography where a positively charged ion exchange resin with an affinity for molecules having net negative surface charges is used to separate the molecules .
a type of fractionation where sub - cellular components are separated based on their physical properties such as density in a sucrose density gradient .
a type of chromatin immunoprecipitation that uses a tiling microarray for the detection of protein - bound dna regions where chromatin is immunoprecipitated for protein tagging and dna is sheared from the cross - linked protein - dna complex to be arrayed revealing the protein - bound genomic regions .
a type of fractionation evidence resulting from a protein fractionated with other compounds ,  factors ,  or macromolecules .
a type of protein assay that involves precipitation of a multivalent antigen by a bivalent antibody for protein isolation .
a type of immunoprecipitation that involves precipitating two or more proteins via binding to an antibody specific to a single protein ,  followed by protein identification .
a type of chromatography resulting from the exclusion of proteins based on molecular size by filtration through a porous matrix  ( swollen gel )  ,  from which larger molecules are excluded .
a type of microscopy where sharp images are taken by excluding most of the light from the specimen that is not from the microscope's focal plane ,  thus allowing better contrast and less haze ,  which makes it possible to build three - dimensional reconstructions of a volume of the specimen by assembling a series of thin slices taken along the vertical axis .
a type of confocal microscopy where light passes through immunofluorescent - stained tissue sections or cells and then the emitted light passes through the dichroic mirror and is focused onto the pinhole for subsequent detection .
any test which measures the amount of aldosterone ,  a mineralocorticoid hormone produced by the adrenal cortex ,  in urine .
any method by which the level or concentration in a sample of plasma of parathyroid hormone is measured .
any method by which the level or concentration in a sample of serum of parathyroid hormone is measured .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure total cholesterol in plasma .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure low - density lipoprotein - cholesterol in plasma .
optical coherence tomography  ( oct )  is an imaging technique that uses low - coherence light to capture micrometer - resolution ,  two -  and three - dimensional images from within optical scattering media  ( e .g . ,  biological tissue )  .
a method which utilizes a metabolic cage ,  a housing unit constructed for the separate collection of liquid and solid wastes ,  to determine the amount of water consumed during a fixed time period .
the comprehensive metabolic panel  ( cmp )  is a panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool .
a method to measure one or more hormones in serum .
a method to measure one or more hormones in plasma .
a method of visualizing soft tissues of the body by applying an external magnetic field that makes it possible to distinguish between hydrogen atoms in different environments .
an enzyme immunoassay using enzyme labeled immunoreactant  ( antigen or antibody )  and an immunosorbent  ( antigen or antibody )  bound to a solid support .
active avoidance requires performing a specific behavior in order to escape or avoid the aversive stimulus .
method of assessing the total amount of protein ,  complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in a specified sample of urine based upon measuring the shift in the absorption that occurs when a complex of pyrogallol red and molybdate binds to basic amino acid groups of protein molecules in the sample .
a multistep process in which a mixture of proteins is separated by gel electrophoresis ,  that is ,  separation of ionic solutes based on differences in rate of migration in an applied electric field using a semisolid colloid such as agarose or acrylamide as the support medium ,  followed by transfer to a membrane ,  usually composed of nitrocellulose ,  nylon or polyvinylidene difluoride  ( pvdf )  and detection of specific proteins by binding of tagged or labelled antibodies .
a rapid technique for in vitro amplification of specific dna sequences ,  allowing small quantities of short sequences to be analyzed without cloning .
real - time pcr is able to detect sequence - specific pcr products as they accumulate in 'real - time' during the pcr amplification process .
an analytical technique in that combines the physical separation capabilities of high pressure liquid chromatography  ( hplc )  with the mass analysis capabilities of mass spectrometry  ( ms )  .
a method which quantifies the catalytic effect exerted by &#945 ;  - n - acetylgalactosaminidase in a specified sample of blood .
a method to measure one or more hormones in plasma .
a method to determine the level of one or more eicosanoids ,  physiologically active molecules derived by oxidation of twenty - carbon essential fatty acids such as arachidonic acid ,  in whole blood .
a method to determine the level of one or more eicosanoids ,  physiologically active molecules derived by oxidation of twenty - carbon essential fatty acids such as arachidonic acid ,  in plasma .
a method to determine the level of one or more eicosanoids ,  physiologically active molecules derived by oxidation of twenty - carbon essential fatty acids such as arachidonic acid ,  inserum .
the measurement of transmittance  ( a linear scale from 0 - 100% )  or absorbance  ( a logarithmic scale from zero to infinity )  of particular wavelengths of light by the use of filters .
a method to determine the level of one or more carbohydrates or carbohydrate derivatives ,  any of a large group of organic compounds occurring in foods and living tissues and including sugars ,  starch ,  and cellulose ,  in blood .
a method to determine the level of fructosamine ,  the compound that results from glycation reactions between a sugar and a primary amine ,  or isoglucosamine ,  found in a specific volume of blood .
a method to determine the level of fructosamine ,  the compound that results from glycation reactions between a sugar and a primary amine ,  or isoglucosamine ,  found in a specific volume of plasma .
a method to determine the level of fructosamine ,  the compound that results from glycation reactions between a sugar and a primary amine ,  or isoglucosamine ,  found in a specific volume of plasma .
nuclear magnetic resonance  ( nmr )  spectroscopy is a technique to observe local magnetic fields around atomic nuclei .
a method for studying materials with unpaired electrons .
a minimally invasive magnetic resonance method capable of measuring direct and absolute values of po2 or o2 concentration .
a technique that involves the application of centrifugal force to separate particles from a solution ,  biological molecules ,  cells ,  or organelles according to their size ,  shape ,  density ,  viscosity of the medium and rotor speed .
enzyme immunoassays  ( eias )  use antibodies to detect the presence of antigens in solution in microtiter plates or in vivo .
instruments which are used to detect biological ,  chemical or physical events of samples in microtiter plates .
the morgan - elson assay is a colorimetric method for the determination of glucosamine and chondrosamine and may be used for determination of hyaluronidase activity .
a fluorimetric version of the morgan - elson assay for determination of hyaluronidase activity in biological samples .
a colorimetric version of the morgan - elson assay for determination of hyaluronidase activity in biological samples .
magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  contrast agents increase the contrast difference between normal and abnormal tissues .
an osmometer can determine the concentration of solutes in a solvent ,  based on the lowering of a solution's freezing point by increasing solute concentrations .
an ultra - high pressure form of liquid column chromatography in which the solvent is forced through the column under high pressures of up to 1000 atmospheres  ( 15 , 000 psi )  .
an analytical technique that combines the physical separation capabilities of ultra - pressure liquid chromatography  ( uplc )  with the mass analysis capabilities of mass spectrometry  ( ms )  .
microscopy with its light source from above pointing down ,  while the objectives and turret are below the stage pointing up  -  uses include micromanipulation applications where space above the specimen is required for manipulator mechanisms and the microtools they hold .
a method which quantifies the catalytic effect exerted by n - acetyl - &#946 ;  - d - glucosaminidase in a specified sample of blood .
passive avoidance describes experiments in which the animal learns to avoid an aversive event by suppressing a particular behavior .
a method which quantifies the catalytic effect exerted by ceruloplasmin in a specified sample of blood .
a method which quantifies the catalytic effect exerted by ceruloplasmin in a specified sample of plasma .
a method which quantifies the catalytic effect exerted by ceruloplasmin in a specified sample of serum .
this is a controlled flame test with the intensity of the flame color quantified by photoelectric circuitry .
when reacted with primary amines in the presence of mercaptoethanol ,  opa  ( o - phthalaldehyde )  yields an intense blue - colored fluorescent product that has a maximum wavelength of excitation of 340 nm and emission at 455 nm .
a method to measure nociception ,  the sensory nervous system's process of encoding noxious stimuli .
the randall - selitto test consists of an application of a uniformly increasing pressure on the paw to assess the threshold response to pain .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure triglyceride in plasma .
method using a device designed to follow a predetermined sequence of individual operations repeatedly and essentially without external influence or control to measure glucose in plasma .
inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry is an elemental analysis technology capable of detecting most of the periodic table of elements at milligram to nanogram levels per liter .
a determination of exteroceptive sensation  ( touch ,  temperature ,  pain )  ,  proprioceptive sensation  ( joint position ,  vibration )   ,  or cortical sensory functions .
the measurement of sensory ,  usually tactile ,  discrimination .
a rapid corneal sensitivity examination based upon the principle of pressure transmitted axially by a nylon monofilament ,  of known diameter but of variable length ,  for a given bending stress .
this qualitative or quantitative measurement of tactile sensation by the cornea may involve contact or non - contact procedures .
this test is used to determine if the subject's tear glands produce enough tears to keep the eyes moist .
multiphoton microscopy  ( mpm )  is an imaging technique that allows intact biological samples to be visualized at high resolution .
in vivo microscopy  ( ivm )  encompassess a variety of techniques which capture microscopic images in living subjects .
a method which measures corticosterone in the blood .
a method which measures corticosterone in the plasma .
a method which measures corticosterone in the serum .
a method which measures 11 - dehydrocorticosterone in the blood .
a method which measures 11 - dehydrocorticosterone in the plasma .
a method which measures 11 - dehydrocorticosterone in the serum .
a procedure or technique performed outside the living body of a higher organism by which parasites are removed from an organ and enumerated .
a method which incorporates use of immunofluorescence confocal microscopy to produce picture files stored as data expressed in a discrete numerical form ,  followed by use of computer software to evaluate these resulting microscopic images .
