covalent modification of ,  or a change resulting in an alteration of the measured molecular mass of ,  a peptide or protein amino acid residue .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an alkyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o3 - glycosylserine .
entry from unimod .
artifact entry from unimod  -  obsolete because organizational use is no longer required .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o3 - glycosylthreonine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydrogen atom on a nitrogen with a carbohydrate - like group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a selenium atom for a sulfur atom .
entry from unimod representing one or more entries in resid .
a protein modification that removes a residue ,  or inserts or replaces a residue with a natural ,  standard or nonstandard ,  encoded residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - aspartic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - glutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - glutamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to a glycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - isoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - leucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to l - phenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - valine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an n - formyl - l - methionine ,  a natural pretranslational modification .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - selenocysteine ,  a natural pretranslational modification .
a protein modification that is not chemically categorized .
a protein modification that crosslinks two or more amino acid residues with covalent bonds .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two l - cysteine residues to form l - cystine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to  ( 2s , 3r )  - 3 - hydroxyasparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to  ( 2s , 3r )  - 3 - hydroxyaspartic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine  residue to one of the diastereomeric 5 - hydroxy - l - lysine  residues .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to 3 - hydroxy - l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to 4 - hydroxy - l - proline
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to 2 - pyrrolidone - 5 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to l - gamma - carboxyglutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to l - aspartic 4 - phosphoric anhydride .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - phospho - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to tele - phospho - l - histidine  ( n - tau - phospho - l - histidine ,  1' - phospho - l - histidine )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to pros - phospho - l - histidine  ( n - pi - phospho - l - histidine ,  3' - phospho - l - histidine )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - phospho - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - phospho - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to o4' - phospho - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to diphthamide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to n - acetyl - l - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to n - acetyl - l - aspartic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to n - acetyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to n - acetyl - l - glutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to n - acetyl - l - glutamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n - acetylglycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to n - acetyl - l - isoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n2 - acetyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine to n - acetyl - l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to n - acetyl - l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to n - acetyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to n - acetyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to n - acetyl - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - valine residue to n - acetyl - l - valine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - acetyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - acetyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n - formylglycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n - d - glucuronoylglycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n - myristoylglycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to n - palmitoyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to n - methyl - l - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to n , n , n - trimethyl - l - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n - methylglycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to n - methyl - l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to n - methyl - l - phenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to n , n - dimethyl - l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to symmetric dimethylarginine ,  n ( omega )  , n' ( omega )  - dimethyl - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to asymmetric dimethylarginine ,  n ( omega )  , n ( omega )  - dimethyl - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to n ( omega )  - methyl - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n4 - methyl - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to n5 - methyl - l - glutamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to l - glutamate 5 - methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to pros - methyl - l - histidine  ( n - pi - methyl - l - histidine ,  3' - methyl - l - histidine )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 , n6 , n6 - trimethyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 , n6 - dimethyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - methyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - palmitoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - myristoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - palmitoyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - palmitoyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to l - alanine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to l - arginine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to l - asparagine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to l - aspartic acid 1 - amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to l - glutamine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to l - glutamic acid 1 - amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to glycine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to l - histidine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to l - isoleucine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to l - leucine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to l - lysine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to l - methionine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to l - phenylalanine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to l - proline amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to l - serine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to l - threonine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to l - tryptophan amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to l - tyrosine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - valine residue to l - valine amide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteine methyl disulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - farnesyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - 12 - hydroxyfarnesyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - geranylgeranyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteine methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - palmitoyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - diacylglycerol - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - glutamine residue by a thioester bond with the formation of s -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - cysteine and the release of ammonia .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - histidine residue by a thioether bond to form 2' -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue by a thioether bond to form l - lanthionine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue by a thioether bond to form meso - lanthionine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - threonine residue by a thioether bond to form  ( 2s , 3s , 2'r )  - 3 - methyllanthionine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - tyrosine residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - carboxy - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - 1 - carboxyethyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to hypusine ,  n6 -  ( 4 - amino - 2 - hydroxybutyl )  - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - biotinyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - lipoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - pyridoxal phosphate - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - retinylidene - l - lysine ,  the adduct of retinal .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to l - allysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to l - 2 - aminoadipic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - serine residue and an l - lysine residue to release water and form 2 - amino - 6 -  ( 2 - amino - 2 - carboxyethylamino ) hexanoic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - glutamine residue and an l - lysine residue by an isopeptide bond with the formation of n6 -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - lysine and the release of ammonia .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - lysine residue and a glycine residue by an isopeptide bond to form n6 - glycyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - asparagine residue and a glycine residue by an isopeptide bond with formation of n -  ( l - isoaspartyl ) glycine and the release of ammonia .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to pyruvic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue into l - 3 - phenyllactic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue into 2 - oxobutanoic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to n2 - succinyl - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between a cysteine residue and the tetrapyrrole compound phycocyanobilin .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between a cysteine residue and the tetrapyrrole compound phycoerythrobilin .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between a cysteine residue and the tetrapyrrole compound phytochromobilin .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between two cysteine residues and the porphyrin compound heme b ,   ( 7 , 12 - diethenyl - 3 , 8 , 13 , 17 - tetramethylporphyrin - 2 , 18 - dipropanoato ) iron .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between a cysteine residue and the porphyrin compound heme b ,   ( 7 , 12 - diethenyl - 3 , 8 , 13 , 17 - tetramethylporphyrin - 2 , 18 - dipropanoato ) iron .
a protein modification that effectively converts four l - cysteine residues iron atom to tetrakis - l - cysteinyl iron .
a protein modification that effectively converts four l - cysteine residues and a two - iron two - sulfur cluster to tetrakis - l - cysteinyl diiron disulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts six l - cysteine residues and a three - iron three - sulfur cluster to hexakis - l - cysteinyl triiron trisulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts three l - cysteine residues and a three - iron four - sulfur cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl triiron tetrasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts four l - cysteine residues and a four - iron four - sulfur cluster to tetrakis - l - cysteinyl tetrairon tetrasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue ,  an l - histidine residue ,  homocitric acid and a one - molybdenum seven - iron nine - sulfur cluster to l - cysteinyl - l - histidino - homocitryl molybdenum heptairon nonasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteinyl molybdopterin .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s' -  ( 8alpha - fad )  - l - cystine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to 3' -  ( 8alpha - fad )  - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to o4' -  ( 8alpha - fad )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to l - 3' , 4' - dihydroxyphenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to an l - 2' , 4' , 5' - topaquinone .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to an l - tryptophan quinone .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two l - tryptophan residues by a carbon - carbon bond to form 4' -  ( l - tryptophan )  - l - tryptophyl quinone .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - phosphopantetheine - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to an n4 - glycosyl - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - glucosylated l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to o5 - glucosylgalactosyl - l - hydroxylysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  ( n - acetylaminogalactosyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to o -  ( n - acetylaminogalactosyl )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to 1' - mannosyl - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to o4' - glucosyl - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n - asparaginyl - glycosylphosphatidylinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to n -  ( aspart - 1 - yl )  - glycosylphosphatidylinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to n - cysteinyl - glycosylphosphatidylinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n - glycyl - glycosylphosphatidylinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to n - seryl - glycosylphosphatidylinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to n - alanyl - glycosylphosphatidylinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to n - threonyl - glycosylphosphatidylinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n - glycyl - glycosylsphingolipidinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to n - seryl - glycosylsphingolipidinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  ( phosphoribosyl dephospho - coenzyme a )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - argininine residue to omega - n -  ( adp - ribosyl )  - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( adp - ribosyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to l - glutamyl 5 - glycerylphosphorylethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - sulfo - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to o4' - sulfo - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to l - bromohistidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to l - 2' - bromophenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to l - 3' - bromophenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to l - 4' - bromophenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes an l - tyrosine residue with 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes an l - tyrosine residue with l - thyroxine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to 6' - bromo - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to dehydroalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to dehydrobutyrine .
a protein modification that effectively converts l - tyrosine to  ( z )  - 2 , 3 - didehydrotyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - serine residue and a glycine residue to form l - serine 5 - imidazolinone glycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - oxoalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to an amino - terminal lactic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - alanine residue and a glycine residue to form l - alanine 5 - imidazolinone glycine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and a glycine residue to form l - cysteine 5 - imidazolinone glycine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - glutamine residue and a glycine residue to form 2 - imino - glutamine 5 - imidazolinone glycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to d - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to a d - allo - isoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to d - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to d - phenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to d - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to d - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to d - leucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to d - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to l - isoglutamyl - polyglycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to isoglutamyl - polyglutamic acid ,  forming an isopeptide bond with a polyglutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - tyrosine residue and 5' - phosphoadenosine through a phosphodiester bond to form o4' -  ( phospho - 5' - adenosine )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue by a thioether bond to form s -  ( 2 - aminovinyl )  - d - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively monooxygenates an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteine sulfenic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and a glycine residue by a thioester bond to form s - glycyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - 4 - hydroxycinnamyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - serine residue to the polymer chondroitin sulfate by a d - glucuronosyl - d - galactosyl - d - galactosyl - d - xylosyl tetrasaccharide .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - serine residue to the polymer dermatan 4 - sulfate by a d - glucuronosyl - d - galactosyl - d - galactosyl - d - xylosyl tetrasaccharide .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - serine residue to the polymer heparan sulfate by a d - glucuronosyl - d - galactosyl - d - galactosyl - d - xylosyl tetrasaccharide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - formyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to o4 - arabinosyl - l - hydroxyproline .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - serine residue and the 5' - end of rna through a phosphodiester to form o4' -  ( phospho - 5' - rna )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to l - citrulline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to a 4 - hydroxy - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks l - aspartic acid and l - cysteine residues via an isopeptide bond to form n -  ( l - isoaspartyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to 2' - alpha - mannosyl - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - mureinyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to 1 - chondroitin sulfate - l - aspartic acid ester
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( 6 - fmn )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to 1' -  ( 8alpha - fad )  - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to omega - n - phospho - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - diphytanylglycerol diether - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts two l - cysteine residues to form alpha - 1 - microglobulin - ig alpha complex chromophore .
a protein modification that effectively converts two l - cysteine residues ,  two l - histidine residues and a two - iron two - sulfur cluster to bis - l - cysteinyl bis - l - histidino diiron disulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts six l - cysteine residues and a six - iron six - sulfur cluster to hexakis - l - cysteinyl hexairon hexasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - lysine residue and 5' - phosphoadenosine through a phosphoramide ester bond to form n6 -  ( phospho - 5' - adenosine )  - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - lysine residue and 5' - phosphoguanosine through a phosphoramide ester bond to form n6 -  ( phospho - 5' - guanosine )  - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - glutathionyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - nitrosyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n4 -  ( adp - ribosyl )  - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to l - beta - methylthioaspartic acid .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - lysine residue and an l - tyrosine residue by a carbon - nitrogen bond to form 5' -  ( n6 - l - lysine )  - l - topaquinone .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - methyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 4 - hydroxy - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n4 - hydroxymethyl - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  ( adp - ribosyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue to form l - cysteine oxazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue to form l - cysteine oxazoline - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks a glycine residue and an l - serine residue to form glycine oxazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and a glycine residue to form glycine thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue to form l - serine thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - phenylalanine residue to form l - phenylalanine thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks two l - cysteine residues to form l - cysteine thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - lysine residue to form l - lysine thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - serine residue and the 5' - end of dna through a phosphodiester bond to form o -  ( phospho - 5' - dna )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - threonine residue to the polymer keratan sulfate by a d - glucuronosyl - d - galactosyl - d - galactosyl - d - xylosyl tetrasaccharide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - selenocysteine residue to l - selenocysteinyl molybdenum bis ( molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide )  .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - tyrosine residue and the 5' - end of rna through a phosphodiester to form o4' -  ( phospho - 5' - rna )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - histidine residue and an l - tyrosine residue by a carbon - nitrogen bond to form 3 -  ( 3' - l - histidyl )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that dioxygenates an l - methionine residue to l - methionine sulfone .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to dipyrrolylmethanemethyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - threonine residue by a thioether bond to form s -  ( 2 - aminovinyl )  - 3 - methyl - d - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - tyrosine residue and the 5' - end of dna through a phosphodiester bond to form o4' -  ( phospho - 5' - dna )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - threonine residue and the 5' - end of dna through a phosphodiester bond to form o -  ( phospho - 5' - dna )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - tyrosine residue and 5' - phosphouridine through a phosphodiester bond to form o4' -  ( phospho - 5' - uridine )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively forms a peptide bond between a c - terminal l - glutamic acid residue and a free l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between a cysteine residue and the tetrapyrrole compound phycoviolobilin .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between two cysteine residues and the tetrapyrrole compound phycoerythrobilin .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between two cysteine residues and the tetrapyrrole compound phycourobilin .
a protein modification that effectively forms a peptide bond between a c - terminal l - glutamic acid residue and one or more free l - glutamic acid molecules to form n -  ( l - glutamyl )  - poly - l - glutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively dioxygenates an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteine sulfinic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to l - 3' , 4' , 5' - trihydroxyphenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  ( sn - 1 - glycerophosphoryl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to an internal 1 - thioglycine .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between two cysteine residues ,  the c - 3' of a tyrosine residue ,  and the porphyrin compound heme b ,   ( 7 , 12 - diethenyl - 3 , 8 , 13 , 17 - tetramethylporphyrin - 2 , 18 - dipropanoato ) iron .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - threonine residue and 5' - phosphoadenosine through a phosphodiester bond to form o -  ( phospho - 5' - adenosine )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts four l - cysteine residues ,  two l - glutamic acid residues ,  an l - histidine residue and a four - iron three - sulfur three - oxygen cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - cysteine persulfido bis - l - glutamato l - histidino tetrairon disulfide trioxide .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the hydrogen atom of a cysteine sulfanyl group with a sulfanyl group ,  forming a disulfanyl group ,  and converting an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteine persulfide .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - histidine residue and an l - tyrosine residue by a carbon - nitrogen bond to form 3' -  ( 1' - l - histidyl )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between two cysteine residues ,  a lysine residue ,  and the porphyrin compound heme b ,   ( 7 , 12 - diethenyl - 3 , 8 , 13 , 17 - tetramethylporphyrin - 2 , 18 - dipropanoato ) iron .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to 5 - methyl - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to 2 - methyl - l - glutamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to n - pyruvic acid 2 - iminyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - valine residue to n - pyruvic acid 2 - iminyl - l - valine .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between the pros nitrogen of a histidine residue and the porphyrin compound heme b ,   ( 7 , 12 - diethenyl - 3 , 8 , 13 , 17 - tetramethylporphyrin - 2 , 18 - dipropanoato ) iron .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - selenyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to an n6 - propylamino - poly ( propylmethylamino )  - propyldimethylamine - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between an aspartic acid residue ,  a glutamic acid residue ,  and the porphyrin compound heme b ,   ( 7 , 12 - diethenyl - 3 , 8 , 13 , 17 - tetramethylporphyrin - 2 , 18 - dipropanoato ) iron .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between an aspartic acid residue ,  a glutamic acid residue ,  a methionine residue  ( forming a sulfonium ether )  ,  and the porphyrin compound heme b ,   ( 7 , 12 - diethenyl - 3 , 8 , 13 , 17 - tetramethylporphyrin - 2 , 18 - dipropanoato ) iron .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteinyl molybdenum bis ( molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to a  ( 2s , 3r , 4s )  - 3 , 4 - dihydroxyproline .
a protein modification that effectively doubly cross - links an l - glutamic acid residue and an l - tyrosine residue with a carbon - carbon bond and a carbon - nitrogen bond to form pyrroloquinoline quinone .
a protein modification that effectively converts three l - cysteine residues ,  an l - histidine residue and a four - iron four - sulfur cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - n1' - histidino tetrairon tetrasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts three l - cysteine residues ,  an l - histidine residue and a four - iron four - sulfur cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - n3' - histidino tetrairon tetrasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts three l - cysteine residues ,  an l - aspartic acid residue and a four - iron four - sulfur cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - aspartato tetrairon tetrasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - pyruvic acid 2 - iminyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts three l - cysteine residues ,  an l - serine residue and a four - iron four - sulfur cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - serinyl tetrairon tetrasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts two l - cysteine residues ,  an l - histidine residues ,  an l - serine residue and a four - iron four - sulfur cluster to bis - l - cysteinyl l - n3' - histidino l - serinyl tetrairon tetrasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - octanoyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - d - glucuronosyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts four l - cysteine residues ,  two l - glutamic acid residues ,  an l - histidine residue and a three - iron three - sulfur three - oxygen cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - cysteine persulfido bis - l - glutamato l - histidino nickel triiron disulfide trioxide .
a protein modification that effectively converts four l - cysteine residues ,  an l - glutamic acid residue ,  an l - histidine residue ,  an l - serine residue and a one - nickel three - iron three - sulfur three - oxygen cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - cysteine persulfido l - glutamato l - histidino l - serinyl nickel triiron disulfide trioxide .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - asparagine residue and an l - lysine residue by an isopeptide bond with the formation of n6 -  ( l - isoaspartyl )  - l - lysine and the release of ammonia .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to l - glutamyl - 5 - poly ( adp - ribose )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  ( n - acetylglucosamine - 1 - phosphoryl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  ( phosphoglycosyl - d - mannose - 1 - phosphoryl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts seven l - histidinine residues and a four - copper one - sulfur one - hydroxide cluster to heptakis - l - histidino tetracopper mu4 - sulfide hydroxide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to l - leucine methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts six l - cysteine residues ,  an l - serine residue and a eight - iron seven - sulfur cluster to hexakis - l - cysteinyl l - serinyl octairon heptasulfide .
natural or modified residues with a mass of 113 .084064 da .
a protein modification that effectively cyclizes an l - asparagine residue to form a carboxyl - terminal l - aspartimide .
a protein modification that effectively cyclizes an l - glutamine residue to form a carboxyl - terminal l - glutamimide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to l - beta - carboxyaspartic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to n5 - methyl - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteine coenzyme a disulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - myristoyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - palmitoleyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to glycine cholesterol ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts five l - cysteine residues ,  an l - histidine residue and a one - nickel four - iron five - sulfur cluster to pentakis - l - cysteinyl l - histidino nickel tetrairon pentasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n4 , n4 - dimethyl - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - 3 , 4 - didehydroretinylidene - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - tryptophan residue by a thioether bond to form 4' -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - l - tryptophyl quinone .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - aspartic acid residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - l - aspartic acid .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - glutamic acid residue by a thioether bond to form 4 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - l - glutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to cis - 14 - hydroxy - 10 , 13 - dioxo - 7 - heptadecenoic acid l - aspartate ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to tele - methyl - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to l - lysine methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to l - serinyl molybdenum bis ( molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to l - beta - methylthioasparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to l - pyrrolysine  ( not known as a natural ,  post - translational modification process )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to a 3 - hydroxy - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - tyrosine residue and the 3' - end of dna through a phosphodiester bond to form o4' -  ( phospho - 3' - dna )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between a glutamic acid residue and the porphyrin compound heme b ,   ( 7 , 12 - diethenyl - 3 , 8 , 13 , 17 - tetramethylporphyrin - 2 , 18 - dipropanoato ) iron .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to a  ( phospho - 5' - guanosine )  - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts four l - cysteine residues and a three - iron four - sulfur cluster to tetrakis - l - cysteinyl triiron tetrasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to n4 - glucosyl - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to  ( 3 - aminopropyl )  ( l - aspartyl - 1 - amino ) phosphoryl - 5' - adenosine .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between the tele nitrogen of a histidine residue and the porphyrin compound heme b ,   ( 7 , 12 - diethenyl - 3 , 8 , 13 , 17 - tetramethylporphyrin - 2 , 18 - dipropanoato ) iron .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - threonine residue by a thioether bond to form  ( 2s , 3s , 2'r )  - 3 - methyllanthionine sulfoxide .
a protein modification that effectively converts three l - cysteine residues ,  an l - aspartic acid residue and a two - iron two - sulfur cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - aspartato diiron disulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - carbamoyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - cyano - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteinyl hydrogenase diiron subcluster .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - amidino - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to n - methyl - l - isoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to n - methyl - l - leucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to n - methyl - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n - palmitoylglycine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - phenylalanine residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - l - phenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - phenylalanine residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - d - phenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - threonine residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - d - allo - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to n - carbamoyl - l - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue to form 4 - amino - 3 - isothiazolidinone - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively attaches an l - threonine residue to murein peptidoglycan by a pentaglycine linker peptide .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n - glycyl - 1 -  ( phosphatidyl ) ethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to l - glutamyl 5 - omega - hydroxyceramide ester .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - tryptophan residue with an l - tyrosine residue by a carbon - carbon bond ,  and cross - links the l - tyrosine residue to an l - methionine residue by a thioether bond to form s -  [ 5' -  ( l - tryptoph - 6' - yl )  - l - tyrosin - 3' - yl ]  - l - methionin - s - ium .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o -  ( riboflavin phosphoryl )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  ( riboflavin phosphoryl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( 4a - fmn )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to 1' -  ( 8alpha - fmn )  - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to 3' -  ( 8alpha - fmn )  - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to n2 - acetyl - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteinyl copper sulfido molybdopterin cytosine dinuncleotide .
a protein modification that effectively converts three l - cysteine residues ,  an s - adenosylmethionine and a four - iron four - sulfur cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl s - adenosylmethion - n , o - diyl tetrairon tetrasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts three l - cysteine residues ,  an l - arginine residue and a two - iron two - sulfur cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - arginyl diiron disulfide .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - selenocysteine residues to form l - cysteinyl - l - selenocystine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 5 - hydroxy - n6 , n6 , n6 - trimethyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - glutamic acid residue and a glycine residue by an isopeptide bond to form n -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - glycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - sulfo - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - sulfo - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to n - carboxy - l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - acetyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to  ( e )  - 2 , 3 - didehydrotyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts two l - aspartic acid residues ,  three l - glutamic acid residues ,  an l - histidine residue ,  and a one - calcium ,  four - iron ,  four - oxygen cluster to bis - l - aspartato tris - l - glutamato l - histidino calcium tetramanganese tetroxide .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two l - tyrosine residues with a carbon - carbon bond to form 3' -  ( 3' - l - tyrosinyl )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links l - tyrosine residues with an ether bond to form 3' -  ( o4' - l - tyrosinyl )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to 3 , 4 - dihydroxy - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 4 , 5 - dihydroxy - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - histidine residue and 5' - phosphoadenosine through a phosphoramide ester bond to form 1' -  ( phospho - 5' - adenosine )  - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - histidine residue and 5' - phosphouridine through a phosphoramide ester bond to form 1' -  ( phospho - 5' - uridine )  - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to l - aspartyl semialdehyde .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to l - serine microcin e492 siderophore ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to l - aspartyl molybdenum bis ( molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - selenocysteine residue to l - selenocysteinyl tungsten bis ( molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide )  .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - methionyl - l - tyrosine dipeptide to form 3 -  ( 2 - methylthio ) ethyl - 6 -  ( 4 - hydroxybenzylidene )  - 5 - iminopiperazin - 2 - one .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - glutamic acid residue and a glycine residue to form 2 - imino - glutamic acid 5 - imidazolinone glycine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - methionine residue and a glycine residue to form 2 - imino - methionine 5 - imidazolinone glycine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - asparagine residue and a glycine residue to form l - asparagine 5 - imidazolinone glycine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - lysine residue and a glycine residue to form l - lysine 5 - imidazolinone glycine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - lysine residue and a glycine residue to form 2 - tetrahydropyridinyl - 5 - imidazolinone glycine .
a protein modification that effectively attaches an l - alanine residue to murein peptidoglycan by a pentaglycine linker peptide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to n - formyl - l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - decanoyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - octanoyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - decanoyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydroxyl group hydrogen with a methyl group to produce either an ether from an alcohol or an ester from an acid .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom with one acetyl group .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by formation of a thioester bond between a cysteine thiol and either an alpha - carbonyl ,  as in s -  ( l - methionyl - l - cysteine )  ,  or a sidechain carbonyl ,  as in s -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydrogen atom on an oxygen with a carbohydrate - like group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction with iodoacetamide ,  usually replacement of a reactive hydrogen with a methylcarboxamido group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a carbamoyl  ( carboxamido )  group .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction with iodoacetic acid ,  usually replacement of a reactive hydrogen with a methylcarboxy group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a carboxamido group with a carboxyl group ,  with both a gain of oxygen and loss of a nitrogen and a hydrogen .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct of a cysteine residue with the gygi isotope - coded affinity tag d0 reagent .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct of a cysteine residue with the gygi isotope - coded affinity tag d8 reagent .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to homoserine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to homoserine lactone .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct of a cysteine residue with the applied biosystems original isotope - coded affinity tag d8 reagent .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct of a cysteine residue with the applied biosystems original isotope - coded affinity tag d0 reagent .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a carboxyl group with a carboxy methyl ester group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino or imino hydrogen with an acetyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino group with a formamido group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( n - isopropylcarboxamidomethyl )  - l - cysteine .
modification from unimod isotopic label .
modification from unimod artifact .obsolete because unimod entry 19 is now merged with unimod 35 remap to mod:00425 'monohydroxylated residue' .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction of a cysteine residue with biotinyl - iodoacetamidyl - 3 , 6 - dioxaoctanediamine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom of an l - arginine residue with one methyl group .
modification from unimod  -  obsolete because unimod entry 22 is now merged with entry 21 remap to mod:00696 'phosphorylated residue' .
a change resulting in an alteration of the measured molecular mass of a peptide or protein hydroxyl amino acid phosphorylated promptly followed by secondary loss of a neutral trihydrogen phosphate molecular fragment .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - carboxamidoethyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an  ( pyridin - 3 - yl ) acetyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to  ( r )  - 5 - oxo - 1 , 4 - tetrahydrothiazine - 3 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to 2 - pyrrolidone - 5 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydrogen atom on a carbon with a carbohydrate - like group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a morpholine - 2 - acetyl group .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one sodium atom for one hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - pyridylethyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom with a hydroxyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydrogen atom on a sulfur with a carbohydrate - like group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces two hydrogen atoms with two hydroxyl groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces two hydrogen atoms with two methyl groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces three hydrogen atoms with three methyl groups .
covalent modification of ,  or a change resulting in an alteration of the measured molecular mass of ,  a peptide or protein amino acid residue with a secondary loss of a neutral molecular fragment .
covalent modification of ,  or a change resulting in an alteration of the measured molecular mass of ,  a peptide or protein amino acid residue with a secondary loss of a neutral trihydrogen phosphate molecular fragment .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an glucose group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a hexose sugar group through a glycosidic bond .
covalent modification of a peptide or protein amino acid phosphorylated serine with a secondary loss of a neutral trihydrogen phosphate molecular fragment .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with an n - acetylhexosamine group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a farnesyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a myristoyl group .
covalent modification of a peptide or protein amino acid phosphorylated threonine with a secondary loss of a neutral trihydrogen phosphate molecular fragment .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a palmitoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a geranylgeranyl group .
covalent modification of a peptide or protein l - arginine residue to protonated omega - n , omega - n' - dimethylated l - arginine with secondary loss of an n , n' - carbodiimide molecular fragment .
covalent modification of a peptide or protein l - arginine residue to protonated omega - n , omega - n - dimethlyated l - arginine with secondary neutral loss of an n , n - dimethylamine molecular fragment .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to n - palmitoyl - s -  ( sn - 1 - 2 , 3 - dipalmitoyl - glycerol ) cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to l - homoarginine ,  such as reaction with o - methylisourea .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct of a residue with 4 - hydroxynonenal .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a glucuronic acid either through a carboxyl group amide or ester bond ,  or through c1 - glycosylation .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an n - acetylaminoglucose group through a glycosidic bond .
modification from unimod isotopic label
obsolete because this isotopic label from unimod entry 57 is deprecated
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a propanoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a 3x ( 13 ) c - labeled propanoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a quaternary amine reagent light form group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a quaternary amine reagent heavy  (  + 3amu )  form group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a quaternary amine reagent heavy  (  + 6amu )  form group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a quaternary amine reagent heavy  (  + 9amu )  form group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a light succinyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a 4x ( 2 ) h labeled succinyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a 4x ( 13 ) c labeled succinyl group .
a protein modification that effectively trioxygenates an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteine sulfonic acid .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a nitrite  ( no2 )  group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to l - kynurenine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to 3' - hydroxy - l - kynurenine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to n' - formyl - l - kynurenine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to a dihydroxyphenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a residue to a glycosylsphingolipidinositolethanolamidated .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes an iminobiotinyl group for a hydrogen atom .
modification from unimod isotopic label
modification from unimod isotopic label
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod isotopic label
modification from unimod isotopic label
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( 1 , 1 , 2 -  ( 2 ) h3 )  - propanamide - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to 2 - amino - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an galactose group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively converts ,  by oxidative decarboxylation ,  an l - proline residue to 2 - pyrrolidone with breakage of the peptide chain .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to l - glutamyl semialdehyde .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to l - glutamyl semialdehyde .
modification from unimod isotopic label
modification from unimod isotopic label
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to n - formyl - l - methionine  ( not known as a natural ,  post - translational modification process )  .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction with n - ethylmaleimide .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification that crosslinks the n6 - amino of a peptidyl lysine with the carboxyl of glycylglycine ,  the two glycine residues left after tryptic digestion of ubiquitin .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a formyl group .
modification from unimod isotopic label
modification from unimod isotopic label
obsolete because unimod entry 125 is merged with entry 199 ,  remap to id: mod:00552
modification from unimod  [  ( 35 ) s ] dithiobis ( succinimidyl propionate )  crosslinking
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a hydrogen of a residue with a fluorine atom .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one hydrogen atom of a residue with one iodine atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes two hydrogen atoms of a residue with two iodine atoms .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes three hydrogen atoms of a residue with three iodine atoms .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n -  ( cis - delta 5 )  - tetradecaenoylglycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n -  ( cis , cis - delta 5 , delta 8 )  - tetradecadienoylglycine .
modification from unimod isotopic label
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  hex ( 5 )  hexnac ( 2 ) 
obsolete because redundant ,  replaced by mod:01653 .
obsolete because this is an ion type and is not a biological or chemical modification to a polypeptide ,  can be handled by psi - ms cv term ,  ms:1001229
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  dhex hexnac
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  hexnac ( 2 ) 
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  hex3
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  dhex ( 2 )  hexnac
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  dhex hex hexnac
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  dhex hexnac ( 2 ) 
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a carbohydrate - like group composed of hex1hexnac1neuac1 linked through a glycosidic bond .
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a carbohydrate - like group composed of hex1hexnac1neuac2 linked through a glycosidic bond .
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to l - selenomethionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to l - aspartic acid with one  ( 18 ) o as the result of having been deglycosylated in  ( 18 ) o water .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod post - translational
modification from unimod chemical derivative
obsolete because unimod 179 merged with unimod 447 remap to ???
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to l - alanine .
modified amino acid residues groups into isobaric sets at particular mass resolution cut - offs .
obsolete because unimod 179 merged wth unimod 447 remap to ???
a protein modification that effectively converts a residue containing common isotopes to a 9x ( 13 ) c labeled residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to 9x ( 13 ) c labeled l - phosphotyrosine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification that effectively converts a residue containing common isotopes to a 6x ( 13 ) c labeled residue .
obsolete because redundant with mod:00927 .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes two  ( 18 ) o atom for the two  ( 16 ) o atoms of an alpha - carboxyl  ( 1 - carboxyl )  group .
modification from unimod chemical derivative used for amino acid analysis
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod isotopic label
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod isotopic label
a protein modification that effectively converts a residue containing common isotopes to a 4x ( 2 ) h labeled dimethylated residue .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a  ( 2 - sulfanylethyl ) sulfanyl  ( or thioethylthiol )  group for a hydroxy group .
obsolete because unimod entry 202 was merged with entry 195 ,  remap to mod:00548 . modification from unimod chemical derivative
obsolete because unimod entry 202 was merged with entry 195 ,  remap to mod:00548 . modification from unimod chemical derivative
obsolete because this modification not supported by any literature that i can find [ pmt ] 
obsolete because this modification not supported by the papers listed or any other that i can find [ pmt ] 
obsolete because this modification not supported by any literature that i can find [ pmt ] 
obsolete because this modification not supported by any literature that i can find [ pmt ] 
obsolete because this modification not supported by any literature that i can find [ pmt ] 
modification from unimod isotopic label
modification from unimod isotopic label
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an n - acetylaminogalactose group through a glycosidic bond .
modification from unimod isotopic label .
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
modification from unimod chemical derivative
obsolete because unimod entry 244 is redundant with unimod 348 .
obsolete because unimod entry 245 is redundant with unimod 349 .
natural or modified residues that are isobaric at a resolution below 0 .000001 da .
natural or modified residues with a mass of 71 .037114 da .
a modification that effectively oxygenates c5 of an l - proline residue to form a 2 - pyrrolidone - 5 - carboxylic acid ,  pyroglutamic acid .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod other
modification occurs as a schiff base in the presence of pentalysine
obsolete because this modification not supported by any literature that i can find  [ pmt ] 
obsolete because not supported by the linked literature  [ pmt ]  .
obsolete because entry removed from unimod .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one  ( 18 ) o atom for one  ( 16 ) o atom .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 6x ( 13 ) c , 2x ( 15 ) n labeled l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a thiophosphono group  ( h2po2s ,  'thiophosphate' )  .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct with 4 - sulfophenyl isothiocyanate .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes three  ( 2 ) h deuterium atoms for three  ( 1 ) h protium atoms .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to 6x ( 13 ) c ,  4x ( 15 ) n labeled l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - valine residue to 5x ( 13 ) c , 1x ( 15 ) n labeled l - valine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to  ( 13 ) c ,  ( 15 ) n labeled l - phenylalanine .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
obsolete because removed from unimod .
natural or modified resiues with a mass of 113 .047678 da .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an manose group through a glycosidic bond
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) benzenesulfonyl fluoride ,  aebs .
obsolete because unimod entry 277 redundant with unimod 39 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) cysteine
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom with one methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to l - glutamate 5 - ethyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively produces an heterocyclic amino acid with a covalent bond between the side chain and either its alpha amino or 1 - carboxyl group ,  possibly breaking the peptide chain .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue amino or imino group with an methyl group .
obsolete because unimod entry 283 is redundant with unimod 280 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 2x ( 2 ) h labeled monomethylated l - lysine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative ,  c - terminal / glutamate / aspartate sulfonation
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification that is produced by reaction of iodouridine monophosphate with a residue .
a protein modification that is produced by derivatization of a residue with 3 , 3 - dithiobis [ sulfosuccinimidyl propanoate ]  ,  dtssp ,  or with pierce ez - link sulfo - nhs - ss - biotin reagent ,  sulfosuccinimidyl 3 -  [  ( 2 -  [ biotinamido ] ethyl ) disulfanyl ] propanoate ,  followed by reduction with dithiothreitol and then reaction with iodoacetamide .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a fucose  ( 6 - deoxy - d - galactose )  group through a glycosidic bond .
obsolete because entry unimod:261 site n - term r was abandoned .
natural or modified residues that are isobaric at a resolution below 0 .1 da .
a protein modification that effectively converts a residue containing common isotopes to a 3x ( 2 ) h labeled residue methyl ester .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
obsolete because entry 300 is redundant with unimod 6 remap to mod:01328
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
natural or modified residues with a mass of 113 .0 - 113 .1 da .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with two hexose sugar groups through glycosidic bonds
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
obsolete because this chemical derivative modification from unimod 321 is deprecated .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to s - ethylcysteine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom of an l - arginine residue with a  ( 13 ) c , 3x ( 2 ) h labeled methyl group to form a 1x ( 13 ) c , 3x ( 2 ) h labeled monomethylated l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces two hydrogen atoms of an l - arginine residue with two  ( 13 ) c , 3x ( 2 ) h labeled methyl groups to form a 2x ( 13 ) c , 6x ( 2 ) h labeled dimethylated l - arginine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
obsolete because unimod entry 334 is merged with unimod 293 .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct of a residue with 4 - hydroxynonenal artificially reduced by a reagent such as nabh4 .
modification from unimod artifact
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl group with an acetoxy group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfanyl group with an acetylsulfanyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to either n - acetyl - l - cysteine or s - acetyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to either n - acetyl - l - serine ,  o - acetyl - l - serine ,  or n , o - diacetyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to n , o - diacetyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an acyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino group with a myristoylamino group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino group with a palmitoylamino group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl group with a palmitoyloxy group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfanyl group with an palmitoylsulfanyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a sulfanyl group with a methylsulfanyl group
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfanyl group with an myristoylsulfanyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydrocarbyl hydrogen with an methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to l - glutamate 5 - methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to a methylated arginine ,  either 5 - methylargine ,  n5 - methylarginine ,  or an omega - n - methylated l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to a methylated glutamine ,  either 2 - methylated glutamine ,  n5 - methylated glutamine ,  or methyl esterified deamidated glutamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to a methylated cysteine ,  either s - methylcysteine ,  or cysteine methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to a methylated histidine ,  such as pros - methylhistidine ,  or tele - methylhistidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to a methylated leucine ,  either n - methylleucine ,  or leucine methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to a methylated lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue l - enantiomer  ( stereoisomer )  with a d - enantiomer or with a different diastereomeric isomer .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to a methylated alanine ,  such as n - methylalanine ,  n , n - dimethylalanine ,  or n , n , n - trimethylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an octanoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a decanoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl group with a decanoyloxy group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl group with a octanoyloxy group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with an acyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl group with a acyloxy group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfanyl group with an acylsulfanyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to a methylated asparagine ,  such as n4 - methyl - l - asparagine ,  or n4 , n4 - dimethyl - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a carboxyl group with a carboxamido group .
a protein modification that effectively either removes neutral hydrogen atoms  ( proton and electron )  ,  or adds oxygen atoms to a residue with or without the removal of hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that effectively adds oxygen atoms to a residue with or without the removal of hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an hydroxyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to an hydroxylated l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively adds oxygen atoms to a carbon atom of a residue and removes hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that effectively adds oxygen atoms to a sulfur atom of a residue without removing hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to a hydroxylated l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to a hydroxylated l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively removes neutral hydrogen atoms  ( proton and electron )  from a residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to l - aspartic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to l - glutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - selenocysteine  ( not known as a natural ,  post - translational modification process )  .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by formation of a thioether bond between a cysteine thiol and either an alkyl c as in lanthionine ,  or an aryl c as 2' -  ( s - cysteinyl )  - l - histidine .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues with an amide bond where either the donor amino or carboxyl is not an alpha group .
a protein modification that crosslinks two cysteine residues by formation of a disulfide bond .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by formation of an oxazole or thiazole ring .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by formation of an 5 - imidazolinone ring .
a protein crosslink modification that is not chemically categorized .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an carbohydrate - like group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a halogen atom for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a sulfonyl group for the hydrogen atom of a hydroxyl or sulfanyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a phosphono group  ( h2po3 or 'phosphate' )  .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a flavin group .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a metal atom or a metal cluster for hydrogen atoms ,  or coordinates a metal ion .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a porphyrin group .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a tetrapyrrole group .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a nucleotide or a polynucleotide through formation of either a phosphodiester bond ,  a phosphoramide ester bond ,  or a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes atoms of particular common isotopes with atoms or groups containing isotopes that are not the most common .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a group derived from an isoprene polymer ,  such as a geranyl  ( c10 )  ,  farnesyl  ( c15 )  or geranylgeranyl  ( c20 )  group .
a protein modification that effectively forms a double bond by removing a molecule of water from a residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - valine residue to d - valine .
a protein modification that effectively converts l - tyrosine to 2 , 3 - didehydrotyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to a multihydroxylated l - phenylalanine
a protein modification that effectively adds oxygen atoms to a sulfur atom of l - cysteine residue without removing hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that effectively adds oxygen atoms to a sulfur atom of l - methionine residue without removing hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that effectively adds a proton and replaces two hydrogen atoms with two methyl groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces three hydrogen atoms with three methyl groups ,  after a proton has been added to form an aminium group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to a methylated proline ,  such as n , n - dimethylproline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to a methylated glutamic acid ,  such as l - glutamate 5 - methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to a methylated glycine ,  such as n - methylglycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to a methylated isoleucine residue ,  such as n - methyl - l - isoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to a methylated methionine ,  such as n - methyl - l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to a methylated phenylalanine ,  such as n - methyl - l - phenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to a methylated tyrosine ,  such as n - methyl - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that oxygenates an l - methionine residue to one of the diastereomeric l - methionine sulfoxide residues .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00720 .
a protein modification that effectively oxygenates an l - methionine residue to l - methionine sulfoxide s - diastereomer .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom of an l - glutamine residue with one methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to either n2 - acetyl - l - lysine ,  or n6 - acetyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom on a nitrogen of an l - histidine residue with one methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a carbohydrate - like group linked through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a glucose group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a mannose group through a glycosidic bond , 
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a galactose group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a pentose sugar group through a glycosidic bond
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a arabinose sugar group through a glycosidic bond
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a ribose sugar group through a glycosidic bond
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a xylose sugar group through a glycosidic bond
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with an n - acetylglucosamine group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with an n - acetylgalactosamine group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a hexosuronic acid group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a deoxyhexose group through a glycosidic bond
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with an n - acetylneuraminic acid  ( sialic acid )  group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes an iron atom or a cluster containing iron for hydrogen atoms ,  or that coordinates an iron ion .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a cluster of iron and sulfur atoms for hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a manganese atom or a cluster containing manganese for hydrogen atoms ,  or that coordinates a manganese ion .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a nickel atom or a cluster containing nickel for hydrogen atoms ,  or that coordinates a nickel ion .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a copper atom or a cluster containing copper for hydrogen atoms ,  or that coordinates a copper ion .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a molybdenum atom or a cluster containing molybdenum for hydrogen atoms ,  or that coordinates a molybdenum ion .
a protein modification containing a molybdenum atom in a pterin ring system .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a selenium atom or a cluster containing selenium for hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a tungsten atom or a cluster containing tungsten for hydrogen atoms ,  or that coordinates a tungsten ion .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a sodium atom for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a pterin group .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a sulfur atom for an oxygen atom .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an amino acid residue and the 3' -  or 5' - end of dna through a phosphodiester bond .
a protein modification
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with one adp - ribose through formation of a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a chlorine atom for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a bromine atom for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes an iodine atom of a residue for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - valine residue to 4 - hydroxy - d - valine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to o4 - galactosyl - l - hydroxyproline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to o4 -  ( n - acetylamino ) glucosyl - l - hydroxyproline .
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation  -  missing ref
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with one hexose sugar group through a glycosidic bond .
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation  -  missing ref
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation  -  missing ref
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a carbohydrate - like group either through enzymatic formation of a glycosidic bond ,  or through non - enzymatic glycation formation of a schiff - base or an amadori ketosamine residue adduct .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( l - cysteinyl )  - l - cysteine ,  forming a disulfide bond with free cysteine .
modification from unimod post - translational  -  c - terminal loss of lysine obsolete because the idenical to mod:01642 .
a modification produced in a non - enzymatic reaction between a carbohydrate carbonyl group  ( c1 of aldohexose or c2 of fructose )  and a protein amino group to form a schiff - base or an amadori ketosamine residue adduct .
oxidation of methionine to methionine sulfone with neutral loss of ch3so2h .
natural or modified residues with a mass of 71 .0 - 71 .1 da .
natural or modified residues that are isobaric at a resolution below 0 .01 da .
natural or modified residues with a mass of 166 .98 - 167 .00 da .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a vanadium atom or a cluster containing vanadium for hydrogen atoms ,  or that coordinates a vanadium ion .
natural or modified residues with a mass of 181 .00 - 181 .02 da .
natural or modified residues with a mass of 243 .02 - 243 .03 da .
an artifactual protein modification that converts an l - histidine residue to l - asparagine by oxidative degradation .
an artifactual protein modification that converts an l - histidine residue to l - aspartic acid by oxidative degradation .
natural or modified residues with a mass of 182 .96 - 182 .98 da .
natural or modified residues with a mass of 182 .9 - 183 .0 da .
obsolete because redundant with mod:00130 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n - acetyl - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to n2 - acetyl - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to n - acetyl - l - leucine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces two hydrogen atoms of an l - arginine residue with two methyl groups .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to n - acetyl - l - phenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to n2 - acetyl - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one or more  ( 2 ) h deuterium atoms for  ( 1 ) h protium atoms .
modification from unimod  -  label for the active site serine of the serine esterase / protease family also shown to label tyrosine in serum albumin
modification from unimod
modification from unimod  -  isotopic label icpl method  -  the paper describes an h / d labeling strategy whereas the commercial product follows a c / 13c labeling strategy .
modification from unimod  -  isotopic label icpl method  -  the paper describes an h / d labeling strategy whereas the commercial product follows a c / 13c labeling strategy .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to l - glutamic acid with one  ( 18 ) o .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one  ( 2 ) h deuterium atom for one  ( 1 ) h protium atom .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to dehydroalanine .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00477 .
modification from unimod
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to l - ornithine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to the pep adduct ,  2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl ) pyruvic acid o - phosphothioketal
a protein modification that can be regarded as effectively either one half of a cystine cross - link ,  or a cysteine residue with one hydrogen atom or proton removed .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - galactosyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue ,  an l - histidine residue ,  homocitric acid and a one - vanadium seven - iron nine - sulfur cluster to l - cysteinyl - l - histidino - homocitryl vanadium heptairon nonasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue ,  an l - histidine residue ,  homocitric acid and an eight - iron nine - sulfur cluster to l - cysteinyl - l - histidino - homocitryl octairon nonasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to l - histidino vanadium tetraoxide
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - tyrosine residue by a thioether bond to form 3 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o3 - beta - glucosylated l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o3 -  ( n - acetylaminoglucosyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o3 -  ( n - acetylaminoglucosyl )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to pyruvic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o3 - galactosylserine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o3 - galactosylthreonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o3 - mannosylserine .
a protein modification that effectively forms a o3 - mannosylthreonine
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to an o - fucosylserine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an threonine residue to an o - fucosylthreonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o3 - xylosylserine .
obsolete because redundant with mod:00151 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - stearoyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to 3' - geranyl - 2' , 3' - dihydro - 2' , n2 - cyclo - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts a residue to a glycosylphosphatidylinositolethanolamidated .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to l - 2 - aminobutanoic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - aspartic acid residue and a glycine residue to form 2 - imino - alanine 5 - imidazolinone glycine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - alanine residue and an l - cysteine residue by a thioester bond to form s -  ( l - alanyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - leucine residue and an l - cysteine residue by a thioester bond to form s -  ( l - leucyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - methionine residue and an l - cysteine residue by a thioester bond to form s -  ( l - methionyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to dehydroalanine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - phenylalanine residue and an l - cysteine residue by a thioester bond to form s -  ( l - phenylalaninyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - threonine residue and an l - cysteine residue by a thioester bond to form s -  ( l - threonyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - tyrosine residue and an l - cysteine residue by a thioester bond to form s -  ( l - tyrosyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - tryptophan residue and an l - cysteine residue by a thioester bond to form s -  ( l - tryptophanyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - phenylalanine residue and an l - serine residue by an ester bond to form s -  ( l - phenylalaninyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to an n - methyl - l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n4 -  ( n - acetylaminoglucosyl )  - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n4 -  ( n - acetaminogalactosyl )  - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n4 - glucosyl - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o3 -  ( n - acetamino ) fucosylserine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to l - oxoalanine .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes two  ( 2 ) h deuterium atoms for two  ( 1 ) h protium atoms .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes four  ( 2 ) h deuterium atoms for four  ( 1 ) h protium atoms .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes three  ( 1 ) h protium atoms with three  ( 2 ) h deuterium atoms to produce 3x ( 2 ) h labeled l - leucine .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes atoms of particular common isotopes with atoms of or groups containing deuteriumm ,   ( 2 ) h .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct with an isocyanate compound .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct with an isothiocyanate compound .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes atoms of particular common isotopes with atoms of or groups containing  ( 13 ) c .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes atoms of particular common isotopes with atoms of or groups containing  ( 15 ) n .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes atoms of particular common isotopes with atoms of or groups containing  ( 18 ) o .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one or more  ( 18 ) o atoms for  ( 16 ) o atoms .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes two  ( 18 ) o atom for two  ( 16 ) o atoms .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with a particular compound used as a reagent .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a potassium atom for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that inserts or replaces a residue with an unnatural residue that is not considered to be derived from a natural residue by some chemical process .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a carboxamido group with a carboxyl group labeled with  ( 18 ) o .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a carboxamido group with a carboxyl group labeled with one  ( 18 ) o .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a carboxamido group with a carboxyl group labeled with two  ( 18 ) o .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine to l - lysinium  ( protonated l - lysine )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysinium  ( n6 - protonated l - lysine )  residue to an n6 , n6 , n6 - trimethyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to an l - alaninium  ( protonated l - alanine )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alaninium  ( protonated l - alanine )  residue to an n , n , n - trimethyl - l - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to d - alanine .
a protein modification that can be derived from different natural residues by different chemical processes .
a protein modification that produces an amino acid residue containing an exogenous sulfur atom .
a protein modification that produces an amino acid residue containing a phosphorus atom .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to d - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to d - allo - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts three l - cysteine residues ,  an l - histidine residue and a two - iron two - sulfur cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - histidino diiron disulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to n - aspartyl - glycosylsphingolipidinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to one of several dihydroxylated proline residues ,  such as  ( 2s , 3r , 4r )  - 3 , 4 - dihydroxyproline or  ( 2s , 3r , 4s )  - 3 , 4 - dihydroxyproline .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - cysteine converted to an l - selenocysteine residue to form l - cysteinyl - l - selenocystine .
a protein modification that inserts or replaces a residue with a natural ,  non - standard encoded residue ,  such as n - formyl - l - methionine ,  l - selenocysteine ,  or l - pyrrolysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to l - alanine .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct with phenyl isocyanate .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct with  ( 2 ) h5 - phenyl isocyanate .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:01970 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to isoglutamyl glutamyl - glutamic acid ,  forming an isopeptide bond with a diglutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to isoglutamyl glutamyl - glutamyl - glutamic acid ,  forming an isopeptide bond with a triglutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to isoglutamyl glutamyl - glutamyl - glutamyl - glutamic acid ,  forming an isopeptide bond with a tetraglutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a hexosamine sugar group through a glycosidic bond .
dimethyl pimelimidate modification from unimod
dimethyl pimelimidate modification from unimod  -  mechanism of the reaction of imidoesters with amines
modification from unimod
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct with 6x ( 13 ) c labeled 4 - sulfophenyl isothiocyanate .
obsolete because unimod entry 465 megerd with 199 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to s -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a 1 - carboxyl group  ( usually referred to as the alpha - carboxyl )  with a carboxamido group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - 2 - aminoethylcysteine .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by formation of an ester bond .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to 6' - chloro - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to a methylated aspartic acid ,  such as aspartic acid 4 - methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline to an l - prolinium  ( protonated l - proline )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - prolinium  ( charged l - proline )  residue to n , n - dimethyl - l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to a phosphorylated l - histidine ,  such as pros - phosphohistidine ,  or tele - phosphohistidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to d - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to d - serine .
natural or modified residues with a mass of 128 .0 - 128 .1 da .
natural or modified resiues with a mass of 128 .058578 da .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a flavin adenine dinucleotide  ( fad )  group .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a riboflavin phosphate  ( flavin mononucleotide ,  fmn )  group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to n - acetyl - s - archeol - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( sn - 1 - 2 - oleoyl - 3 - palmitoyl - glycerol ) cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to n - palmitoyl - s - diacylglycerol - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to n - palmitoyl - s -  ( sn - 1 - 2 - oleoyl - 3 - palmitoyl - glycerol ) cysteine .
a protein modification that modifies an l - alanine .
a protein modification that modifies an l - arginine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - asparagine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - aspartic acid residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - cysteine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - glutamic acid residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - glutamine residue .
a protein modification that modifies a glycine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - histidine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - isoleucine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - leucine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - lysine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - methionine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - phenylalanine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - proline residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - serine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - threonine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - tryptophan residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - tyrosine residue .
a protein modification that modifies an l - valine residue .
new uncategorized unimod .obsolete because organizational use is no longer required .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - lysine residue and an l - threonine residue by an isopeptide bond to form n6 -  ( l - threonyl )  - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an amino acid residue or of a modifying group with a heptose sugar group through a glycosidic bond .
modification from unimod non - standard residue .
a protein modification that effectively replaces two hydrogen atoms of a residue containing common isotopes with two  ( 13 ) c , 3x ( 2 ) h labeled methyl groups to form a 2x ( 13 ) c , 6x ( 2 ) h labeled dimethylated residue .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a modification produced in a non - enzymatic reaction between a lactose carbonyl group and an l - lysine to form a schiff - base or an amadori ketosamine lysine adduct .
tyrosine adduct with substrate analog inhibitor 1 , 2 - dideoxy - 2' - methyl - alpha - d - glucopyranoso -  [ 2 , 1 - d ]  - delta2' - thiazoline .
modification from unimod other  -  bhtoh is formed upon metabolism of bht with p450 enzymes .
modification from unimod isotopic label
modification from unimod chemical derivative  -  5 - hydro - 5 - methylimidazol - 4 - one ,  arginine methylglyoxal arginine adduct  (  + 54 amu ) 
modification from unimod post - translational
oxidation of methionine to methionine sulfoxide with neutral loss of ch3soh .
modification from unimod post - translational
modification from unimod post - translational
modification from unimod post - translational
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct with 3 - methyl - 2 - pyridyl isocyanate .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification that effectively substitutes four  ( 1 ) h protium atoms with four  ( 2 ) h deuterium atoms to produce  ( 4 , 4 , 5 , 5 -  ( 2 ) h4 )  - l - lysine .
modification from unimod isotopic label
modification from unimod isotopic label
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00626 .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues with a covalent bond and the loss of ammonia .
entries from deltamass see http: /  / www .abrf .org / index .cfm / dm .home?avgmass=all .
obsolete because this is a modification that occurs to dna / rna and not proteins .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links four l - lysine residues to form desmosine .
obsolete because this modification has not been seen / reported on since this original publication in 1994 and carboxymethylation of proteins is common enough for this mass shift to have been seen in the intervening 25 +  years .
covalent modification of a peptide or protein l - glutamic acid residue to gamma - carboxyglutamic acid with secondary loss of a neutral carbon dioxide molecular fragment .
a protein modification that crosslinks an aspartic acid and the following glycine residue with the formation of  ( 2 - aminosuccinimidyl ) acetic acid and the loss of a water molecule .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - glutamic acid residue and an l - serine residue by an ester bond and releasing water to form o -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues with a covalent bond and the loss of water .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - serine residue and an l - histidine residue to release water and form tele -  or pros -  ( 2 - amino - 2 - carboxyethyl ) histidine .
modification from deltamass
covalent modification of ,  or a change resulting in an alteration of the measured molecular mass of ,  a peptide or protein amino acid residue with a secondary loss of a neutral carbon dioxide molecular fragment .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively replaces a carboxylic acid group with a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively reduces the disulfide bond of cystine to form two cysteine residues .
a protein modification that by reducing the indole ring system of tryptophan to indoline effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to 2' , 3' - dihydrotryptophan .
modification from deltamass .obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00462 .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively converts an n - terminal l - cysteine residue by a formadehyde adduct to 4 - thiazolidinecarboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an n - terminal l - tryptophan residue by a formadehyde adduct to 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetrahydro - beta - carboline - 3 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two l - lysine residues to form syndesine ,  hydroxylysinohydroxynorleucine .
obsolete because this isn't a protein modification ,  but rather the difference between two known modifications .
obsolete because this isn't a protein modification ,  but rather the difference between two known modifications .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to 2 - oxohistidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to a monobrominated l - phenylalanine ,  such as l - 2' - bromophenylalanine .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass  -  obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:01072 .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass  -  obsolete because redundant ,  the difference component of mod:01060 .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to l - selenocysteine  ( not known as a natural post - translational modification process )  .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a hydrogen atom of an l - tyrosine residue with a halogen atom .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a hydrogen atom of an l - tyrosine residue with a chlorine atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a hydrogen atom of an l - tyrosine residue with a bromine atom .
obsolete because redundant ,  the difference component of mod:01079 .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to  ( 81 ) br - l - 2' - bromophenylalanine .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a hydrogen atom of an l - tyrosine residue with an iodine atom .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00404 .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one hydrogen atom of an l - tyrosine residue with one bromine atom .
a protein modification that inserts or replaces a residue with a 2 - aminoisobutyric acid .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively substitutes two hydrogen atoms of an l - tyrosine residue with two bromine atoms .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes an anisyl  ( methoxyphenyl )  group for a hydroxyl group ,  typically at the 4 or para position .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a benzyl  ( phenylmethyl )  group for a hydrogen atom .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a trifluoroacetyl group for a hydrogen atom .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively oxidizes the disulfide bond of a cystine crosslink to form two cysteic acid residues .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that inserts or replaces a residue with an isovaline .
modification from deltamass
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00403 .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 2 - piperidinecarboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to 3' , 5' - dibromo - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to one of several monohydroxylated proline residues ,  including 3 - hydroxy - l - proline and 4 - hydroxy - l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to 3' - bromo - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that inserts or replaces a residue with a norleucine .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one hydrogen atom of an l - tyrosine residue with one chlorine atom .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a succinyl group linked through a carbonyl carbon .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a benzyloxymethyl group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a p - methoxybenzyl group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a 4 - nitrophenyl group for a hydrogen atom .
modification from deltamass
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:01181 .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes two hydrogen atoms of an l - tyrosine residue with two chlorine atoms .
obsolete because this represents a free amino acid and the corresponding residue is mod:01026 .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00036 .
a protein modification that inserts or replaces a residue with a penicillamine .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a benzyloxycarbonyl group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a adamantyl group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a p - nitrobenzyl group for the hydrogen atom of a carboxyl group .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00080 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to 3' , 5' - dichloro - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to 3' - chloro - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to a monohydroxylated lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to 2 - pyrrolidone - 5 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a hydrogen atom of an l - histidine residue with a halogen atom .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - carboxamidomethyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - carboxymethyl - l - cysteine .
obsolete because duplicate and redundant with mod:01061 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to a monomethylated phenylalanine .
modification from deltamass
a modification produced in a non - enzymatic reaction between a carbohydrate carbonyl group  ( c1 of aldohexose or c2 of fructose )  and a protein n - terminal amino group to form a schiff - base or an amadori ketosamine   ( or aminoketose )  residue adduct .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a hydrogen atom of an l - phenylalanine residue with a halogen atom .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a hydrogen atom of an l - tryptophan residue with a halogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a 2 , 4 - dinitrophenyl group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a pentafluorophenyl group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a diphenylmethyl group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one potassium atom for one hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a 2 - chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a napthylacetyl group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a mercury atom or a cluster containing mercury for hydrogen atoms ,  or that coordinates a mercury ion .
modification from deltamass  -  obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00414 .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to s -  ( 2 - aminoethyl )  - 3 - methylcysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  [  ( acetylamino ) methyl ]  - l - cysteine .
obsolete because this is identical to mod:00417 .  modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
obsolete because redundant with mod:00757 ,  remap .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - benzyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that by reaction of iodoacetic acid effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a carboxymethyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n - terminal hydrogen atom of a n - terminal histidine residue with a gluconoyl group linked through a glycosidic bond .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a 2 , 4 , 5 - trichlorophenyl group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a 2 , 4 , 6 - trimethyloxybenzyl group for a hydrogen atom .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that by reaction of iodoacetamide effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a carboxamidomethyl group .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one hydrogen atom of an l - phenylalanine residue with one chlorine atom .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - carboxymethyl - l - lysine .
modification from deltamass .obsolete because not an amino acid modification .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - benzyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - benzyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that inserts or replaces a residue with a naphthylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to succinyl beta - aspartyl anhydride .
modification from deltamass
obsolete because erroneous and apparently redundant to mod:00111 .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00504 .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00503 .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to n - formyl - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to o5 - benzyl - l - glutamate .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to 2 - amino - 5 -  ( 4 - methoxyphenyl )  - 5 - oxopentanoic acid ,  glutamtic acid anisole adduct .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an l - cysteine residue with a group derived from an isoprene polymer ,  such as a geranyl  ( c10 )  ,  farnesyl  ( c15 )  or geranylgeranyl  ( c20 )  .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a dimethoxybenzhydryl group for a hydrogen atom .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of an l - tryptophan residue with a group derived from an isoprene polymer ,  such as a geranyl  ( c10 )  ,  farnesyl  ( c15 )  or geranylgeranyl  ( c20 )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - farnesyl - l - cysteine methyl ester .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n - terminal hydrogen atom of a n - terminal histidine residue with a 6 - phosphogluconoyl group linked through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - geranylgeranyl - l - cysteine methyl ester .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with 2 , 2 , 5 , 7 , 8 - pentamethylchroman - 6 - sulfonyl chloride ,  pmc chloride .
modification from deltamass
obsolete because this is a modification that occurs to dna / rna and not proteins .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:01123 .
modification from deltamass
obsolete because this is a modification that occurs to dna / rna and not proteins .
obsolete because this is a modification that occurs to dna / rna and not proteins .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:01166 .
modification from deltamass
obsolete because this is a modification that occurs to dna / rna and not proteins .
modification from deltamass
obsolete because this is a modification that occurs to dna / rna and not proteins .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:01165 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - 12 - hydroxyfarnesyl - l - cysteine methyl ester .
modification from deltamass
modification from deltamass
obsolete because this is a small molecule contaminant and not a modification to a polypeptide .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction of a lysine residue with 2 , 2 , 5 , 7 , 8 - pentamethylchroman - 6 - sulfonyl chloride ,  pmc chloride ,  to form n6 -  ( 2 , 2 , 5 , 7 , 8 - pentamethylchroman - 6 - sulfonyl )  - l - lysine .
obsolete because no evidence has been seen for this protein modification .
obsolete because this is a ms contaminant ,  not a known modification to a polypeptide .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes two hydrogen atoms of an l - tyrosine residue with two iodine atoms .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction with 2 , 2 , 5 , 7 , 8 - pentamethylchroman - 6 - sulfonyl chloride ,  pmc chloride ,  to form omega - n -  ( 2 , 2 , 5 , 7 , 8 - pentamethylchroman - 6 - sulfonyl )  - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between a cysteine residue and the tetrapyrrole compound 15 , 16 - dihydrobiliverdin .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between two cysteine residues and the tetrapyrrole compound 15 , 16 - dihydrobiliverdin .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( sn - 1 - 2 , 3 - dipalmitoyl - glycerol ) cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to n - tau -  ( adp - ribosyl ) diphthamide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( 6 - fad )  - l - cystine .
modification from deltamass
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks the n6 - amino of a peptidyl lysine with the carboxyl - terminal glycine of a ubiquitin .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks the n6 - amino of a peptidyl lysine with the carboxyl - terminal glycine of a sumo  ( small ubiquitin - related modifier )  protein .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks the n6 - amino of a peptidyl lysine with the carboxyl - terminal glycine of a nedd8 protein .
covalent modification of ,  or a change resulting in an alteration of the measured molecular mass of ,  a peptide or protein amino acid phosphorylated residue with a secondary loss of a neutral trihydrogen phosphate molecular fragment .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a carboxylic acid group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an methylsulfanyl group  ( thiomethyl group )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid to pyruvic acid .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a lipid - like group either through acylation ,  alkylation ,  or amidation .
modified amino acid residue derived from a natural amino acid by a real or hypothetical chemical process .
a protein modification considered either as modified amino acid residues derived from natural amino acids ,  as a replacement by another natural amino acid ,  or as a replacement by an unnatural amino acid .
a protein modification that modifies an l - selenocysteine residue .
a protein modification that effectively attaches a residue to murein peptidoglycan by either a pentaglycine linker peptide or a peptide - like l - alanyl - d - glutamyl - 2 , 6 - diaminopimelic acid linkage .
a protein modification that effectively results in the loss of an ammonia ,  usually by a process of vicinal dehydration ,  rearrangement ,  and rehydration with release of ammonia ,  resulting in a loss of nitrogen with no gain of oxygen .
a protein modification that effectively removes oxygen atoms from a residue without the removal of hydrogen atoms .
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an amino acid residue and 5' - phosphoguanosine through either a phosphodiester or a phosphoramide bond .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a riboflavin phosphate  ( flavin mononucleotide ,  fmn )  group through a phosphodiester bond .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an amino acid residue and 5' - phosphoadenosine through either a phosphodiester or a phosphoramide bond .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an amino acid residue and 5' - phosphouridine through either a phosphodiester or a phosphoramide bond .
modification from unimod
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to dehydroalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to l - oxoalanine .
a protein modification that effectively forms a 2 - ketoimine of pyruvicacid with a residue amino group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - acetyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to n - alanyl - glycosylsphingolipidinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n - asparaginyl - glycosylsphingolipidinositolethanolamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( 15 - deoxy - delta12 , 14 - prostaglandin j2 - 9 - yl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between a cysteine residue and the tetrapyrrole compound phycourobilin .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - lysine residue and an l - lysine residue converted to allysine with a carbon - nitrogen bond to form l - dehydrolysinonorleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to 1' -  ( 1 , 2 , 3 - trihydroxyprop - 2 - yl )  - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to s -  ( aspart - 4 - yloxy )  thiocarbonate .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to n , n - dimethyl - l - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to 2 - hydroxyglycine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to l - aspartate 4 - methyl ester .
a protein modification that crosslinks a cysteine and a histidine residue by forming the adduct 6 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - 8alpha -  (  - 3' - l - histidino )  - fad .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two l - selenocysteine residues to form l - selenocystine , 
a protein modification that effectively substitutes two selenium atoms for two sulfur atoms in l - cystine to form l - selenocystine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to either n - acetyl - l - threonne ,  or o - acetyl - lthreonine .
a protein modification that inserts or replaces a residue with an l - pyrrolysine residue ,  a natural pretranslational modification .
modification from unimod isotopic label  - 
modification from unimod isotopic label  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative .
modification from unimod isotopic label  - 
modification from unimod isotopic label  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod isotopic label  - 
obsolete because redundant ,  replaced with mod:01654 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to n - heptosyl - l - glutamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - heptosyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to an n - heptosyl - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - heptosyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - heptosyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n - heptosyl - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 -  [  ( pyrid - 3 - yl ) acetyl ] lysine .
modification from unimod artifact  - 
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 hydrogen atom of a serine residue with a carbohydrate - like group composed of hex1hexnac1neuac2 linked through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with a carbohydrate - like group composed of hex1hexnac1neuac2 linked through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n4 hydrogen atom of an asparagine residue with a carbohydrate - like group composed of hex1hexnac1neuac2 linked through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively converts a c - terminal residue to the copper ( 1 +  )  carboxylate salt .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to the copper ( 1 +  )  aspartate salt .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to the copper ( 1 +  )  glutamate salt .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 -  ( morpholine - 2 - acetyl )  - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 -  ( carboxamidomethyl ) lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to an iodoacetamide derivatized histidine ,  either 1' -  or 3' -  ( carboxamidolmethyl ) histidine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative  -  obsolete because redundant ,  the difference component of mod:01060 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to o4 -  ( carboxamidomethyl ) aspartate .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to o5 -  ( carboxamidomethyl ) glutamate .
modification from unimod isotopic label  - 
modification from unimod isotopic label  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - formyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - formyl - l - serine .
modification from unimod other  - 
modification from unimod other  - 
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue into an l - fluorotyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to an l - fluorotryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to an l - fluorophenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one hydrogen atom of an l - tyrosine residue with one iodine atom .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to an l - iodohistidine .
modification from unimod isotopic label  - 
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 3x ( 13 ) c labeled n6 - propanoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 3x ( 12 ) c labeled n6 - propanoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 3x ( 2 ) h labeled n6 - acetyl - l - lysine .
modification from unimod isotopic label  -  alkaline phosphatase to dephosphorylate
modification from unimod isotopic label  -  alkaline phosphatase to dephosphorylate
modification from unimod isotopic label  -  alkaline phosphatase to dephosphorylate
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct of an l - cysteine residue with 4 - hydroxynonenal .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct of an l - lysine residue with 4 - hydroxynonenal .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct of an l - histidine residue with 4 - hydroxynonenal .
a protein modification that crosslinks the n6 - amino of a peptidyl lysine with the carboxyl of leucyl - arginyl - glycyl - glycine ,  the c - terminal tetrapeptide of ubiquitin .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 3x ( 2 ) h labeled l - aspartic acid 4 - methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 3x ( 2 ) h labeled l - glutamic acid 5 - methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts a c - terminal residue to the potassium carboxylate salt .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamioc acid residue to the potassium glutamate salt .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to the potassium aspartate salt .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00812 after formula correction .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00813 after formula correction .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction of iodouridine monophosphate with an l - tyrosine residue to form an ether linkage .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction of iodouridine monophosphate with an l - tryptophan residue .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction of iodouridine monophosphate with an l - phenylalanine residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 -  [ 3 -  ( carboxamidomethylthio ) propanoyl ] lysine .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00933 .
modification from unimod chemical derivative  -  malondialdehyde  ( mda )  adduct
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 4x ( 2 ) h labeled dimethylated l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to s -  ( 2 - sulfanylethyl ) cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to 3 - methyl - s -  ( 2 - sulfanylethyl ) cysteine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
obsolete because there is no evidence in the literature of covalent modification of polypeptides with cytopiloyne or cytopiloyne + h2o .
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) benzenesulfonyl fluoride ,  aebs ,  and an l - serine residue .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) benzenesulfonyl fluoride ,  aebs ,  and an l - histidine residue .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) benzenesulfonyl fluoride ,  aebs ,  and an l - lysine residue .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) benzenesulfonyl fluoride ,  aebs ,  and an l - tyrosine residue .
modification from unimod other  - 
modification from unimod other  - 
modification from unimod other  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
obsolete because this modification is not supported by the linked literature  [ pmt ] 
obsolete because this modification is not supported by the linked literature  [ pmt ] 
obsolete because this modification is not supported by the linked literature  [ pmt ] 
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to 6x ( 13 ) c , 1x ( 15 ) n isotope labeled l - leucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to 6x ( 13 ) c , 1x ( 15 ) n isotope labeled l - isoleucine .
modification from unimod isotopic label  - 
obsolete because this is not supported by the literature  [ pmt ] 
obsolete because this is not supported by the literature  [ pmt ] 
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00465 .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00464 .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00075 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to l - aspartic acid with one  ( 18 ) o .
obsolete identical and redundant with mod:00791 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to monosodium l - aspartate .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to monosodium l - glutamate .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to 5x ( 13 ) c labeled l - proline .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct of an l - cysteine residue with 4 - hydroxynonenal artificially reduced by a reagent such as nabh4 .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct of an l - histidine residue with 4 - hydroxynonenal artificially reduced by a reagent such as nabh4 .
a protein modification produced by formation of an adduct of an l - histidine residue with 4 - hydroxynonenal artificially reduced by a reagent such as nabh4 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to 2 - amino - 3 -  ( methylamino ) butanoic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to 2 - amino - 3 -  ( methylamino ) propanoic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to an n4 - hexosaminyl - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to an n4 - hexosaminyl - l - lysine ,  as a synthetic peptide protectting group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to n1' - hexosaminyl - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - hexosaminyl - l - threonine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
a protein modification that effectively replaces a lysine n6 - hydrogen with a quaternary amine reagent light form group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a lysine n6 - hydrogen with a quaternary amine reagent heavy  (  + 3amu )  form group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a lysine n6 - hydrogen with a quaternary amine reagent heavy  (  + 6amu )  form group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a lysine n6 - hydrogen with a quaternary amine reagent heavy  (  + 9amu )  form group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 4x ( 1 ) h , 4x ( 12 ) c - labeled n6 - succinyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 4x ( 2 ) h - labeled n6 - succinyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 4x ( 13 ) c labeled n6 - succinyl - l - lysine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod other
modification from unimod other
modification from unimod other
obsolete because not supported by the linked literature  [ pmt ]  .
obsolete because not supported by the linked literature  [ pmt ]  .
obsolete because this is not supported by the linked literature  [ pmt ] 
obsolete because this is not supported by the linked literature  [ pmt ] 
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to 9x ( 13 ) c labeled l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to 9x ( 13 ) c labeled l - phenylalanine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative  -  hydroxylethanone
obsolete because duplicate and redundant with mod:01061 .
obsolete because identical with mod:01094 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to 6x ( 13 ) c labeled l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to 6x ( 13 ) c labeled l - leucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to 6x ( 13 ) c labeled l - isoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 6x ( 13 ) c labeled l - lysine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
obsolete  -  identical and redundant with mod:00657 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to l - aspartate 4 - methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - ethyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an ethyl group .
modification from unimod isotopic label  - 
modification from unimod isotopic label  - 
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00530 .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00686 .
obsolete because redundant and identical with mod:00835 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to 2 - amino - 3 - oxobutanoic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to an n4 - hexosyl - l - asparagine .
a modification produced in a non - enzymatic reaction between a carbohydrate carbonyl group  ( c1 of aldohexose or c2 of fructose )  and an l - lysine residue to form a schiff - base or an amadori ketosamine lysine adduct .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to an o - hexosyl - l - threonine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to a nitrated l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to a nitrated l - tyrosine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n4 hydrogen atom of an asparagine residue with a carbohydrate - like group composed of hex1hexnac1neuac1 linked through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with a carbohydrate - like group composed of hex1hexnac1neuac1 linked through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 hydrogen atom of a serine residue with a carbohydrate - like group composed of hex1hexnac1neuac1 linked through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces two hydrogen atoms of an l - lysine residue containing common isotopes with two  ( 13 ) c , 3x ( 2 ) h labeled methyl groups to form a 2x ( 13 ) c , 6x ( 2 ) h labeled dimethylated l - lysine .
modification from unimod isotopic label  -  use when labelling post - digest
modification from unimod isotopic label  -  use when labelling post - digest
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to the 4 - sulfophenyl isothiocyanate adduct ,  n6 -  [  ( 4 - sulfophenyl ) carbamothioyl ] lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - thiophospho - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - thiophospho - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to o4' - thiophospho - l - tyrosine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
modification from unimod chemical derivative  - 
a protein modification that effectively replaces a carboxamido group with a carboxyl methyl ester group .
a protein modification that effectively converts a residue containing common isotopes to a 6x ( 13 ) c , 1x ( 15 ) n labeled residue .
obsolete bcecause identical and redundant with mod:00851 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to a  ( 2s )  - 4 - hydroxyleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to a  ( 2s , 4r )  - 5 - hydroxyleucine .
a modification that effectively oxygenates c5 of an l - leucine residue to form a  ( 2s , 4r )  - 5 - oxoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to a  ( 2s , 4r )  - 4 , 5 - dihydroxyleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to a  ( 2s , 3s , 4r )  - 3 , 4 - dihydroxyisoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to a  ( 2s , 3r , 4s )  - 4 - hydroxyisoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to a  ( 2s , 3r , 4r )  - 4 , 5 - dihydroxyisoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to 2' - methylsulfonyl - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - tryptophan residue by a thioether bond to form 2' -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - 6' - hydroxy - l - tryptophan sulfoxide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - palmitoleyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to n , n , n - trimethyl - l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two l - cysteine residues and oxidizes a sulfur to form l - cystine s - oxide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to an aminomalonic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to 3 - hydroxy - l - phenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - valine residue to 3 - hydroxy - l - valine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - methyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue into 1 - amino - 2 - propanol .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - isoleucine residue to form l - isoleucine thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - valine residue to form l - valine thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - valine residue ,  and c - 5 methoxymethylates to form l - valine 5 -  ( methoxymethyl ) thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - asparagine residue ,  and c - 4 methylates to form l - asparagine 5 - methylthiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that crosslinks two serine residues and a cysteine residue by formation of a pyridine - 2 , 5 - dicarboxylic acid .
a protein modification that crosslinks two serine residues and a cysteine residue by formation of a 5 - amino - 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydropyridine - 2 , 5 - dicarboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between an isoleucine residue ,  a threonine residue and the quinaldate compound 2 - carboxy - 4 -  ( 1 - hydroxyethyl )  -  - 7 , 8 - dihydroquinolin - 8 - ol .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to a 5 - hydroxy - 3 - methyl - l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - serine residue and an l - threonine residue to form l - serine 5 - methyloxazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - propanoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to an n6 -  ( adp - ribosyl )  - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to an l - lysyl - poly ( adp - ribose )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to a  ( 2s , 3s )  - 3 - hydroxyasparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to a  ( 2s , 3r , 4r )  - 3 , 4 - dihydroxyproline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to a  ( 2s )  - 4 , 5 , 5' - trihydroxyleucine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - asparagine residue to form l - asparagine thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - proline residue to form l - proline thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - threonine residue to form l - threonine thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - phenylalanine residue to form l - phenylalanine thiazoline - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - threonine residue to form l - threonine thiazoline - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively replaces three hydrogen atoms with three hydroxyl groups .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to an hydroxylated leucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to a monohydroxylated leucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to a dihydroxylated leucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to a trihydroxylated leucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to an hydroxylated isoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to a monohydroxylated isoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to a dihydroxylated isoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to a monomethylated proline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to a methylated threonine ,  such as o - methyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by condensation of a serine or threonine hydroxyl with the carbonyl of the preceding residue to form an oxazole or oxazoline ring ,  or by rearrangement and condensation of a cysteine with the carbonyl of the preceding residue to form a 1 , 3 - oxazole - 4 - carbothionic acid .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by condensation of a cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue to form a thiazole or thiazoline ring .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by condensation of a serine hydroxyl with the carbonyl of the preceding residue to form an oxazole or oxazoline ring .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by condensation of a threonine hydroxyl with the carbonyl of the preceding residue to form a 5 - methyloxazole or 5 - methyloxazoline ring .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a palmitoleyl group .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a quinaldate ,  kynurenate ,  or xanthurenate group .
a protein modification that crosslinks three residues by formation of a pyridinyl ring ,  such as pyridine - 2 , 5 - dicarboxylic acid or 5 - aminopiperideine - 2 , 5 - dicarboxylic acid .
a protein modification that forms an adduct with a particular isotope labeled compound used as a reagent .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:00819 .
a protein modification that forms an adduct with a  ( 13 ) c labeled compound used as a reagent .
a protein modification that forms an adduct with a  ( 15 ) n labeled compound used as a reagent .
a protein modification that forms an adduct with a  ( 13 ) c labeled compound used as a reagent .
a protein modification that forms an adduct with a  ( 2 ) h labeled compound used as a reagent .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to a  ( 2s , 4s )  - 4 , 5 - dihydroxyleucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue into 1 - amino - 2 - propanone .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to a 4 - hydroxy - l - glutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between a cysteine residue ,  a glutamic acid residue and the indole compound 2 - carboxy - 3 - methyl - 4 - hydroxymethyl -  - indole .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to cyclo [  ( prolylserin )  - o - yl ]  cysteinate .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue ,  an l - proline residue ,  and an l - serine residue to cyclo [  ( prolylserin )  - o - yl ]  cysteinate .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  [ 2 -  ( pyridin - 2 - yl ) ethyl ]  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  [ 2 -  ( pyridin - 4 - yl ) ethyl ]  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to an l - glutamyl semialdehyde .
a protein modification that inserts or replaces a residue with a natural ,  standard ,  encoded residue .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - valine residue and an l - tyrosine residue by an ether bond to form 3 -  ( o4' - l - tyrosyl )  - l - valine .
a protein modification that effectively converts four l - glutamic acid residues and two l - histidine residues to tetrakis - l - glutamato bis - l - n1' - histidino lipid carboxylato manganese iron oxide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - 3 , 3 - dihydroxyoalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to l - 3 , 3 - dihydroxyoalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an n - formyl - lmethionine residue to n -  ( dihydroxymethyl )  - l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to n -  ( dihydroxymethyl )  - l - methionine  ( not known as a natural ,  post - translational modification process )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to l - 3 , 3 - dihydroxyoalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - 3 - oxoalanine residue to l - 3 , 3 - dihydroxyoalanine .
a protein modification that modifies an n - formyl - l - methionine residue .
a protein modification that converts an l - serine residue to o - phosphopantetheine - l - serine with secondary neutral loss of pantetheine resulting in o - phospho - l - serine .
covalent modification of a peptide or protein amino acid o - phosphopantetheine - l - serine with secondary neutral loss of pantetheine resulting in o - phospho - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to l - glutamate 5 - methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an n - terminal l - proline residue and a strand of dna at the c - 1 of a ribose ,  freeing the nucleotide base and forming n -  ( dna - 1' , 2' - dideoxyribos - 1' - ylidene )  - l - prolinium .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl or carboxyl hydrogen with a phosphono group  ( h2po3 or 'phosphate' )  .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue amino or imino group with a phosphono group  ( h2po3 or 'phosphate' )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to l - cysteine  ( not known as a natural ,  post - translational modification process )  .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with an acetyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an n - terminal residue to an 4x ( 2 ) h labeled alpha - dimethylamino n - terminal residue .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an l - alanine alpha amino hydrogen with a methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an l - proline alpha imino hydrogen with a methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an l - methionine alpha amino hydrogen with a methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to an l - methioninium  ( protonated l - methionine )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methioninium  ( protonated l - methionine )  residue to an n6 , n6 , n6 - trimethyl - l - methionine .
modification from unimod chemical derivative
modification from unimod chemical derivative
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - selenocysteinyl molybdenum bis ( molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide )   ( not known as a natural ,  post - translational modification process )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - selenocysteinyl tungsten bis ( molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide )   ( not known as a natural ,  post - translational modification process )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to  ( e )  - dehydrobutyrine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to  ( z )  - dehydrobutyrine .
a protein modification that effectively either adds neutral hydrogen atoms  ( proton and electron )  ,  or removes oxygen atoms from a residue with or without the addition of hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that effectively adds neutral hydrogen atoms  ( proton and electron )  to a residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  [ s -  ( carboxymethyl ) phosphopantetheine ]  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  [ s -  ( carboxamidomethyl ) phosphopantetheine ]  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to an 2' - fluoro - l - fluorophenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue to an 3' - fluoro - l - fluorophenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - phenylalanine residue into an 4' - fluoro - l - fluorophenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue into an 4' - fluoro - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue into an 5' - fluoro - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue into an 6' - fluoro - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a calcium atom or a cluster containing calcium for hydrogen atoms ,  or that coordinates a calcium ion .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl group with a formyloxy group .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - glutamic acid residue and an l - lysine residue by an isopeptide bond to form n6 -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - lysine and the release of water .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6 - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq4plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
modifications that have monoisotopic mass differences from their respective origins that are nominally equal  ( sometimes called isobaric )  at a resolution below 0 .1 da .
modifications that have monoisotopic mass differences from their respective origins that are nominally equal  ( sometimes called isobaric )  at a resolution below 0 .01 da .
modifications that have monoisotopic mass differences from their respective origins that are nominally equal  ( sometimes called isobaric )  at a resolution below 0 .000001 da .
modifications that have monoisotopic mass differences from their respective origins of 144 .099 - 144 .106 da .
modifications that have monoisotopic mass differences from their respective origins of 144 .102062 da .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with one of the applied biosystems itraq4plex reagent reporter + balance groups .
a distinct molecular entity produced from a protein or a protein modification as the result of a fragmentation process .
a distinct molecular entity produced as the result of a fragmentation process performed on a particular modified residue .
a protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq4plex reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq4plex 114 reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq4plex 115 reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq4plex 116 reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq4plex 117 reagent derivatized residue .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with one of the applied biosystems itraq8plex reagent reporter + balance groups .
a distinct molecular entity produced from a particular amino acid residue as the result of a fragmentation process .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 113 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 113 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 113 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 113 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 113 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 113 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 113 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 114 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 115 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 116 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 117 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 118 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 118 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 118 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 118 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 118 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 118 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 118 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 119 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 119 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 119 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 119 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 119 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 119 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 119 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 121 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 121 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 121 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 121 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 121 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 121 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the applied biosystems itraq8plex - 121 reporter + balance group .
modifications that have monoisotopic mass differences from their respective origins of 304 .199039 da .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - serine residue and a glycine residue by an ester bond to form o - glycyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - threonine residue and a glycine residue by an ester bond to form o - glycyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  ( 2 - aminoethylphosphoryl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o - cholinephosphoryl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  ( 2 , 4 - diacetamido - 2 , 4 - dideoxyglucosyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to 3' - farnesyl - 2' , 3' - dihydro - 2' , n2 - cyclo - l - tryptophan .
modifications that have monoisotopic mass differences from their respective origins of 304 .205359 da .
modifications that have monoisotopic mass differences from their respective origins of 304 .199 - 304 .206 da .
a protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq8plex reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq8plex - 113 reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq8plex - 114 reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq8plex - 115 reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq8plex - 116 reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq8plex - 117 reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq8plex - 118 reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq8plex - 119 reagent derivatized residue .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems itraq8plex - 121 reagent derivatized residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue ,  and an l - methionine residue to s -  ( l - lysyl )  - l - methionine sulfilimine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 2x ( 15 ) n labeled l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to 4x ( 15 ) n labeled l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to 5 - glutamyl 2 - aminoadipic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to 5 - glutamyl 2 - aminoadipic 6 - phosphoric anhydride .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to 5 - glutamyl allysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to n2 -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to 7' - hydroxy - 2' - alpha - mannosyl - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to l - threonine methyl ester .
a protein modification that crosslinks a cysteine and a histidine residue by forming the adduct 6 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - 8alpha -  (  - 3' - l - histidino )  - fmn .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to 3' - iodo - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to 3' , 5' - diiodo - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to glycyl phospho - 5' - adenosine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and a glycine residue by a dithioester bond to form glycyl cysteine dithioester .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two l - cysteine residues and adds three sulfur atoms to form trithiocystine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o -  ( 6 - phosphomannosyl )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alaine residue and an l - asparagine residue to l - alanyl - l - isoaspartyl cyclopeptide .
a protein modification that crosslinks two cysteine residues by formation of a chain of two or more bonded sulfur atoms .
a protein modification that crosslinks two cysteine residues by formation of a chain of three or more bonded sulfur atoms .
a protein modification that crosslinks two or more amino acid residues by forming an adduct with a compound containing a flavin group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to one of several monohydroxylated tryptophan residues ,  including 3 - hydroxy - l - tryptophan and 7' - hydroxy - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to a c - terminal 1 - thioglycine .
a protein modification that crosslinks an asparagine and the following glycine residue with the formation of  ( 2 - aminosuccinimidyl ) acetic acid and the release of ammonia .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to 1 - thioglycine .
a protein modification that forms l - cystine by forming a disulfide bond that either cross - links two peptidyl l - cysteine residues ,  or modifies a peptidyl cysteine with a free cysteine .
a protein modification that forms l - cysteinyl - l - selenocysteine either by the natural process of cross - linking an l - cysteine residue and an l - selenocysteine residue ,  or by the hypothetical process of substituting a selenium for a sulfur atom in cystine .
a protein modification that forms  ( 2 - aminosuccinimidyl ) acetic acid by crosslinking either an aspartic acid residue or an asparagine residue with the following glycine residue .
a protein modification that forms cyclo [  ( prolylserin )  - o - yl ]  cysteinate by the natural process of cross - linking an l - cysteine residue an l - proline residue ,  and an l - serine residue ,  or by effectively modifying a cysteine residue .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks either an  l - glutamine residue or an l - glutamic acid residue with an l - lysine residue by an isopeptide bond to form  n6 -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - lysine  .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - aspartic acid .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - glutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - glutamine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces a glycine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - isoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - leucine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - phenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively removes or replaces an l - valine .
a protein modification that effectively removes a natural ,  standard ,  encoded residue .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with a sulfonyl halide compound used as a reagent .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with 5 - dimethylaminonaphthalene - 1 - sulfonyl chloride ,  dansyl chloride .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction with 5 - dimethylaminonaphthalene - 1 - sulfonyl chloride ,  dansyl chloride ,  to form n6 - dansyl - lysine .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction with 5 - dimethylaminonaphthalene - 1 - sulfonyl chloride ,  dansyl chloride ,  to form an alpha - amino - dansyl - derivatized residue .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with 4 -  ( 4 - dimethylaminophenylazo ) benzenesulfonyl chloride ,  dabsyl chloride .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction with 4 -  ( 4 - dimethylaminophenylazo ) benzenesulfonyl chloride ,  dabsyl chloride ,  to form n6 - dabsyl - lysine .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction with 4 -  ( 4 - dimethylaminophenylazo ) benzenesulfonyl chloride ,  dabsyl chloride ,  to form an alpha - amino - dabsyl - derivatized residue .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with 1 - amino - 4 - { [ 3 -  ( ethenylsulfonyl ) phenyl ] amino} - 9 , 10 - dioxo - 9 , 10 - dihydroanthracene - 2 - sulfonate ,  uniblue a .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction with 1 - amino - 4 - { [ 3 -  ( ethenylsulfonyl ) phenyl ] amino} - 9 , 10 - dioxo - 9 , 10 - dihydroanthracene - 2 - sulfonate ,  uniblue a ,  to form uniblue a cysteine adduct .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to pyruvic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to n5 -  ( adp - ribosyl )  - l - glutamine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o -  ( adp - ribosyl )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to a 7' - hydroxy - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an n - terminal l - valine residue and a strand of dna at the c - 1 of a ribose ,  freeing the nucleotide base and forming n -  ( dna - 1' , 2' - dideoxyribos - 1' - ylidene )  - l - valine .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with epicocconone .
a protein modification that is produced by formation of an adduct with epicocconone .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to o4 -  ( 8alpha - fad )  - l - aspartate .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to n ( omega )  , n ( omega )  , n' ( omega )  - trimethyl - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - methyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o -  ( l - isoaspartyl )  - l - threonine ,  using free l - asparagine and releasing ammonia .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a hydrogen atom of an l - lysine residue with a halogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an n - acetylaminohexose group through a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n4 -  ( n - acetaminohexosyl )  - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o3 -  ( n - acetylaminohexosyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o3 -  ( n - acetylaminohexosyl )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to o4 -  ( n - acetylamino ) hexosyl - l - hydroxyproline .
a protein modification that effectively coverts l - lysine to n6 - carbamoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha amino or imino hydrogen with a carbamoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one residue alpha amino or imino hydrogen with one methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom of an l - aspartic acid residue with one methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom of an l - cysteine residue with one methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom of an l - lysine residue with one methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to a palmitoylated - l - cysteine ,  such as n - palmitoyl - l - cysteine or s - palmitoyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino group with a alpha - palmitoylamino group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces two alpha amino hydrogen atoms with two methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an alpha - aminium group with a trimethylaminium group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to one of the diastereomeric 3 - hydroxy - l - asparagine residues .
a protein modification that effectively converts a carboxyl - terminal residue to an alpha - carboxyl  ( 1 - carboxyl )  methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to n -  [  ( 12r )  - 12 - hydroxymyristoyl ]  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to n -  ( 12 - ketomyristoyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to l - glutamyl semialdehyde .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha amino or imino hydrogen with a  ( pyrid - 3 - yl ) acetyl group .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct between an l - cysteine residue and the bioluminescent compound didehydrocoelenterazine to form s -  ( coelenterazin - 3a - yl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with an 3 -  ( carboxamidomethylthio ) propanoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with an acyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with an 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) benzenesulfonyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an amino group with a trimethylaminium group .
a protein modification that effectively adds a hydrogen cation ,  a proton ,  forming a cationic residue .
a protein modification that effectively adds a proton to a residue alpha - amnino or alpha - imino group forming an alpha - aminium or alpha - iminium group ,  respectively .
a protein modification that effectively removes a hydrogen cation ,  a proton ,  forming an anionic residue .
a protein modification that effectively removes a proton from a residue 1 - carboxyl group  ( referred to as the alpha - carboxyl )  ,  forming a carboxylate anion .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to dehydrobutyrine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to dehydrobutyrine ,  by neutral loss of methyl sulfide .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydrogen with an isotope tagged reagent acyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with an isotope tagged reagent acyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl group with an isotope tagged reagent acyloxy group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with an isotope tagged reagent acyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino -  or imino - hydrogen with one of the applied biosystems itraq4plex reagent reporter + balance groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino -  or imino - hydrogen with one of the applied biosystems itraq8plex reagent reporter + balance groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with one of the applied biosystems itraq4plex reagent reporter + balance groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with one of the applied biosystems itraq8plex reagent reporter + balance groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl with one of the applied biosystems itraq4plex reagent reporter + balance acyloxy groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl with one of the applied biosystems itraq8plex reagent reporter + balance acyloxy groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with a proteome sciences tmt6plex reporter + balance group .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an proteome sciences tmt6plex - 126 reagent acylated residue .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino -  or imino - hydrogen with a proteome sciences tmt6plex reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a proteome sciences tmt6plex reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl with one of the proteome sciences tmt6plex reagent reporter + balance acyloxy groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 126 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 126 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 126 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 126 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 126 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 126 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 126 reporter + balance group .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an proteome sciences tmt6plex - 126 reagent acylated residue .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 127 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 127 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 127 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 127 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 127 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 127 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 127 reporter + balance group .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an proteome sciences tmt6plex - 127 reagent acylated residue .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 128 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 128 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 128 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 128 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 128 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 128 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 128 reporter + balance group .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an proteome sciences tmt6plex - 128 reagent acylated residue .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 129 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 129 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 129 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 129 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 129 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 129 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 129 reporter + balance group .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an proteome sciences tmt6plex - 129 reagent acylated residue .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 130 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 130 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 130 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 130 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 130 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 130 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 130 reporter + balance group .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an proteome sciences tmt6plex - 130 reagent acylated residue .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 131 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 131 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6' - hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 131 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 131 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n' - hydrogen atom of a histidine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 131 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a serine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 131 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydrogen atom of a threonine residue with the proteome sciences tmt6plex - 131 reporter + balance group .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an proteome sciences tmt6plex - 131 reagent acylated residue .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue hydroxyl group with a palmitoleyloxy group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - palmitoleyl - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o - palmitoyl - l - threonine amide .
the farnesyl cation protein modification reporter fragment produced by fragmentation of some farnesyl modified residues .
the palmityl cation protein modification reporter fragment produced by fragmentation of some palmitoyl modified residues .
covalent modification of a trimethyllysine residue with secondary loss of a neutral trimethylamine molecular fragment .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - octanoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to 5 - glutamyl serotonin .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - methylthiocarbonylaminoethylcysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a c - terminal glycine residue to s -  ( glycyl )  - l - cysteine by forming a thioester bond with a free l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a c - terminal glycine residue to n -  ( glycyl )  - l - cysteine by forming a peptide bond with a free l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 -  ( l - lysyl )  - l - lysine by formation of an isopeptide bond between the carboxyl group of a free lysine and the n6 - amino group of the peptidyl l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 -  ( beta - lysyl )  - l - 5 - hydroxylysine by formation of an isopeptide bond between the carboxyl group of a free beta - lysine and the n6 - amino group of a peptidyl l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - butanoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to n - methyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to n , n - dimethyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to n , n , n - trimethyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - threonine ,  using free l - glutamine and releasing ammonia .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to 3' - nitro - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two l - tyrosine residues through their 5' positions by amine nitrogen to form 5' -  ( l - tyros - 5' - yl ) amino - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an n - terminal l - histidine residue to histidine immonium ion .
a protein modification that effectively converts an n - terminal l - phenylalanine residue to phenylalanine immonium ion .
a protein modification that effectively converts an an n - terminal l - tyrosine residue to tyrosine immonium ion .
a protein modification that effectively converts an n - terminal phosphohistidine residue to phosphohistidine immonium ion .
a protein modification that effectively converts an n - terminal o4' - phospho - l - tyrosine residue to tyrosine immonium ion .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - carboxamidomethyl - l - cysteine sulfoxide .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the methyl group of a residue containing common isotopes with a 1x ( 13 ) c , 3x ( 2 ) h labeled monomethylated residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue containing common isotopes to 1x ( 13 ) c , 3x ( 2 ) h c ( 6 )  - labeled l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue containing common isotopes to 1x ( 13 ) c , 3x ( 2 ) h c ( 6 )  - labeled l - methionine sulfoxide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an n - terminal 1' - phosphohistidine residue to 1' - phosphohistidine immonium ion .
a protein modification that effectively converts an n - terminal 3' - phosphohistidine residue to 3' - phosphohistidine immonium ion .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to a methylated serine ,  such as n - methylserine ,  n , n - dimethylserine ,  or n , n , n - trimethylserine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an l - serine alpha amino hydrogen with a methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to an l - serinium  ( protonated l - serine )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serinium  ( protonated l - serine )  residue to an n , n , n - trimethyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to a methylated threonine ,  such as o - methyl - l - threonine or l - threonine methyl ester .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a glycosylphosphate through a phosphodiester bond .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - aspartic acid residue and a glycine residue by an isopeptide bond with formation of n -  ( l - isoaspartyl )  - glycine and the release of water .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - leucine residue to n , n - dimethyl - l - leucine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to n - formyl - l - glutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an l - leucine alpha amino hydrogen with a methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts a residue containing common isotopes to a 5x ( 13 ) c , 1x ( 15 ) n labeled residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to 5x ( 13 ) c , 1x ( 15 ) n labeled l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to 5x ( 13 ) c , 1x ( 15 ) n labeled l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to 5x ( 13 ) c , 1x ( 15 ) n labeled l - methionine sulfoxide .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a morpholine - 2 - acetyl group for a hydrogen atom .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links a cysteine and two serine residues to form l - cysteine 3 - hydroxy - 2 , 5 - pyridinedicarboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - glutamic acid residue to form l - glutamate thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to a 2' - hydroxy - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to a 2' - oxo - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two tryptophan residues to form 1' -  ( l - tryptophan - 3' - yl )  - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - succinyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a cysteine sulhydryl hydrogen with an isotope tagged sulfhydryl reagent group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfhydryl hydrogen with a thermo scientific cystmt6plex reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfhydryl hydrogen with a thermo scientific cystmt6plex - zero reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfhydryl hydrogen with a thermo scientific cystmt6plex - 126 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfhydryl hydrogen with a thermo scientific cystmt6plex - 127 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfhydryl hydrogen with a thermo scientific cystmt6plex - 128 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfhydryl hydrogen with a thermo scientific cystmt6plex - 129 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfhydryl hydrogen with a thermo scientific cystmt6plex - 130 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfhydryl hydrogen with a thermo scientific cystmt6plex - 131 reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - carboxymethyl - l - cysteine sulfoxide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - carboxymethyl - l - cysteine sulfone .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - carboxamidomethyl - l - cysteine sulfone .
a protein modification that effectively converts a residue containing common isotopes to a 5x ( 13 ) c - labeled residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue containing common isotopes to 5x ( 13 ) c - labeled l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue containing common isotopes to 5x ( 13 ) c - labeled l - methionine sulfoxide .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue containing common isotopes to 5x ( 13 ) c - labeled l - methionine sulfone .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 -  [  (  [ 1 -  ( 6 - nitro - 2h - 1 , 3 - benzodioxol - 5 - yl ) ethoxy ] carbonyl ] lysine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two l - cysteine residues with a thioether bond to form l - lanthionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to l - lysinoalanine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links either two l - cysteine residues ,  or an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue by a thioether bond to form l - lanthionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to l - allo - isoleucine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links either two or an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue by a thioether bond to form a lanthionine ,  either d -  or l -  or meso - lanthionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts two l - cysteine residues to s -  ( 2 - aminovinyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to 5' - chloro - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue and an l - leucine residue to 2 -  ( 3 - methylbutanoyl )  - 5 - hydroxyoxazole - 4 - carbothionic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue and an l - proline residue to l - proline 5 - hydroxyoxazole - 4 - carbothionic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts two l - cysteine residues ,  and a copper atom to the methanobactin ob3b copper complex .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteine sulfinyl phosphate .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( spermidinoglutathion - s - yl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two l - cysteine residues by a thioether bond to form s -  ( 2 - aminovinyl )  - d - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links either two l - cysteine residues ,  or an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue by a thioether bond to form s -  ( 2 - aminovinyl )  - d - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links either two l - cysteine residues ,  or an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue by a thioether bond to form s -  ( 2 - aminovinyl )  - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - lysine residue to release hydrogen sulfide and form 2 - amino - 6 -  ( 2 - amino - 2 - carboxyethylamino ) hexanoic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to l - lysinoalanine either by forming a cross - link with peptidyl - cysteine or peptidyl - serine ,  or by condensation with free serine .
a protein modification that effectively adds one oxygen atom to a sulfur atom of a residue without removing hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that effectively adds two oxygen atoms to a sulfur atom of a residue without removing hydrogen atoms .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by rearrangement and condensation of a cysteine with the carbonyl of the preceding residue to form a 1 , 3 - oxazole - 4 - carbothionic acid .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - methionine residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( l - cystein - s - yl )  - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( n - acetylamino ) glucosyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - phenylalanine residue to form 4 - amino - 3 - isothiazolidinone - l - phenylalanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to l - cysteine bacillithiol disulfide .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by condensation of a cysteine thiol with the amido nitrogen of the following residue to form an isothiazolidinone ring .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the hydrogen atom of a cysteine sulfanyl group with a substituted sulfanyl group ,  forming a disulfide bond that does not cross - link two encoded peptide chains .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with one of the applied biosystems mtraq reagent reporter + balance groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with the applied biosystems mtraq light reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a protein n - terminal with the applied biosystems mtraq light reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the n6 - amino hydrogen atom of a lysine residue with the applied biosystems mtraq light reporter + balance group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces the o4' - hydrogen atom of a tyrosine residue with the applied biosystems mtraq light reporter + balance group .
modifications that have monoisotopic mass differences from their respective origins of 140 .094963 da .
the protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems mtraq light reagent derivatized residue .
a protein modification reporter fragment produced by an applied biosystems mtraq reagent derivatized residue .
a protein modification that effectively cyclizes an s - carboxamidomethyl - l - cysteine residue to  ( r )  - 5 - oxo - 1 , 4 - tetrahydrothiazine - 3 - carboxylic acid with the loss of ammonia .
a protein modification that effectively cyclizes an s - carboxymethyl - l - cysteine residue to  ( r )  - 5 - oxo - 1 , 4 - tetrahydrothiazine - 3 - carboxylic acid with the loss of water .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to n - carboxy - l - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to n - carboxy - l - valine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an n6 - amino hydrogen atom of l - lysine with an acyl group .
obsolete because identical to mod:00457
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue and an l - arginine residue to 2 -  ( 4 - guanidinobutanoyl )  - 5 - hydroxyimidazole - 4 - carbothionic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue and an l - threonine residue to l - threonine 5 - hydroxyoxazole - 4 - carbothionic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts two l - cysteine residues ,  an l - arginine residue ,  an l - threonine residue and a copper atom to the methanobactin sb2 copper complex .
modification from resid
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - phenylalanine residue and an l - valine residue by a free radical process effectively releasing a hydrogen molecule and forming 3 -  ( l - phenylalan - 2' - yl )  - l - valine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks the carbonyl of an amino acid residue at position n with the alpha amino of a glycine residue at position n + 2 to form a 5 - imidazolinone ring .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by rearrangement and condensation of a cysteine with the carbonyl of the preceding residue to form a 5 - imidazolinone ring .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a 4 - aminobutyl group ,  usually derived from spermidine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a biotinyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an sulfanyl or substituted sulfanyl group .
a protein modification that is produced by reaction with 1 - amino - 4 - { [ 3 -  ( ethenylsulfonyl ) phenyl ] amino} - 9 , 10 - dioxo - 9 , 10 - dihydroanthracene - 2 - sulfonate ,  uniblue a ,  to form uniblue a lysine adduct .
a protein modification that effectively removes two neutral hydrogen atoms  ( proton and electron )  from a residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( 2 - succinyl )  - l - cysteine ,  by addition of either fumaric acid or maleic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an n - formyl - l - methionine residue and an l - histidine residue to form n -  [  ( l - histidin - 1' - yl ) methyl ]  - l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - methionine residue and an l - histidine residue to form n -  [  ( l - histidin - 1' - yl ) methyl ]  - l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - crotonyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - malonyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an propanoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a 3x ( 12 ) c - labeled propanoyl group .
a protein modification produced by trifluoroacetic acid forming an adduct ,  either a salt or a hydrogen bonded carboxylic acid dimer ,  with an amino acid residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - isoleucine residue to 5 - hydroxy - 3 - methyl - l - proline .
modification from resid
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - arginine residue and an l - cysteine residue to form arginine thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - cysteine residue and an l - threonine residue to form l - cysteine 5 - methyloxazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks two l - threonine residues to form l - threonine 5 - methyloxazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - isoleucine residue and an l - serine residue to form l - cysteine oxazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks two l - serine residues to form serine oxazole - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - serine residue and an l - threonine residue to form l - serine 5 - methyloxazoline - 4 - carboxylic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to 5 - hydroxy - 3 - methyl - l - proline .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to dehydromethionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methioninium  ( protonated l - methionine )  residue to dehydromethionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a residue to the 4 - sulfophenyl isothiocyanate adduct ,  alpha - amino -  [  ( 4 - sulfophenyl ) carbamothioyl ]  residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts a residue to the 6x ( 13 ) c labeled 4 - sulfophenyl isothiocyanate adduct ,  alpha - amino -  [  ( 4 - sulfophenyl ) carbamothioyl ]  residue .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one hydrogen atom of a residue with one fluorine atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one hydrogen atom of a residue with one chlorine atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one hydrogen atom of a residue with one bromine atom .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes one hydrogen atom of an l - tryptophan residue with one chlorine atom .
a protein modification that effectively converts a 5 - hydroxy - l - lysine residue to o5 - galactosyl - l - hydroxylysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - alanine residue to n - formyl - l - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to o4' -  ( n - acetylamino ) galactosyl - l - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - aspartic acid residue and an l - lysine residue by an isopeptide bond with the formation of n6 -  ( l - isoaspartyl )  - l - lysine and the release of water .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to  ( 2s , 5s )  - 5 - hydroxylysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to  ( 2s , 3s )  - 3 - hydroxyaspartic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - histidine residue to 3 - hydroxy - l - histidine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to d - aspartic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to 3 - methoxydehydroalanine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - aspartic acid residue and an l - lysine residue by an isopeptide bond to form n6 -  ( l - aspartyl )  - l - lysine and the release of water .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s - octanoyl - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to  ( 2s , 5r )  - 5 - hydroxylysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - aspartic acid residue to one of the diastereomeric 3 - hydroxy - l - aspartic acid residues .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tyrosine residue to o4' - glycosyltyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks either an l - asparagine residue or an l - aspartic acid residue with a glycine residue by an isopeptide bond with formation of n -  ( l - isoaspartyl ) glycine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an either an l - asparagine residue or an l - aspartic acid residue with an l - lysine residue by an isopeptide bond with the formation of n6 -  ( l - isoaspartyl )  - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to d - aspartic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - phospho - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links two lysine residues with a carbon - nitrogen bond to form l - lysinonorleucine . .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links four l - lysine residues to form isodesmosine .
modification from resid
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - oleoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to n - palmitoyl - l - methionine .
a protein modification that crosslinks an asparagine and the following cysteine residue with the formation of  ( 2 - aminosuccinimidyl )  - 3 - sulfanylpropanoic acid and the release of ammonia .
a protein modification that crosslinks an aspartic acid and the following cysteine residue with the formation of  ( 2 - aminosuccinimidyl )  - 3 - sulfanylpropanoic acid and the loss of a water molecule .
a protein modification that crosslinks an asparagine and the following glutamic acid residue with the formation of  ( 2 - aminosuccinimidyl ) pentanedioic acid and the release of ammonia .
a protein modification that crosslinks an aspartic acid and the following glycine residue with the formation of  ( 2 - aminosuccinimidyl ) pentanedioic acid and the loss of a water molecule .
a protein modification that effectively converts a source amino acid residue to d - aspartic acid .
a protein modification that crosslinks two adjacent residues by formation of a pyrrolidione ring .
a protein modification that forms  ( 2 - aminosuccinimidyl ) acetic acid by crosslinking either an aspartic acid residue or an asparagine residue with the following residue .
a protein modification that forms  ( 2 - aminosuccinimidyl )  - 3 - sulfanylpropanoic acid by crosslinking either an aspartic acid residue or an asparagine residue with the following cysteine residue .
a protein modification that forms  ( 2 - aminosuccinimidyl ) pentanedioicacid by crosslinking either an aspartic acid residue or an asparagine residue with the following glutamic acid \ n residue .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - threonine residue and an l - aspartic acid residue with an ester bond to form  o -  ( l - isoaspartyl )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and two l - serine residues by a thioether bond and a carbon - carbon bond to form labionin .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links a phenylalanine and two tyrosine residues to form coelenterazine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamine residue to l - isoglutamyl histamine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - glutamine residue and an l - serine residue by an ester bond and releasing ammonia to form o -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - threonine residue and an l - glutamine residue with an ester bond releasing ammonia to form o -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively converts four l - cysteine residues and a four - iron cluster to tetrakis - l - cysteinyl tetrairon octanitrosyl .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - selenocysteine residue to dehydroalanine .
modification from resid
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to  ( 3r )  - 3 - hydroxy - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - proline residue to 2 - hydroxyproline .
a protein modification that effectively converts four l - cysteine residues and a two - iron two - sulfur cluster to bis - l - cysteinyl bisglutathion - s - yl diiron disulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts three l - cysteine residues ,  an l - glutamic acid and a four - iron four - sulfur cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - glutamato tetrairon tetrasulfide .
a protein modification that effectively converts three l - cysteine residues ,  an l - glutamine residue and a four - iron four - sulfur cluster to tris - l - cysteinyl l - glutamin - o6 - yl tetrairon tetrasulfide .
obsolete because redundant and identical to mod:01785 .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - asparagine residue to n4 -  ( 2 , 4 - diacetamido - 2 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - d - glucosyl )  - l - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  ( 2 , 4 - diacetamido - 2 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - d - glucosyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o -  ( 2 - acetamido - 4 - glyceramido - 2 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - d - glucosyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to 2xc ( 13 )  , 3x ( 2 ) h labeled n6 - acetyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to  omega - n -  ( n - acetylamino ) glucosyl - l - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - threonine residue by a thioether bond to form  ( 2r , 3r , 2'r )  - 3 - methyllanthionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( gamma - glutamyl - cysteinyl - glycyl )  - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to 5 - glutamyl glutamic acid ,  forming an isopeptide bond with a free glutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to n2 - ornithine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - glutamic acid residue to 5 - glutamyl coenzyme a thioester .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 -  ( 3 - phosphoglyceryl )  - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - methionine residue to s - methyl - l - methionine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to s -  ( poly - 3 - hydroxybutyrate )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to o3 -  ( poly - 3 - hydroxybutyrate )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks either an l - glutamine residue or an l - glutamic acid residue with an l - serine residue by an ester bond  to form o -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o -  ( l - isoaspartyl )  - l - threonine ,  using either free l - asparagine and releasing ammonia or using a peptidyl l - aspartic acid residue and releasing water .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - threonine residue to o -  ( l - isoglutamyl )  - l - threonine ,  using free l - glutamine and releasing ammonia ,  or using a peptidyl l - glutamine and releasing ammonia .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - arginine residue to n4 - glycosyl - arginine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - threonine residue by a thioether bond to form 3 - methyllanthionine with unresolved stereospecificity .
modification from resid
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to n , n - dimethyllglycine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - alanine residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - l - alanine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - asparagine residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - d - asparagine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - serine residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - d - serine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - threonine residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteine residue and an l - tyrosine residue by a thioether bond to form 2 -  ( s - l - cysteinyl )  - d - tyrosine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycine residue to a glycinium  ( protonated glycine )  .
a protein modification that effectively converts a glycinium  ( protonated glycine )  residue to an n , n , n - trimethylglycine .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by formation of a thioether bond between a cysteine thiol and the alpha - carbon of another amino acid residue .
a protein modification that crosslinks two residues by formation of a thioether bond between a cysteine thiol and the beta - carbon of another amino acid residue .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to n1' - formyl - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - tryptophan residue to n2 - formyl - l - tryptophan .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an butanoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino or imino hydrogen with a butanoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a butanoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - retinylidene -  ( 11 - cis )  - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - retinylidene - l - lysine  ( unspecified geometric isomer )  .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a stearoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfanyl group with a palmitoleylsulfanyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydroxy hydrogen atom of l - serine with an acyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an o3 - hydroxy hydrogen atom of l - threonine with an acyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces an sulfanyl hydrogen atom of l - cysteine with an acyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue sulfanyl group with a stearoylsulfanyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - palmitoleyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino group with a palmitoleylamino group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - stearoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino group with a stearoylamino group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino group with a oleoylamino group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a oleoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - linoloyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino group with a linoloylamino group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a linoloyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - arachidonoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino group with an arachidonoylamino group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an arachidonoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - timnodonoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino group with a timnodonoylamino group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a timnodonoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - cervonoyl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue amino group with a cervonoylamino group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with a cervonoyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts the alpha amino group of a glutamine residue to glutaminyl glutamic acid by forming an isopeptide bond with the side chain carboxyl group of a free glutamic acid .
a protein modification that effectively cross - links an l - cysteinyl - l - glycine dipeptide and an l - cysteine residue by a disulfide bond to form s -  ( cysteinyl - glycyl )  - l - cysteine .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks the n6 - amino of a peptidyl lysine with the carboxyl - terminal glycine of a urm1 protein .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom of a residue with one of the applied biosystems itraq4plex reagent reporter + balance groups .
a protein modification that effectively specifies the boundary conformation of two adjacent source amino acid residues ,  the second  ( c - term side )  being a l - proline ,  where the carbonyl group of the amide bond of the n - side of the l - proline is positioned such that the organodiyl group is in the cis orientation  ( omega=0 ) 
a protein modification that effectively specifies the boundary conformation of two adjacent source amino acid residues ,  the second  ( c - term side )  being a l - proline ,  where the carbonyl group of the amide bond of the n - side of the l - proline is positioned such that the organodiyl group is in the trans orientation  ( omega=180 ) 
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  dhex hex ( 4 )  hexnac ( 5 ) 
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  dhex ( 2 )  hex ( 4 )  hexnac ( 5 ) 
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  dhex hex ( 5 )  hexnac ( 3 ) 
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  dhex hex ( 3 )  hexnac ( 6 ) 
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  dhex hex ( 6 )  hexnac ( 3 ) 
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  hex ( 9 ) hexnac ( 2 ) 
modification from unimod n - linked glycosylation ,  hex ( 7 )  hexnac ( 2 ) 
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom of an l - histidine residue with one methyl group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen group with a amino group
a protein modification that contains an l - alanine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - arginine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - asparagine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - aspartic acid residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - cysteine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - glutamic acid residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - glutamine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains a glycine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - histidine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - isoleucine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - leucine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - lysine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - methionine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - phenylalanine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - proline residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - serine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - threonine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - tryptophan residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - tyrosine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - valine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an d - asparagine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - selenocysteine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an n - formyl - l - methionine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an d - phenylalanine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an d - serine residue crosslinked to one or more amino acid residues .
a protein modification that contains an l - alanine residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that contains an l - aspartic acid residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that contains an l - cysteine residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that contains an l - glutamic acid residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that contains an l - glutamine residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that contains an l - histidine residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that contains an l - methionine residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that contains an l - serine residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that contains an l - selenocysteine residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that contains an l - lysine residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that contains an l - tyrosine residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that contains an l - arginine residue coordinated to one or more metal atoms or metal clusters .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a hydrogen atom with an nitrosyl  ( no )  group .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one or more hydrogen atoms with one or more acetyl groups .
a protein modification that effectively replaces one hydrogen atom with one acetyl group .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - serine residue to either n - acetyl - l - serine ,  o - acetyl - l - serine ,  or n , o - diacetyl - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a residue alpha - amino -  or alpha - imino - hydrogen with a succinyl group .
a protein modification that effectively removes two neutral hydrogen atoms  ( proton and electron )  and a water moiety from a residue .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a riboflavin phosphate  ( flavin mononucleotide ,  fmn )  group through the 4 - alpha position of fmn .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a riboflavin phosphate  ( flavin mononucleotide ,  fmn )  group through the 6 position of fmn .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with a compound containing a riboflavin phosphate  ( flavin mononucleotide ,  fmn )  group through the 8 - alpha position of fmn .
a protein modification that effectively substitutes a hydrogen atom of an l - phenylalanine residue with a bromine atom .
a protein modification that effectively results from forming an adduct with one or more adp - ribose moieties or to modified residues through formation of a glycosidic bond .
a protein modification that effectively replaces a natural ,  standard ,  encoded residue .
a protein modification that effectively crosslinks an l - serine residue and 5' - phosphouridine through a phosphodiester bond to form o -  ( phospho - 5' - uridine )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively modifies an l - threonine residue with 5' - phosphouridine through a phosphodiester bond to form o -  ( phospho - 5' - uridine )  - l - threonine .
a protein modification that effectively modifies an l - serine residue with 5' - phosphoadenosine through a phosphodiester bond to form o -  ( phospho - 5' - adenosine )  - l - serine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - cysteine residue to form s - methylbutanedioic acid - l - cysteine by alkylation with itaconate through a thioether bond .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 -  ( 2 - hydroxyisobutanoyl )  - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 -  (  ( 3r )  - 3 - hydroxybutanoyl )  - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts an l - lysine residue to n6 - glutaryl - l - lysine .
a protein modification that effectively converts a d - asparagine residue to n4 - methyl - d - asparagine .
'entity a' part_of 'entity b' implies that 'entity a' is a part of the structure of 'entity b' .
