a planned process in which soil is mechanicaly mixed ,  stirred or overturned .
a planned process in which the agricultural field surface is shaped for ensuring that the depths and discharge variations over the agricultural field are relatively uniform .
a planned process in which the thickness of crop residue on the surface of an agricultural field is managed .
a planned process in which water is artificially supplied to plant or soil to sustain plants .
a pruning process in which one or more suckers are removed .
a role that inheres in a water body that is realised in an irrigation process where water is transported from that water body to the target of the irrigation process .
a water body from which water is taken during an irrigation process and transported to the target of the irrigation process .
quantity of water applied per irrigation operation .
a tillage process in which ,  approximately ,  less than 15 percent of the soil surface is covered by crop residue after planting .
a tillage process in which between ,  approximately ,  15 to 30 percent of the soil surface is covered by plant residue after planting .
a tillage process in which a proportion of plant residue ,  left over after a harvesting process ,  is left relatively undisturbed on the tilled land ;  this is done in order to accomplish several conservation objectives including the maintenance of soil moisture content ,  the reduction of soil erosion and soil compaction ,  and / or the reduction of labour intensity and fuel consumption .
a land levelling process in which a laser guided equipement is used to shape land surface .
a pest control process in which physical means such as barriers ,  traps and handpicking ,  or physical conditions like high temperature ,  are used to control unwanted organisms .
a pest control process in which organisms are employed to manage unwanted organisms .
a planned process in which unwanted organisms are controlled .
a pest control process in which chemical is used to manage unwanted organisms .
a planned process in which the useful part or parts of the plant are gathered .
a planned process in which the soil is left undisturbed apart from where the seeds or planting material are placed .
a planned process in which selected parts of the plant are removed .
a tillage process in which saturated or near - saturated soil are worked into soft structureless mud ,  mainly for paddy rice production .
a conservation tillage process in which non - inversion tillage tools that partially incorporate surface organic material are used on the entire surface of the field .
a conservation tillage process in which ,  in a land with permanent ridges ,  previous crop's residue is cleared off ridge - tops into adjacent furrows to make way for the new crop being planted on ridges .
a conservation tillage process in which narrow strips are tilled where seeds will be planted ,  leaving the soil in between the rows untilled .
a plant anatomical entity that is defined to mean plants or parts of plant capable of and intended for producing or reproducing entire plants .
a fertilizer that is derived from animal or vegetable matter ,  and contains a carbon - hydrogen linkage .
a role that inheres in an organism that is realized in an agricultural process where the organism is unwanted .
a plan specification which describes how a material entity is applied to another material entity .
an application method in which a liquid material entity is applied by aircraft to an area .
an application method in which a material entity is applied in bands below ,  above ,  on one side ,  or on both sides of seeds or seedlings at planting .
a band application in which the material entity is applied after seeding or planting .
an application method which specifies how a material entity is to be uniformly applied to an area .
a broadcast application in which fertilizer is applied to an area before planting or before seedling emergence .
a broadcast application in which a material entity is applied to an area after seedling emergence and establishment of plants .
an application method in which a chemical entity is applied to the lower portions of plant stems or tree trunks just above the soil line .
an application method in which a water - soluble chemical is injected into water flowing through an irrigation system .
an application method in which a material entity is applied at the time of sowing ,  and placed in contact with seeds .
an application method in which the material entity is placed in the reduced soil layer .
an application method in which a water - soluble fertilizer is injected into water flowing through an irrigation system .
an application method in which a liquid material entity is sprayed to the leafy portions of a plant .
an application method in which the material entity is placed in a continuous band on the bottom of the furrow during the process of ploughing .
an application method in which a liquid material entity is conveyed from a reservoir to a rope or wick that is wiped into unwanted plants .
an application method in which a material entity is appplied directly on seeds before seeding .
an application method in which a material entity is injected under pressure beneath the soil surface .
an application method in which a material entity is injected under the bark of trees .
a plan specification which describes how water is applied to plants or soil .
an irrigation process in which water is distributed under low pressure through a piped network ,  and is applied as a small discharge to each plant or adjacent to it .
a localized irrigation process in which water is conveyed under pressure through a pipe system where it drips slowly onto the soil close to the plants .
a localized irrigation process in which water is distributed by diffusion and capillary action through the wall of buried unglazed clay pot .
a localized irrigation process in which water is conveyed under pressure through a buried pipe system where it drips slowly below the soil surface close to plants' roots .
an irrigation process in which water is distributed through a system of pipes ,  and is sprayed into the air through sprinklers so that it breaks up into small water drops which fall to the ground .
a sprinkler irrigation process in which water is dispersed through a long ,  segmented arm that revolves around a pivot point and covers a circular area .
an irrigation process in which water is delivered to the plant root zone from below the soil surface .
an irrigation process in which water is applied and distributed over the soil surface by gravity .
a surface irrigation process in which water is applied into basins .
a bassin irrigation process in which basins are flooded during the entire growing season of plants .
a surface irrigation process in which water is distributed to an area divided into borders .
a surface irrigation process in which water is carried into small channels called furrows down the land slope between the plant rows .
a surface irrigation process in which water is spread over a flat area without control over water flow or prior preparation .
a role that inheres in an organism that is realised in a pest control process where that organism is used to suppress unwanted organisms .
a role that inheres in an environmental material that is realised in a land preparation process where that environmental material is applied to soil in order to neutralize soil acidity .
plants that are grown to be tilled ,  or cut down to lay on top of the ground for the purpose of adding organic matter and nutrients to the soil .
animal manure that contains plant material ,  which has been used as bedding for animals and has absorbed the feces and urine .
an animal manure made of animal feces and urine with no or very little material used for animal bedding .
an animal manure made of animal urine and sometimes waste water .
organic matter mostly derived from animal feces which can be used as organic fertilizer in agriculture .
an animal manure that contains poultry excreta ,  spilled feed ,  feathers ,  and material used as bedding in poultry operations .
an animal manure that contains solid waste from fishes often originateing from aquaculture operations .
an animal manure that is produced from ground - up whole fish or by - products mixed with water ,  and heated to remove oils and proteins .
an animal manure obtained by drying and grinding or otherwise treating fish or fish waste to which no other matter has been added .
an animal manure made from whole fish or by - products put into water and cold - ground up .
the biomass remaining after pressing oil seeds to extract oil .
dry ,  inert powder made from blood .
the biomass remaining after sugarcane stalks are crushed to extract their juice .
an agricultural environmental material that contains ground - biomass remaining after pressing oil seeds .
an oil meal that contains crushed cotton seeds from which oil has been removed .
an agricultural environmental material that contains ground dry alfalfa .
a compost that contains the residual compost waste generated by mushroom production .
layer of material applied to the soil surface to conserve moisture ,  improve soil fertility ,  reduce weed growth ,  or enhance the visual appeal of the area .
a mulch where plastic sheet is used to cover soil surface .
a mulch where textile material is used to covert the soil surface .
a mulch where shredded or entire piece of paper or newspaper cover the soil surface .
a mulch where lawn waste resulting from mowing are used to cover the soil surface .
a mulch where pine needles are used to cover soil surface .
a mulch where straw is used to cover soil surface .
a mulch where foil is used to cover soil surface .
a mulch where stones are used to cover soil surface .
a mulch where tree leaves are used to cover soil surface .
a mulch where compost is used to cover soil surface .
a mulch where wood chips are used to cover soil surface .
a mulch where the outer corky bark layer of timber trees ,  shredded or not ,  are used to cover soil surface .
a biological pest control process in which organisms that will help to manage pests are introduced to a new locale where they do not occur naturally .
a biological pest control process in which organisms that help to manage pests are released to boost the naturally occurring population .
a biological pest control process in which suitable habitat or food are provided to the naturally occurring population of organisms that help to manage pests .
a mechanical pest control process in which pests are killed .
a mechanical pest control process in which pests are kept away .
a planned process in which a layer of material is apply to the soil surface to conserve moisture ,  improve soil fertility ,  reduce pests population and enhance the visual appeal of the area .
a planned process in which a liming material is applied to soil to reduce acidity .
seed soaked in water until the physical process of germination ,  the penetration of the root though the seed coat ,  has occurred .
piece of a plant ,  often piece of the stem or root ,  that is used for vegetative propagation .
a shoot of a perennial plant .
organism used to pull agricultural implements .
a mobile machine specifically designed to deliver a high tractive effort at slow speeds ,  and mainly used for the purposes of hauling a trailer or machinery used in agriculture or construction .
a tractor with one axle ,  self - powered and self - propelled .
a tractor with two axles .
a roller armed with blunt spikes for dragging over newly plowed land to break the clods and render it fit for seeding .
an implement that consists of many carbon steel or boron discs ,  which have many varying concavities and disc blade sizes and spacing and which are arranged into two or four sections .
an implement that cut ,  lift and reverse soil with a cutting depth of approximately 15 cm .
an implement that typically has only one thin blade with a sharpened tip ,  and is used to loosen and break up soil at depths about 30 cm .
an implement that loosen and aerate soil without inverting or turning it .
an implement that is used for plants ,  such as potatoes or scallions ,  which are grown buried in ridges of soil .
an implement that is designed to cut the soil and turn it on its side ,  minimizing the damage to the earthworms ,  soil microorganism ,  and fungi .
board used in field with a total water coverage to shape field surface .
bucket dragged by animal or tractor to shape soil surface .
a bucket tracted by a tractor and controlled by a laser to shape soil surface .
an implement consisting of a heavy framework having high numbers of steel tines on an harrow mat .
an implement consisting of a heavy framework having several spikes or tines ,  and dragged by an animal or a tractor .
an implement used to distribute manure over a field .
an implement designed to inject slurry into the soil .
an implement that consists of a hopper ,  a metering unit ,  and a distribution device that uses centrifugal force to spread material like seeds ,  fertilizer granules ,  liming material ,  onto the soil surface .
a planned process in which seeds are applied on or into the soil .
an implement that is used to spray liquid and that is fitted with a harness on the operator back .
an implement that is used to spray liquid and is help in the hand .
an implement that uses a combination of air and liquid to deliver liquid material to the target .
an implement which is used to create well - defined grooves in the soil where some material like seeds or fertilizer can be placed at a proper depth .
an area density quality which inheres in liming material by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of liming material applied on a given surface area .
two or more crop plants planted in a line .
a site which is located between two rows of crop plants .
an area density quality which inheres in nitrogen by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of nitrogen applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in phosphorus by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of phosphorus applied in a given surface area .
object with a tube shape used to carry irrigation water through the field
an area density quality which inheres in sulfur by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of sulfur applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in chemical pest control material by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of chemical pest control material applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in nitrate by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of nitrate applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in ammonium by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of ammonium applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in calcium by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of calcium applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in magnesium by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of magnesium applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in iron by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of iron applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in zinc by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of zinc applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in copper by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of copper applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in boron by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of boron applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in molybdenum by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of molybdenum applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in manganese by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of manganese applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in chlorine by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of chlorine applied in a given surface area .
a length quality which is equal to the length of the tillage tool that penetrate into the soil .
the thickness of a mulch
the color of a mulch
small earth embankment which contain irrigation water within basins .
an environmental material containing calcium and / or magnesium compounds  and applied to soil in order to neutralize soil acidity .
form of overhead sprinkler irrigation consisting of several segments of pipe joined together and supported by trusses ,  mounted on wheeled towers with sprinklers positioned along its length .
hydrological process in which water move through soil and permeable rocks .
an area density quality which inheres in fertilizer by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of fertilizer applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in potassium by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of potassium applied in a given surface area .
the area density of a seed
a pest control process in wich extremely hot temperature are used to kill pest .
an area density quality which inheres in plant reproductive material by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of plant reproductive material planted in a given surface area .
a pest control process in which extremely cold temperature are used to kill pest .
a mechanical pest control process in which the area being treated against pest is saturated with water at a depth of 15 to 30 cm for a period of 3 to 8 weeks .
a mulchin process in which the soil is covered with a layer of clear or black plastic .
a mechanical pest control process in which pest or area with pest are directly burned and flamed .
a mechanical pest control process in which steam is used to kill pest .
a mechanical pest process in which diatomaceous earth is used to kill pest .
a crop residue management process in which crop residues are burned in the field .
a crop residue management process in which crop residues are spread across the field .
a land levelling process which uses animal drawn or tractor - drawn levelers .
a mechanical pest removal process in which pests are physically caught .
a mechanical pest exclusion process in which barriers are used to prevent pest from getting into the area to be protected .
a pest removal process in which unwanted organisms are removed by hands .
a mechanical pest removal process in which a forceful stream of water is used to dislodge pests .
a mechanical pest removal process in which a field vacuum is used to suck insects from plants .
a cutting process in which the above ground of the plants are cut or shred .
an implement that is used during a tillage process .
an implement that is used during a land levelling process .
an implement that is used during a residue management process .
an implement that is used during a fertilization process .
an implement that is used during a transplanting process .
a planned process in which a plant is moved from one location to be planted in another one .
an implement that is used in a planting process .
a planned process in which a plant reproductive material is set into the soil .
an implement that is used during a sowing process .
an implement that is used during a chemical pest control process .
an implement that is used in an harvest process .
an implement that is used during a puddling process .
an implement that is used during a mulch process .
source of energy used to pulled an implement .
a traction that uses only human power to use an implement .
a traction that uses motorized power to pulled an implement .
a traction that uses animal power to pulled an implement .
an equipment that is used during an irrigation process .
protocol used to measure the area density of a material .
protocol in which the material is weighed with a scale .
protocol in which the volume of a material is mesured with a graduated container .
protocol in which the weight or the volume of the material is recorded from the packaging of the material .
with a ruler measure the distance between the soil surface and the top of the mulch layer .
with a ruler measure the distance between the center of two rows .
measure the length of sprout with a steel tape .
measure the shortest distance between the water source and the entrance of the field with a measuring wheel .
1 .weight a sample of the material .
measure the distance between the soil surface and the top of a bund .
measurement protocol in which the depth into the soil of an agricultural process is measured .
use of a penometer to measure the depth of the agricultural process .
measure the length of the implement that goes into the soil to realize the agricultural process to knoe the depth of the agricultural process .
record the concentration of the chemical element of interest in the fertilizer used indicated on the fertilizer container .
count the number of row that have been harvested .
count the number of plants using a quadrat .
count the number of plants in a defined area .
protocol that describes how to count the number of plants in a known area .
measure the distance between the beginning and the end of the row .
protocol in which the lignin concentration of an environmental material is measured .
measure the lignin concentration following the acetylbromide method .
measure the lignin concentration following the acid detergent fiber method
measure the lignin concentration with the thioglycolic acid method .
measure the lignin concentration with the klason method .
measure the lignin concentration with the permanganate method .
measure the lignin concentration with the acid detergent lignin method .
a determination of organic carbon protocol that uses chromic acid to measure the oxidizable organic carbon in an environmental material .
method for the quantitative determination of organic nitrogen in chemical substance .
protocol used to determine organic carbon content in environmental material according to the amount of co2 released during combustion of the material .
protocol used to determine the content of organic nitrogen in environmental material .
protocol used to determine the content of organic carbon in environmental material .
record the speed of the tractor in the field .
record the color of the mulch applied .
protocol in which the age of the transplant is determined by counting the number of days between the seeding date and the transplanting date .
measure the distance between the soil surface and the top of the irrigation equipment buried in soil .
tie a small but heavy weight to the end of a piece of string .
measure the lenght of the pivot .
record the number of pest control agent released per surface area .
record the quantity of water used for irrigation .
protocol in which the rapidity at which water moves through soil is measured .
protocol that describes how to measure a field area .
measure the field area in the field .
measure the field area using a map  ( paper or electronic format )  .
record the information giving by a person that knows the field area  ( farmer ,  field owner )  .
protocol that describes how to measure the percentage of soil coverage by environmental material like mulch or crop residue .
assess visually the percentage of soil covered by environmental material .
measure the percentage of soil covered by environmental material by counting the environmental material using quadrat ,  rope with knots or other devices .
use gis to measure the percentage of soil covered by environmental material .
add all the quantities of the environmental material of interest applied over a specified period .
protocol that describes how to measure the percentage of incorporation in soil of an environmental material .
assess visually the percentage of environmental material that has been buried into soil during the incorporation process .
use gis to measure the percentage of environmental material that has been buried into soil during the incorporation process .
measure the percentage of environmental material that has been buried into soil by counting the environmental material using quadrat ,  rope with knots or other devices befor and after the incorporation process .
an area quality inhering in a farm .
an area quality inhering in a field .
a site within which an agricultural experimental process is conducted
an area quality inhering in a plot .
a block is a relatively large area or several identical units receiving all or most of the treatments .
number of block used for an experiment .
number of plot used during an experiment .
a length quality that inheres in the smallest unit of an experiment .
a width entity that inheres in the smallest unit of an experiment .
a rounded container used to cultivate plant .
number of pot used during an experiment .
distance between the top and the bottom of a pot .
the amount of a row
a width entity that inheres in some row .
a length quality that is the distance between the beginning and the end of a row .
distance quality that represents the distance between two plots .
the distance of a whole plant
distance between two hills .
the distance of a row
orientation of the rows in a field .
orientation of the plots in a field .
replication is the repetition of the set of all the treatment combinations used in an experiment .
a process during which some material is applied to a subject
number of treatments tested during an experiment .
number of replications in an experiment .
a crop is any cultivated plant ,  fungus ,  or alga that is harvested for food ,  clothing ,  livestock , fodder ,  biofuel ,  medicine ,  or other uses
number of different crop used in an experiment .
number of crops cultivated at the same time during the previous year in the field where the experiment is done .
orientation of the slope
an experimental design that enables an additional factor or treatment to be included at more than one level ;  each plot is split into two or more parts .
an experimental design in which the desired precision for measuring the interaction effect between the two factors is higher than that for measuring the main effect of either one of  the two factors .
an experimental design in which two or more factors ,  each with discrete possible values or "levels" ,  and whose experimental units take on all possible combinations of these levels across all such factors .
an experimental design in which the treatments are assigned completely at random so that each experimental unit has the same chance of receiving any one treatment .
an experimental design in which the blocks should be composed of plots that are as homogeneous as possible .
an experimental design in which each treatment is included only once and is near to a control treatment .
an experimental design in which basic farming practices are compared using demonstration strips on a farm field .
a lattice design in which the number of treatment must be a perfect square .
a lattice design that is a resolvable incomplete block design where the number of treatments or block size does not meet the strict requirements for one of the lattice designs .
the landform refers to the shape of the land surface in the area in which the agronomic trial site is located .
description of the geomorphology of the immediate surroundings of the experimental site .
the grade of a physical feature ,  landform or constructed line refers to the tangent of the angle of that surface to the horizontal .
a factor of an experiment is a controlled independent variable ;  a variable whose levels are set by the experimenter .
constraint known to affect the experiment or the crop performances .
a plan specification that states how treatments are allocated to the experimental units during an agronomic trial .
unexpected event arrived during the experiment .
a complication with the equipement used during the experiment .
a complication with a person or a group of people working on the experiement .
percentage of the area of the experiment damaged due to a complication during the experiment .
a planned process in which an analysis of soil is performed to determine soil characteristics .
pattern used to plant crop in field .
planting is done on flat - top circular mounds .
planting is done in lines .
planting distribution where the crop zone and the traffic lanes  ( wheel tracks or furrows )  are distinctly and permanently separated .
planting is done on all the field surface .
shape quality that refers to the general shape of a slope in both vertical and horizontal directions .
maximum length of an agromical field .
an observation post where weather conditions and meteorological data are observed and recorded and reported .
distance between the ground and the temperature sensor .
distance between the ground and the wind speed sensor .
location where the experiment is implemented .
experimental site in which the experiment is implemented on the field of a farmer .
experimental site in which the experiment is done in a the field of a research station .
an experimental site in which the experiment is performed in a structure with walls and roof made chiefly of transparent material ,  such as glass ,  with the possibility to regulate climatic conditions .
experimental site where the experiment is done in a forest owned by a government .
experimental site where the experiment is done in a private forest .
elevation above the sea level of the experimental site .
elevation above sea level of the weather station .
a planned process in which a procedure is carried out to support ,  refute ,  or validate a hypothesis .
an experiment in which a scientific method is implemented for testing certain agricultural phenomena .
a person engaged in agriculture ,  raising living organisms for food or raw materials .
a person who conducts research .
a person that is enrolled or attends classes at a school ,  college ,  or university .
a person that works in a research station .
a person that is employed by the government to assist people in rural areas with methods of farming and home economics .
a person that is an educator who works at a college or university .
roled performed by a person during an experiment .
a person that has a role of collecting data related to the experiment .
a person that is the holder of an independent grant and the lead researcher for the grant project .
a person that has a role of managing the experiment .
a person that has a role of performing the operations required to run the experiment in the field .
an object to be used by hand to plough soil .
vegetation maintained in purpose on and at the border of an agronomic experimental field .
strip of flowers established at the edge of the field .
type of vegetation surrounding an agronomic experimental site
slope on which terraces have been build .
slope shape irregular .
an agricultural field that is set aside for a period of time before it is cultivated again ;  or an agricultral field that is under permanent crops ,  meadows or pastures and that is not being used for such purposes for a period of at least one year .
strips of land along the borders of crop fields .
tool for loosening compacted soil layers 12 to 16 inches  ( 30 to 40 cm )  deep and still maintain high surface residue levels .
tillage tool that stirs and pulverizes the soil ,  either before planting  ( to aerate the soil and prepare a smooth ,  loose seedbed )  or after the crop has begun growing  ( to kill weeds—controlled disturbance of the topsoil close to the crop plants kills the surrounding weeds by uprooting them ,  burying their leaves to disrupt their photosynthesis ,  or a combination of both )  .
a disk harrow with disc blades arranged into four sections .
a disk harrow with disc blades arranged into two sections .
a sowing device that positions seeds in the soil and then covers them .
a seeding implement that consists of a seed drum ,  main shaft ,  ground wheel ,  floats ,  and handle .
an agricultural hand tool ade of a blade set to an handle and used to shape the soil ,  control weeds ,  clear soil ,  and harvest root crops .
a seed drill that consists of a seed box attached to the mainframe of a hand wheel hoe .
a curved metal bar used to open the soil before putting the seed into the soil .
manually operated device for creating a conical cavity in the soil for sowing of seeds .
manually operated hand tool which consists of a seed hopper ,  cell roller for metering of seeds ,  spring actuated jaws for penetration in the soil ,  pipe and handle .
an tool made of mild steel flat or leaf spring by forging operation .
manually operated push device for dibbling of medium and bold size seeds .
manually operated hand tool that consists of cutter head having semicircular blades connected to pipe with the help of clamp and flange .
a flat and circular piece of metal used to open the soil before putting the seed into the soil .
double flat and circular piece of metal used to open the soil before putting the seed into the soil .
irrigation method based on manual intervention .
irrigation method with no or just a minimum of manual intervention beside the surveillance .
an application method in which a material entity is placed into the soil in holes made with a pointed implement .
an application method in which seeds are uniformlyplaced into shallow furrows before closing the furrows .
vertical arrangement of plants in a field .
total quantity of fertilizer applied in a given surface area during a cropping season .
a planned process in which grazing animals on pasture are managed by humans .
grazing management system developped by allan savory .
a grazing management method that involves moving livestock at least daily between small paddocks ,  sized to match the number of grazing animals ,  and split by fence .
a grazing management system in which the land is subdivided or sectioned off into smaller areas ,  sometimes called paddocks .
a grazing management system in which livestock have unrestricted access to the pasture area throughout the grazing season .
a system of grazing which confined animals to a strip or small part of the field for rapid grazing in a short time period . .
a rotational grazing management system that implies many paddocks are utilized and livestock are moved on a frequent basis .
an intensive rotational grazing system in which livestock is allowed to graze for a limited time ,  leaving a leafy stubble ,  and then is moved to another area .
intensive grazing system in which the field is divided into many small plots of equal size .
a grazzing management system that allows young farm animals to graze part of the pasture before the adults .
a gazing management system in which two or more groups of animal ,  usually with different nutritional needs ,  graze the same paddock but at different time .
area quality inhering in a surface that have been harvested .
the area of a mulch
area of soil covered by organic fertilizer .
height of the small earth embankments which contain irrigation water within basins .
tractor speed in the field .
an area density quality which inheres in micronutrients by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of micronutrients applied in a given surface area .
an area density quality which inheres in above - ground crop residue by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of above - ground crop residue applied in a given surface area .
length of the pivot used during the irrigation process .
distance between the bottom of the well and the soil surface .
an area density quality which inheres in rhizobium by virtue of some influence exerted by the mass of rhizobium inoculated into the soil .
amount of nutrient in the crop as a ratio of the amount applied or available .
calculate the amount of nitrogen in the crop as a ratio of the amount of nitrogen applied or available .
ratio between the amount of nitrogen fertilizer removed from the field by the crop and the amount of nitrogen fertilizer applied .
calculate the ratio between the amount of nitrogen fertilizer removed with the crop and the amount of nitrogen fertilizer applied .
carbon - to - nitrogen ratio is a ratio of the mass of carbon to the mass of nitrogen in an organic fertilizer .
agricultural tool that is hand - held and composed of a curved blade with a sharp inside and a handle .
planned process is which the edible part of the cereal grain is loosen from the scaly ,  inedible chaff that surrounds it .
agricultural tool made from two or more large sticks attached by a short chain ;  one stick is held and swung ,  causing the other to strike a pile of grain ,  loosening the husks .
agricultural tool that consists of a shaft about 170 centimetres  ( 67 in )  long made of wood or metal .
a planned process in which the grain is separated from chaff .
a pruning process in which whole tops of trees or large branches and / or trunks from the tops of trees are removed ,  leaving stubs or lateral branches that are too small to assume the role of a terminal leader .
a pruning process in which dried ,  yellowish green ,  bottom leaves in the sugarcane crop are removed at regular intervals .
a planned process in which a rigid support is used to support ,  or to prevent from falling a crop or a tree .
maximum width of an agronomical field .
a planned process in which a definite cycle of crops or crop types is grown in succession on the same land .
a process in which a definite cycle of management interventions is done on the same land .
an agricultural experiment running over decadal time periods .
an agricultural experiment running over less than decadal time periods .
an agricultural experiment having one or more definite sequences .
an agricultural experiment having more than one definite rotations or a comparison between rotation and mono - cropping .
an agricultural experiment involving the prolonged growing of a single crop .
a planned process in which a single crop is cultivated in an area at a time .
an agricultural experiment in which a sequence of crops is grown without repetition
an agronomic experimental design set for rotation experiments
a rotation layoutan using series .
a rotation layout that does not use series .
a block in which the plots carry the same phase of a rotation .
a planned process which is a distinguishable part of a rotation process
a duration inhering in a crop rotation process
an inter - cropping experiement dunring which two or more crops are grown on the same field .
a role that inheres in an organism that is harvested for food ,  clothing ,  livestock , fodder ,  biofuel ,  medicine ,  or other uses .
a crop role that inheres in a crop that is planted first on a land where more than one crop are planted .
a crop role that inheres in a crop that is planted on the same field than another crop after the it has completed its development .
a role that inheres in an animal that is kept by humans and trained to perform tasks .
a role that inheres in a human to power an implement .
an agricultural implement used during a weeding process
a crop residue which is the cut stalks of cereal plants left sticking out of the ground after the grain is harvested .
a crop residie which is the cut outter shell or coating of a seed .
a localized irrigation process in which water is conveyed to the soil surface as a little stream ,  typically from a small diameter tube or a commercially available emitter .
a localized irrigation process in which water is conveyed under high pressure through small nozzles and sprayed in a fine mist of water over the plants .
a sprinkler irrigation process in which water is dispersed over the plant through a self - propelled irrigation systems with both ends of the system move at a constant speed up and down the area to irrigate .
a sprinkler irrigation process in which water is dispersed over the plant through a system long lateral pipes mounted on 1 to 3 meter wheels in diameter ,  the pipe serving as an axle .
a process in which mulch is removed from the soil .
an environmental zone prepared for growing plants .
a seedbed that is flat .
a seedbed that is below the surrounding soil level .
a raised seedbed which is long and narrow with steep sides .
a raised seedbed that is of rounded form and limited extent .
a harvest implement for grain crops which cuts the stems and binds the stems into bundles or sheaves .
an harvest implement that compresses a cut and raked crop into compact bales .
a tillage implement that has multiple sets of vertical tines .
an implement that is used in a mowing process .
the roller is an heavy agricultural tool used for flattening land or breaking up large clumps of soil ,  especially after ploughing or disc harrowing .
an fallow land that is set aside for a period of time and kept free from vegetation by cultivation .
a pest role that inheres in an plant .
a planned process in which a seedbed is prepared to grow plants .
a seeding process that is the random scattering of seed .
a seeding process during which seeds are sown in lines
a seeding process that consists in placing seeds in holes .
a seeding process which is dropping the seeds in furrow lines in a continuous flow and covering them with soil .
a material entity that has a fertilizer role and that is derived from animal or vegetable matter .
a material entity that has a fertilizer role and that is mined from mineral deposits or manufactured from synthetic compounds .
a compost that is the product of the decomposition process using various species of worms ,  usually red wigglers ,  white worms ,  and other earthworms ,  to create a mixture of decomposing vegetable or food waste ,  bedding materials ,  and vermicast .
a vermicompost that uses earthworms .
a limestone that is derived from deposits of primarily calcium carbonate .
a limestone that is derived from deposits of calcium carbonate combined with magnesium carbonate and contains high levels of magnesium .
a inorganic fertilizer that provides nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  and potassium .
an inorganic fertlizer that facilitates proper deep point placement of urea fertilizer ,  as urea is used as granules .
a crop that has been harvested after an harvesting process .
a row that has been harvested .
a plant transplanting process that is done manual by a human being .
a plant transplanting process that is done mechanically .
a weeding process in which chemical is used to manage unwanted weeds .
a weeding process in which physical means such as barriers ,  traps and handpicking ,  or physical conditions like high temperature ,  are used to control unwanted weeds .
a weeding process in which extremely cold temperature are used to kill plant .
a weeding process in which plants are directly burned and flamed .
a mechanical weeding process in which unwanted organisms are removed by hands .
a mechanical control weeding process in wich extremely hot temperature are used to kill weeds .
an enviromental material that has a role of fertilization
a organic fertilizer role that is derived from plants directly growned on the area to be fertilized .
a fertilizer that is obtained by acid chemical attack of a phosphate rock with sulfuric acid .
a fertilizer that is obtained by acid chemical attack of a phosphate rock with phosphoric acid .
a fertilizer that is produced by the condensation between urea and formaldehyde consisting of short chains from methylene - diurea to tetramethylenepentaurea .
a fertilizer that is produced by the condensation between urea and formaldehyde consisting of short chains from methylene - diurea to tetramethylenepentaurea .
a fertilizer that is a single compound made by the condensation of 2 mols of acetaldehyde and 2 mols of urea .
a fertilizer that is made by coating urea with sulphur and wax to increases nitrogen efficiency .
a planned process which occurs during an agricultural experiment .
the occurrence of a land levelling process
the depth of a puddling process
the depth of a tillage process
the occurrence of a tillage process
the thickness of a crop residue
the amount of a crop residue
the area of a crop residue
the depth of a crop residue
the amount of a organic fertilizer
the amount of a inorganic fertilizer
the amount of a nutrient
the occurrence of a fertilization process
the amount of a mulch
the occurrence of a irrigation process
the distance of a bund
the amount of a agronomic fertilizer
the occurrence of a weeding process
the amount of a harvested crop
the amount of a harvested row
the length of a harvested row
the distance of a harvested row
the mass of a harvested crop
an agricultural experiment during which at least two different crops are grown at the same time .
a environmental material which contains living microorganisms ,  which ,  when applied to seeds ,  plant surfaces ,  or soil ,  colonize the rhizosphere or the interior of the plant and promotes growth by increasing the supply or availability of primary nutrients to the host plant .
charcoal used as a soil amendment .
an animal manure composoed of the excrement of seabirds and bats .
a tillage process during which the tillage occurs at 25 - 30 cm depth .
fish fertilizer is any fish product that is used specifically to feed plants and soil .
process to remove unwanted plants from an area of ground .
inorganic fertilizer that contains nitrogen
inorganic fertilizer that contains phosphorus
inorganic fertilizer that contains potassium
a planned process in which fertilizer is applied to an environmental material to promote the growth of a plant .
group together tillage and no - till processes
a planned process during which the environment of a crop plant is maintained such that the plant grows
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
material anatomical entity that is a member of an individual species or is a viral or viroid particle .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
a potassium salt that is the dipotassium salt of carbonic acid .
a reagent that lightens or whitens a substrate through chemical reaction .
an atom of an element that exhibits properties that are between those of metals and nonmetals ,  or that has a mixture of them .
a bronsted acid derived from one or more inorganic compounds .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
an isotopically modified compound in which the abundance of a  ( 13 ) c isotope at one or more positions has been increased above that of the naturally occurring level .
any molecular entity in which the isotopic ratio of nuclides for at least one element deviates measurably from that occurring in nature .
a chemical compound that causes a substantial proportion of exposed people or animals to develop an allergic reaction in normal tissue after repeated exposure to the compound .
a mixture of ammonium sulfate and ammonium nitrate used as a feriliser to provide both nitrogen and sulfur nutrients .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from selenic acid .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from hydrogen sulfide .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
an oxygen hydride consisting of an oxygen atom that is covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a sulfur hydride consisting of a single sulfur atom bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
a sulfur oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of both oh groups of sulfuric acid .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
a one - carbon compound with formula co2 in which the carbon is attached to each oxygen atom by a double bond .
a nitrile that is hydrogen cyanide in which the hydrogen has been replaced by an amino group .
a pseudohalide anion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen cyanide .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
a nitrogen oxoanion formed by loss of a proton from nitric acid .
a mononuclear parent hydride consisting of covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a molecular entity that can transfer  ( "donate" )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
an elemental molecule consisting of two trivalently - bonded nitrogen atoms .
a solution of ammonia in water .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of hydrogenphosphate .
a compound having the structure rc#n ;  thus a c - substituted derivative of hydrocyanic acid ,  hc#n .
a one - carbon compound consisting of a methine group triple bonded to a nitrogen atom
an organic group formed by removing one or more hydroxy groups from an oxoacid that has the general structure rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
the univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of  - oh from the carboxy group of carbamic acid .
organooxygen compounds that are salts or esters of carbonic acid ,  h2co3 .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a metal sulfate compound having copper ( 2 +  )  as the metal ion .
salts and c - organyl derivatives of hydrogen cyanide ,  hc#n .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
any  phosphate that contains no carbon atom .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
a molecule all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
an oxide in which the oxygen atom is bonded to a carbon atom .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
any organic aromatic compound with a structure based on a phenylpropane skeleton .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom .
any alkali metal salt having potassium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
salts and esters of sulfuric acid
a sulfur oxoacid that consists of two oxo and two hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central sulfur atom .
poisonous substance produced by a biological organism such as a microbe ,  animal or plant .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
a univalent carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a one - carbon compound that is ammonia in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a carboxy group .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
an ion of copper carrying a double positive charge .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from potassium .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
a carboxamide derived from a monocarboxylic acid .
a silicon oxide made up of linear triatomic molecules in which a silicon atom is covalently bonded to two oxygens .
a member of the class of calcium oxides of calcium and oxygen in a 1:1 ratio .
a magnesium salt with formula cmgo3 .
a  ( 13 ) c - modified compound that is urea in which the carbon is present as its  ( 13 ) c isotope .
a metal chloride salt with a k (  +  )  counterion .
a magnesium salt having sulfate as the counterion .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a calcium salt with formula ccao3 .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
any material that can be ingested by an organism .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
an alkaline earth molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkaline earth metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a pnictogen oxoacid which contains phosphorus and oxygen ,  at least one hydrogen atom bound to oxygen ,  and forms an ion by the loss of one or more protons .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
a main group molecular entity containing one or more atoms of any noble gas .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
a metal sulfate compound having zinc ( 2 +  )  as the counterion .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a substance that increases the rate of a reaction without modifying the overall standard gibbs energy change in the reaction .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens bonded to the nitrogen have been replaced with univalent organyl groups .
compounds  ( nh4 (  +  )  ) y (  -  )  and derivatives ,  in which one or more of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent groups .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
an agent capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
an ec 1 .2 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group with nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of aldehyde dehydrogenase  ( nad (  +  )  )  ,  ec 1 .2 .1 .3 .
a loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system .
an addition compound contains two or more simpler compounds that can be packed in a definite ratio into a crystal .
an addition compound that contains water in weak chemical combination with another compound .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor which interferes with the activity of the enzyme protein tyrosine phosphatases  ( ptps )  ,  ec 3 .1 .3 .48 ,  involved in the removal of phosphate groups from phosphorylated tyrosine residues on proteins .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
a carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of at least one oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a drug used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
one of a class of drugs that acts by selective inhibition of calcium influx through cell membranes or on the release and binding of calcium in intracellular pools .
an ec 1 .9 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cytochrome c oxidase  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .1 )  .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
a membrane transport modulator that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of phosphoric acid in which one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of dihydrogenphosphate .
in general ,  a mineral is a chemical substance that is normally crystalline formed and has been formed as a result of geological processes .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
a nitrogen oxoacid of formula hno3 in which the nitrogen atom is bonded to a hydroxy group and by equivalent bonds to the remaining two oxygen atoms .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing =o by =nr ;  thus tautomers of amides .
a carboximidic acid that is the imidic acid tautomer of urea ,  h2nc ( =nh ) oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a substance used either in the prevention or facilitation of pregnancy .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role played by a chemical compound to induce direct or indirect dna damage .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
sulfate salts where the cation is a metal ion .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
compounds containing one or more phosphoric acid units .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
a metal cation with a valence of two .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
a molecular messenger in which the molecule is specifically involved in transmitting information between cells .
a family of nitrogen molecular entities which are highly reactive and derived from nitric oxide  (  .no )  and superoxide  ( o2 .
an inorganic sulfate salt obtained by reaction of sulfuric acid with two equivalents of ammonia .
the ammonium salt of phosphoric acid  ( molar ratio 1:1 )  .
the inorganic nitrate salt of sodium .
a potassium salt in which dihydrogen phosphate ( 1 -  )  is the counterion .
the ammonium salt of nitric acid .
the inorganic nitrate salt of potassium .
an inorganic phosphate ,  being the diammonium salt of phosphoric acid .
any zinc ion that is positively charged .
a substance that removes electrons from another reactant in a redox reaction .
a substance capable of undergoing rapid and highly exothermic decomposition .
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
a food additive that is used to change or otherwise control the acidity or alkalinity of foods .
inorganic nitrate salt of calcium .
the calcium salt of cyanamide ,  formed when calcium carbide reacts with nitrogen
an organic nitrogen anion formed from cyanamide by loss of its two protons .
a polyphenylpropanoid derived from three monolignol monomers: trans - p - coumaryl alcohol ,  coniferol and trans - sinapyl alcohol .
a food additive which is added to flour or dough to improve baking quality and / or colour .
an inorganic cation with a valency of two .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
the inorganic nitrate salt of magnesium .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
any substance which is used to neutralise stomach acidity .
any compound used to suppress premature labour and immature birth by suppressing uterine contractions .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
a compound that causes the contraction of body tissues ,  typically used to reduce bleeding from minor abrasions .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range ,  so contributing to the 'greenhouse effect' .
a compressed gas or liquid with a boiling point lower than room temperature which to used to propel and dispense liquids such as deodorants ,  insecticides ,  paints ,  etc .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the aldehyde or oxo group of donors  ( ec 1 .2 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on a heme group of donors  ( ec 1 .9 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphoric monoester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
an ec 1 .2 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .2 .1 .
an ec 1 .9 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with one or more steps in a metabolic pathway .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
a food additive that imparts colour to food .
a calcium salt composed of calcium and phosphate / diphosphate ions ;  present in milk and used for the mineralisation of calcified tissues .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
an inorganic sodium salt having selenate as the counterion .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
a food additive that is used to make or keep fruit or vegetable tissues firm and crisp .
a food additive that is a  ( generally inert )  gas which is used to envelop foodstuffs during packing and so protect them from unwanted chemical reactions such as food spoilage or oxidation during subsequent transport and storage .
a propellant that is used to expel foods from an aerosol container .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
any inorganic anion with a valency of three .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
an animal metabolite produced by arthropods such as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimps and krill .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia magna .
a crustacean metabolite produced by the genus of small planktonic arthropods ,  daphnia
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in algae including unicellular organisms like chlorella and diatoms to multicellular organisms like giant kelps and brown algae .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
a mixture consisting of urea  ( typically 40 - 45% )  ,  ammonium nitrate  ( 30 - 35% )  and water  ( 30 - 20% )  .
a mixture obtained by combining ammonium nitrate ,  calcium nitrate and water .
a mixture obtained by combining ammonium sulfate and urea .
an anthropogenic geographic feature is a geographic feature resulting from the influence of human beings on nature .
a primary administrative division of a country ,  such as a state in the united states .
a subdivision of a first - order administrative division .
a subdivision of a second - order administrative division .
a political association with effective dominion over a geographic area .
a geographical feature associated with water .
a marine water body which is constitutes the majority of an astronomical body's hydrosphere .
a large expanse of saline water usually connected with an ocean .
a geographical feature associated with water with a halinity above 30 ppt  ( roughly 35 g / l )  .
a lake whose water contains a considerable concentration of dissolved salts .
a body of water or other liquid of considerable size contained in a depression on a landmass .
a stream which ,  through permanent or seasonal flow processes ,  moves from elevated land towards lower elevations through a definite channel and empties either into a sea ,  lake ,  or another river or ends on land as bed seepage and evapotranspiration exceed water supply .
a watercourse which is linear and flows across the solid portion of a planetary surface .
an artificial body of water ,  often contained by a dam ,  constructed for the purpose of water storage .
a cylindrical hole ,  pit ,  or tunnel drilled or dug down to a depth from which water ,  oil ,  or gas can be pumped or brought to the surface .
a point where groundwater or steam flows out of the ground ,  and is thus where the aquifer surface meets the ground surface or where there is a fissure .
a flowing body of water .
a sheet of saline water separated from the open sea by sand or shingle banks .
an vegetated area which overlaps a wetland ecosystem .
a dense growth of shrubbery planted as a fence or boundary .
a swamp which is located in tropical or subtropical environments and is determined by communities of trees and shrubs growing saline coastal environments .
an accumulation of water of varying size .
a feature that has been constructed by deliberate human effort .
an area of land which is used for the cultivation of crops or grazing of livestock ,  including any agricultural constructions therein .
a landform that extends above the surrounding terrain in a limited area .
a rounded elevation of limited extent rising above the surrounding land with local relief of less than 300m .
a region of general uniform slope ,  comparatively level ,  and of considerable extent .
an area of flat ,  low - lying land adjacent to a coast and separated from the interior by other features .
a landform consisting of loose rock particles such as sand ,  gravel ,  shingle ,  pebbles ,  cobble ,  or even shell fragments along the shoreline of a body of water .
a landform consisting of loose rock particles such as sand ,  gravel ,  shingle ,  pebbles ,  cobble ,  or even shell fragments along the shoreline of a sea .
a landform consisting of loose rock particles such as sand ,  gravel ,  shingle ,  pebbles ,  cobble ,  or even shell fragments along the shoreline of a lake .
a part of an astronomical body associated with a volcano  -  an opening ,  or rupture ,  in that body's surface or crust  -  which allows hot ,  molten rock ,  ash and gases to escape from deep below the surface .
a region rendered barren or partially barren by environmental extremes ,  especially by low rainfall .
area of dry or relatively dry land surrounded by water or low wetland .
a depression which has been formed as a result of erosion by water or ice and which is low - lying ,  bordered by higher ground ,  and especially elongate .
an area in which grasses  ( graminae )  are a significant component of the vegetation .
a grassland ecosystem which contains a variety of annual ,  biennial and perennial plants growing on rolling or flat terrain .
land having a cover of trees ,  shrubs ,  or both .
an area with a high density of trees .
a vegetated area which overlaps treeless ,  level ,  or gently rolling plains characteristic of arctic or subarctic regions ,  permanently frozen subsoil ,  and communities of low growing vegetation such as lichens ,  mosses ,  and stunted shrubs .
a field which is located on land and used for agricultural purposes ,  such as the grazing of livestock or the cultivation of crops .
a forest that has been intentionally established by human intervention .
a geographical region whose affairs and population are administered by an authority .
a valley that no longer has a surface flow of water .
a valley that contains ,  and has been formed by ,  a stream .
a ridge of rocks ,  lying near the surface of the sea ,  which may be visible at low tide ,  but is usually covered by water .
a hydrographic feature characterized by the dominance of snow or ice .
soil or rock and included ice or organic material at or below the freezing point of water  ( 0 degrees celsius or 32 degrees fahrenheit )  for two or more years .
an opening of the sea into the land .
the sloping margin of a watercourse ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
the sloping margin of a stream ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
the sloping margin of a river ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
aragonite structures produced by living organisms ,  found in shallow ,  marine waters with little nutrients in the water .
a small ,  isolated ,  fertile or green area in a desert region ,  usually having a spring or well .
an oceanic island ,  often having a characteristic ring - like shape surrounding a lagoon .
a hill of sand built by eolian processes .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical distance of a point above or below a reference surface .
an artificial slope or wall ,  usually earthen ,  which parallels the course of a river ,  built for the purpose of containing the river .
an elevated and comparatively level expanse of land .
a tributary valley with the floor at a higher relief than the main channel into which it flows .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of solid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
broken rock that appears at the bottom of crags ,  mountain cliffs or valley shoulders .
an island that does not sit on a continental shelf ,  and is of volcanic origin .
a wetland ecosystem which overlaps both terrestrial and marine ecosystems .
a wetland ecosystem in which land mass is permanently inundated by shallow bodies of water ,  generally with a substantial number of hummocks ,  or dry - land protrusions .
a wetland which is inundated with water that contains low concentrations of salts .
an opening ,  or rupture ,  in the earth's surface or crust ,  which allows hot ,  molten rock ,  ash and gases to escape from deep below the surface .
a valley that contains ,  or contained ,  a glacier and was formed by glacial activity .
an area which is subject to periodic flooding .
an area of land of low topographic relief that historically supported grasses and herbs ,  with few trees ,  and having generally a mesic  ( moderate or temperate )  climate .
a grassland of the tropics or subtropics with scattered trees .
a plain without trees  ( apart from those near rivers and lakes )  ;  it is similar to a prairie ,  although a prairie is generally considered as being dominated by tall grasses ,  while short grasses are said to be normal in the steppe .
a grassland ecosystem which is used for grazing of ungulate livestock as part of a farm or ranch .
a slope which separates different physiogeographic provinces that are typically composed of rocks of different age and compositoin .
a long and narrow elevation with steep sides .
an isolated hill with steep sides and a small flat top ,  smaller than mesas and plateaus .
an extent or area of land where surface water from rain and melting snow or ice converges to a single point at lower elevation ,  usually the exit of the basin ,  where the waters join another waterbody .
a flooded parcel of arable land used for growing rice and other semiaquatic crops .
area covered with low - growing or stunted perennial vegetation and usually not mixed with trees .
the general region of indefinite width that extends from the sea inland to the first major change in terrain features .
that part of the land in immediate contact with a body of water including the area between high and low water lines .
a landform sunken or depressed below the surrounding area .
a fluvioglacial landform occurring as the result of blocks of ice calving from the front of a receding glacier and becoming partially to wholly buried by glacial outwash .
the plain formed by the large amounts of silt and sediment ,  picked up as a glacier erodes the underlying rocks as it moves slowly downhill ,  and at the snout of the glacier ,  meltwater can carry this sediment away from the glacier and deposit it on a broad plain .
an abiotic  mesoscopic feature made of the mineral material of the crust of the earth .
a piece of rock that is two millimeters  ( 2mm )  in its largest dimension  ( about 1 / 12 of an inch )  and no more than 75 millimeters  ( about 3 inches )  .
a lake purposefully constructed .
a large sea or ocean inlet larger than a bay ,  deeper than a bight ,  wider than a fjord ,  or it may identify a narrow sea or ocean channel between two bodies of land .
the physical confine of a river ,  slough or ocean strait consisting of a bed and banks .
an island that lies in a river .
an island that lies in a lake .
a biome is an ecosystem to which resident ecological communities have evolved adaptations .
a terrace associated with a kame .
a biome that applies to the terrestrial realm .
an aquatic biome that comprises systems of open - ocean and unprotected coastal habitats ,  characterized by exposure to wave action ,  tidal fluctuation ,  and ocean currents as well as systems that largely resemble these .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of providing water for irrigation .
an opening of the sea into the land ,  or of a lake into its shore .
an opening of a lake into its shore .
a mountain or a hill .
the summit of a mount .
that part of the land in immediate contact with a sea ,  including the intertidal zone .
the portion of the ground surface which lies below water .
a step - like feature between higher and lower ground: a relatively flat or gently inclined shelf of earth ,  backed and fronted by steep slopes or manmade detaining walls .
a generally circular saucer or bowl - shaped depression caused by volcanic or meteorite explosive action .
a relatively undissected upland between adjacent stream valleys .
a ridge of sand just inland and parallel to the beach ,  usually in series .
an irregularly shaped hill or mound composed of sorted or stratified sand and gravel that is deposited in contact with the glacial ice .
a rock is a naturally occurring solid aggregate of one or more minerals or mineraloids .
soil is an environmental material which is primarily composed of minerals ,  varying proportions of sand ,  silt ,  and clay ,  organic material such as humus ,  gases ,  liquids ,  and a broad range of resident micro -  and macroorganisms .
a significant accumulation of water which is part of a marine biome .
a solid astronomical body part which is part of the planetary surface between the peak of an elevation or the bottom of a depression and  relatively flat surrounding land .
an object which is large enough to be visible to humans ,  but small enough that humans can handle the object  ( i .e .
the mixture of gases  ( roughly  ( by molar content / volume: 78% nitrogen ,  20 .95% oxygen ,  0 .93% argon ,  0 .038% carbon dioxide ,  trace amounts of other gases ,  and a variable amount  ( average around 1% )  of water vapor )  that surrounds the planet earth .
an environmental material primarily composed of dihydrogen oxide in its liquid form .
sediment is an environmental substance comprised of any particulate matter that can be transported by fluid flow and which eventually is deposited as a layer of solid particles on the bedor bottom of a body of water or other liquid .
minute solid particles with diameters less than 500 micrometers .
water which contains a significant concentration of dissolved salts .
water which has a low concentration of dissolved solutes ,  particularly that of sodium chloride .
an igneous rock that results from magma reaching the surface either as lava or fragmental ejecta .
a rock formed by deposition of either clastic sediments ,  organic matter ,  or chemical precipitates  ( evaporites )  ,  followed by compaction of the particulate matter and cementation during diagenesis .
water that is found on the surface of an astronomical object .
the residual semi - solid material left from domestic or industrial processes ,  or wastewater treatment processes .
sediment characterised by the absence of oxygen .
a sedimentary rock composed largely of the mineral calcite .
a soft ,  white ,  porous limestone .
water which has physicochemical properties that have been determined by the processes occuring in a sea or ocean .
coastal sea water is sea water that is adjacent to a coast .
the aerobically decomposed remnants of organic materials .
arenosols are sandy soils ,  including both soils developed in residual sands after in situ weathering of usually quartz - rich sediments or rock ,  and soils developed in recently deposited sands such as dunes in deserts and beach lands .
andosols are soils that develop in volcanic ejecta or glasses under almost any climate  ( except under hyperarid climate conditions )  .
acrisols are soils that have a higher clay content in the subsoil than in the topsoil as a result of pedogenetic processes  ( especially clay migration )  leading to an argic subsoil horizon .
cambisols combine soils with at least an incipient subsurface soil formation .
chernozems are soils with a thick black surface layer that is rich in organic matter .
kastanozems are dry grassland soils ,  among them the zonal soils of the short - grass steppe belt ,  south of the eurasian tall - grass steppe belt with chernozems .
histosols comprise soils formed in organic material .
gleysols are wetland soils that ,  unless drained ,  are saturated with groundwater for long enough periods to develop a characteristic gleyic colour pattern .
gypsisols are soils with substantial secondary accumulation of gypsum  ( calcium sulfate )  .
ferralsols represent the classical ,  deeply weathered ,  red or yellow soils of the humid tropics .
nitisols are deep ,  well - drained ,  red ,  tropical soils with diffuse horizon boundaries and a subsurface horizon with more than 30 percent clay and moderate to strong angular blocky structure elements that easily fall apart into characteristic shiny ,  polyhedric  ( nutty )  elements .
luvisols are soils that have a higher clay content in the subsoil than in the topsoil as a result of pedogenetic processes  ( especially clay migration )  leading to an argic subsoil horizon .
phaeozems accommodate soils of relatively wet grassland and forest regions in moderately continental climates .
solonchaks are soils that have a high concentration of soluble salts at some time in the year .
a soil in which there is a high content of expansive clay known as montmorillonite that forms deep cracks in drier seasons or years .
solonetz are soils with a dense ,  strongly structured ,  clayey subsurface horizon that has a high proportion of adsorbed na and / or mg ions .
regosols form a taxonomic remnant group containing all soils that could not be accommodated in any of the other rsgs .
podzols are soils with a typically ash - grey upper subsurface horizon ,  bleached by loss of organic matter and iron oxides ,  on top of a dark accumulation horizon with brown ,  reddish or black illuviated humus and / or reddish fe compounds .
a portion of soil which is found in a forested area .
a material which is not the desired output of a process and which is typically the input of a process which removes it from its producer  ( e .g .
fluvisols accommodate genetically young ,  azonal soils in alluvial deposits .
a material entity which determines an environmental system .
hay is grass ,  legumes or other herbaceous plants that have been cut ,  dried ,  and stored for use as animal fodder ,  particularly for grazing livestock such as cattle ,  horses ,  goats ,  and sheep .
the biomass remaining after sugarcane stalks are crushed to extract their juice .
a group of hydrous aluminium phyllosilicate  ( phyllosilicates being a subgroup of silicate minerals )  minerals  ( see clay minerals )  ,  that are typically less than 2 micrometres in diameter .
a fermented ,  high - moisture forage that can be fed to ruminants .
a material entity that has been processed by humans or their technology in any way ,  including intermediate products as well as final products .
a portion of enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of some material entity .
an agricultural byproduct ,  the dry stalk of a cereal plant ,  after the nutrient grain or seed has been removed .
a portion of soil which is found in a savanna .
soil which has little to no water content and in which minerals and other soluble chemical entities have either bonded or become adsorbed to sold particles due to insufficient water availability .
a portion of soil which is part of a cropland or a rangeland biome .
a portion of soil which is found in a grassland .
soil which has ,  as a part ,  a portion of either fresh or processed animal manure .
soil which is found in a pasture and in which vegetation ,  such as the grass used for the grazing of ungulates ,  grows .
a portion of soil which is found in a steppe .
a portion of environmental material is a fiat object which forms the medium or part of the medium of an environmental system .
a layer of some material entity which is adjacent to one or more of its external boundaries and directly interacts with its immediate surroundings .
airborne solid particles  ( also called dust or particulate matter  ( pm )  )  or liquid droplets .
anthropogenic material in or on which organisms may live .
silt is granular material of a size somewhere between sand and clay whose mineral origin is quartz and feldspar .
a naturally occurring granular material composed of finely divided rock and mineral particles .
gravel is an environmental material which is composed of pieces of rock that are at least two millimeters  ( 2mm )  in its largest dimension and no more than 75 millimeters .
the marine pelagic biome  ( pelagic meaning open sea )  is that of the marine water column ,  from the surface to the greatest depths .
the neritic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column above a continental shelf .
the oceanic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column offshore ,  beyond a continental shelf .
the oceanic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of the marine surface waters occurring offshore ,  away from a continental shelf .
the neritic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of marine surface waters occurring above a continental shelf .
a prominent or distinctive aspect ,  quality ,  or characteristic of environments occurring within the marine water column .
particulate material is an environmental material which is composed of microscopic portions of solid or liquid material suspended in another environmental material .
environmental material derived from living organisms and composed primarily of one or more biomacromolecules .
a shrubland biome is a terrestrial biome which includes ,  across its entire spatial extent ,  dense groups of shrubs .
a grassland biome is a terrestrial biome which  includes ,  across its entire spatial extent ,  an unbroken layer of grasses  ( gramineae )  ,  sedges  ( cyperaceae )  or  rushes  ( juncaceae )  .
a desert biome is a terrestrial biome which loses more liquid water by evapotranspiration than is supplied by precipitation and includes communities adapted to these conditions .
a tundra is a terrestrial biome which includes ,  across its spatial extent ,  only low - growing vegetation such as dwarf shrubs ,  sedges and grasses ,  mosses ,  and lichens .
a mangrove biome is a terrestrial biome which includes ,  across its spatial extent ,  mangrove plants  ( rhizophoraceae )  .
an environmental condition is a range of a determinate quality or combination of qualities that are present in an environmental system .
a tropical condition is an environmental condition in which an environmental system receives high yearly solar irradiance per unit area and ,  on earth ,  the sun reaches a subsolar point at least once during the solar year .
a subtropical condition is an environmental condition in which an envrionmental system receives more solar irradiance than those with temperate conditions ,  but less than those with tropical conditions .
a montane shrubland biome is a shrubland biome which occurs in regions elevated above sea level and which has community structure determined by elevation - dependent environmental conditions .
an anthropogenic terrestrial biome is a terrestrial biome which has community structures determined by human activity .
an environmental condition in which annual precipitation is less than half of annual potential evapotranspiration .
a coastal scrubland is a scrubland which is part of a coast .
a scrubland which is located in a desert .
a cropland biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which is primarily used for agricultural activity and which contains no village or larger human settlement .
a rangeland biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which is primarily used for the rearing and grazing of livestock .
a dense settlement biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which is primarily used for human habitation ,  recreation ,  and industry within built structures with little other land use .
a system which has the disposition to environ one or more material entities .
a mineral material is an environmental material which is primarily composed of some substance that is naturally occurring ,  solid and stable at room temperature ,  representable by a chemical formula ,  usually abiogenic ,  and that has an ordered atomic structure .
water vapour is a vapour which is the gas phase of water .
an atmosphere is a layer of gases surrounding a material body of sufficient mass that is held in place by the gravity of the body .
atmospheric water vapour is water vapour that is part of an atmosphere .
a large unit of land or water containing a geographically distinct assemblage of species ,  natural communities ,  and environmental conditions .
ice is water frozen into a solid state .
ecozones delineate large areas of a planetary surface within which organisms have been evolving in relative isolation over long periods of time ,  separated from one another by geographic features ,  such as oceans ,  broad deserts ,  or high mountain ranges ,  that constitute barriers to migration .
a layer is a quantity of some material which is spatially continuous ,  has comparable thickness ,  and usually covers some surface .
a layer which is part of a lake .
a mass of ice .
a layer that is part of a marine water body .
a river where fresh water flows .
an endolithic environment is an environment that exists within solid rock .
a high temperature environment is an environment in which material entities are exposed to increased levels of heat radiation or which have molecules or atoms moving randomly with increased levels of average kinietic energy .
an aquatic environment which is determined by freshwater .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by saline water .
an environment which has a lower temperature than some local or global average .
an anthropogenic environment is an environmental system which is the product of human activity .
a high osmolarity environment is an environment in which entities are exposed to high concentrations of solutes .
an environment whose dynamics are strongly influenced by water .
a rocky slope is a slope which has a surface primarily composed of rock .
a marine environment and enviroment which is determined by a marine water body .
an environmental system determined by seawater .
the atmospheric boundary layer is the lowest layer of an atmosphere which is strongly influenced by its contact with a planetary surface with strong vertical mixing and in which physical quantities such as flow velocity ,  temperature ,  and moisture display rapid fluctuations  ( turbulence )  .
a planetary surface is a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of a planet comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
a layer in a water mass ,  itself composed primarily of water .
a dome swamp is a swamp which occurs in a depression where deeper waters at the centre of the swamp allow  trees to grow taller relative to those in shallower regions of the depression .
a gravelly slope is a slope which has a surface primarily composed of gravel .
a hillside is a slope that is part of a hill .
a talus slope is a slope which has a surface layer composed of scree .
a montane condition is an environmental condition in which an altitude range falls between mid - altitude forests and the tree line .
an altitudinal condition is an environmental condition in which ranges of factors such as temperature ,  humidity ,  soil composition ,  solar irradiation ,  and tree density vary with ranges in altitude .
an unbroken expanse  ( as of ice ) 
a layer which is determined by a form of vegetation .
a tropical marine condition is a tropical condition in which the ocean strongly influences the climate and a wet and dry season occur .
a semi - evergreen forest is a forest which undergoes a long dry season and ,  as a consequence ,  has a two - storey layer structure ,   a dry canopy ,  a leaf litter layer that only decays during moist periods trees with very small leaves or which shed their leaves to conserve water and which flower during the dry season and grow during the wet season .
snow is an environmental material which is primarily composed of flakes of crystalline water ice .
a site which has its extent determined by the presence or influence of one or more components of an environmental system or the processes occurring therein .
glass is an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  solid which is often transparent .
silica - based glass is a glass composed primarily of silicon dioxide ,  the primary constituent of sand .
a boundary layer is a layer of fluid in the immediate vicinity of a bounding surface where the effects of viscosity are significant enough to distort the surrounding non - viscous flow .
a gas that is primarily composed of hydrocarbon molecules .
charcoal is a light ,  black residue ,  consisting of carbon and any remaining ash ,  obtained by removing water and other volatile constituents from animal and vegetation substances .
a lentic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  has very little to no directed flow .
a lotic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  is flowing .
hydrological condensation is a process in which atmospheric water vapour undergoes a phase transition from the gas phase to the liquid phase .
a volcanic process is a process during which lava ,  tephra  ( ash ,  lapilli ,  volcanic bombs and blocks )  ,  and assorted gases are expelled from a volcanic vent or fissure .
land is a planetary surface that is not covered by liquid .
outer space is a hard vacuum containing a low density of particles ,  predominantly a plasma of hydrogen and helium as well as electromagnetic radiation ,  magnetic fields ,  neutrinos ,  dust and cosmic rays that exists between celestial bodies .
a planetary crust is the outermost solid shell of a rocky planet or natural satellite ,  which is chemically distinct from the underlying mantle .
a planetary structural layer is laminar part of a terrestrial planet or other rocky body large enough to have differentiation by density .
a planetary mantle is a planetary layer which is an interior part of a terrestrial planet or other rocky body large enough to have differentiation by density .
a lithosphere is the outermost shell of a terrestrial - type planet or natural satellite that is defined by its rigid mechanical properties .
magma is a mixture of molten or semi - molten rock ,  volatiles ,  and solids that is found beneath the uppermost solid layer of a planetary body .
a role that is realized in some process wherein the bearer is discarded or not utilized further .
a geological fracture is any separation in a geologic formation ,  such as a joint or a fault that divides a mass of rock into two or more pieces .
a mass of water .
a coast is the area where land meets the sea ,  ocean ,  or lake .
hydrological precipitation is a process during which any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapour is pulled to the planetary surface by gravity .
soil degradation is a process which results in a change in soil health status resulting in a diminished capacity of the ecosystem in which the soil occurs to provide goods and services for its  beneficiaries .
soil erosion is a process in which exogenic processes remove soil from one location on the earth's crust and transport it to another location where it is deposited .
an unusual accumulation of water above the ground caused by high tide ,  heavy rain ,  melting snow or rapid runoff from paved areas .
condensation is a process during which a gas undergoes a phase transition into a liquid .
an environmental system which can sustain and allow the growth of an ecological population .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily composed of bedrock ,  desert pavement ,  scarp rock ,  talus ,  material exposed by slides ,  volcanic material ,  glacial debris ,  sand ,  material exposed during strip mining ,  gravel ,  and other accumulations of earthen material in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of gaseous or aerosolised material held in shape by one or more environmental processes .
forest which originally covered a region before changes in the environment brought about by people .
an area which is outside of a town ,  city ,  or urban area .
a fire is a process whereby rapid and exothermic oxidation of a material through a combustion process releases heat ,  light ,  and other products .
a conflagration which is uncontrolled and combusts material in a vegetated area ,  be it rural or wild .
a fire which occurs in a large spatial area poses a risk to human life ,  animal life ,  health ,  and / or property .
a portion of gas which is emitted by a fire or other exothermic reaction ,  is of increased temperature ,  and typically emits light in the visible range .
a flame which is produced by the combustion of hydrocarbon fuel .
a process whereby a large volume of gas moves due to a disequilibrium of physical forces .
a material entity which is composed of one or more chemical entities and has neither independent shape nor volume but tends to expand indefinitely .
an object which is naturally occuring ,  bound together by gravitational or electromagnetic forces ,  and surrounded by space .
a planet is an astronomical body orbiting a star or stellar remnant that is massive enough to be rounded by its own gravity ,  is not massive enough to cause thermonuclear fusion ,  and has cleared its neighbouring region of planetesimals .
an object which is composed of one or more gravitationally bound structures that are associated with a position in space .
a material part of an astronomical body .
an environmental material which is in a solid state .
an environmental material which is in a liquid state .
a biosphere is an environmental system which includes ,  as parts ,  all the living entities within the gravitational sphere of influence of an astronomical body ,  and the non - living and dead entities which they interact with .
a cryosphere is that part of a planet which is primarily composed of water is in solid form .
an astronomical body part which is composed of the combined mass of water found on ,  under ,  and over the surface of a planet .
combustion or burning is a high - temperature exothermic redox chemical reaction between a fuel and an oxidant that produces oxidized ,  often gaseous products ,  in a mixture termed as smoke .
a chemical decomposition  ( the separation of a single chemical compound into its two or more elemental parts or to simpler compounds )  caused by heat .
a thermolysis process in which organic material is decomposed in the absence of oxygen .
a vegetated area which includes a community of flowering plants that provide food for local pollinators .
marl is a mass of calcium carbonate derived from mollusk shells and mixed with silt and clay .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by a shrubs ,  young trees ,  or stunted trees . .
a precipitation process is a process in which a portion of some substance segregates from a material in which that substance or its precursors were dissolved or suspended in and settles due to a force such as gravity or centrifugal force .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by cultivated or anthropically maintained vegetation planted for recreation ,  erosion control ,  or aesthetic purposes interspersed by constructed or manufactured objects and materials .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by sedges or forbs ,  possibly interpersed with grasses or grass - like plants .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by gramanoid or herbaceous vegetation and which is not subject to intensive management by humans .
a hydrological process in which irregular aggregates of snow fall to a planetary surface .
an envirommental system which bridges two or more biomes and which includes ecological communities which blend these biomes' phylogenetic and phenotypic compositions .
an environmental system in which minimal to no anthropisation has occurred and non - human agents are the primary determinants of the system's dynamics and composition .
a process during which a natural environmental system is altered by human action .
an ecotone which overlaps at least one biome which supports the growth and persistence of trees and at least one that does not .
a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals .
a process whereby a volume of liquid moves due to a disequilibrium of physical forces .
a process during which a volume of water is transported due to a disequilibria in physical forces .
an environmental system which includes ,  as parts ,  all the entities which have been constructed or manufactured by humans or their technology within the gravitational sphere of influence of an astronomical body .
a planned process during which raw or recycled materials are transformed into products for use or sale using labour and machines ,  tools ,  chemical and biological processing ,  or formulation .
an process during which natural or manufactured materials and products are processed and arranged by humans or their technology into structures .
an environmental system which is determined by materials bearing roughly homogeneous qualities .
an environmental system within which an environmental material strongly influences the system's composition and properties .
an environmental system which is determined by a living organism .
an environmental system determined by a green plant .
an environmental system determined by an animal .
a meteor is any matter -  or energy - based entity which is located in the atmosphere of an astronomical body .
a meteor which is primarily composed of water .
a meteor which is primarily composed of rock .
a lake which has formed as the result of processes that are not or are only minimally driven by human activity .
a process during which energy is emitted or transmitted in the form of waves or particles through space or a material medium .
an environment which is determined by materials which bear significant concentrations of salts .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by soil .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by sediment .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a saline aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol with a low concentration of dissolved solutes .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead animal ,  or a whole small animal .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead plant ,  or a whole small plant .
a lake contained within a crater .
an astronomical body which is composed of rocky or metallic materials and is considerably smaller than asteroids .
a material which is composed primarily of one or more pure metals and which shows their properties .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of liquid droplets .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of solid particles .
a process during which pieces of a planetary crust and uppermost mantle move .
a part of a lithosphere which is separated by other such parts by geographic faults or similar geomorphological discontinuities .
a geomorphological feature which is formed where two or more tectonic plates move towards ,  away from ,  or along one another ,  resulting in deformation of the lithosphere .
an environmental system which includes both living and non - living components .
manure which has been collected directly or indirectly from dairy cattle ,  as from flushing of manure from concrete feed lanes ,  free stalls ,  and milking facilities .
a product which is composed primarily of animal manure that has been heat treated and packaged as a product for commercial or consumer use .
a planet which is primarily composed of hydrogen and helium .
an ice is an environmental material which is either frozen or which is maintained in a solid state by gravitational forces or pressure .
a terrestrial planet which has a surface dominated by hot deserts .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by water ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of water .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by ice ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of ice .
a gas planet which has an atmosphere composed primarily of helium .
a material which is composed primarily of chemical elements and compounds with relatively low boiling points ,  equilibrium condensation temperatures below 1300 kelvin ,  and which are part of the crust or atmosphere of a moon or planet .
an astrogeological volatile which is composed primarily of chemical compounds with boiling points around those of hydrogen and helium .
a quality which inheres in a astronomical body or astronomical body part by virtue of the variation in its material composition ,  participation in geological processes ,  and the variation in is land -  and hydroforms .
an environment which has its properties and composition largely determined by the presence of a metazoan which lacks a vetebral column and which has a habitat that is found in an aquatic environmental system .
the surface layer of a volume of water .
the surface layer of a mass of sediment .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a land mass or the atmosphere or space adjacent to it .
a terrestrial zone which is bounded by constructed ,  manufactured ,  or other anthropogenic material entities .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a marine environment .
a process during which sediments compact under pressure ,  expel connate fluids ,  and gradually become solid sedimentary rock .
an ecosystem in which grasses  ( graminae )  are the dominant form of vegetation and determine the system's structure and dynamics .
a terrestrial ecosystem which is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support ,  and that under normal circumstances does support ,  a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions .
a planned process during which an environmental system is modified to mitigate or nullify the impacts of flooding .
a natural environment which is located on a land mass .
a natural environment which is within a water body .
a vegetation layer which is formed by a collection of individual plant crowns ,  themselves constituting part of the aboveground portion of a plant community .
an ecosystem which is determined by communities of plants with a tree growth form and in which members of those communities form continuous or discontinuous regions of canopy cover .
an ecosystem which is determined by communities of annual crops ,  perennial woody crops ,  or by actively tilled land .
a layer which is primarily composed of some liquid material .
a layer which is primarily composed of some solid material ,  allowing for non - solid parts such as interstitial pockets of gas or liquid .
a layer which is primarily composed of some solid material ,  allowing for non - solid parts such as interstitial pockets of gas or liquid .
a vegetated area which has not been cleared or is sparsely settled ,  usually scrub - covered or forested
an environmental zone which is part of an atmosphere .
an oasis is a vegetated area located in a desert ,  supplied with water from a water source which it surrounds ,  and surrounded by arid soil ,  sand ,  or rock .
a vegetated area is a geographic feature which has ground cover dominated by plant communities .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid water held in shape or sustained by an environmental process .
a liquid surface layer which is in contact with air .
a liquid surface layer which is in contact with air .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of solid environmental material .
a body of water which is primarily composed of saline water .
a body of water which is primarily composed of freshwater ,  with low solute content .
a material transport process during which a volume of material is displaced due to a disequilibrium in physical forces and during which 1 )  the qualities that inhere in that volume and 2 )  the processes that are unfolding within it are largely unchanged .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one location on the surface of an astronomical body ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
a material transport process during which solid or liquid particles are directly introduced into a volume of gas .
an ecosystem which 1 )  typically has monthly average temperatures below 10 degrees celsius 2 )  has a low evapotranspiration ratio and 3 )  is determined by communities of low - growing vegetation such as dwarf shrubs ,  sedges and grasses ,  mosses ,  and lichens .
a soil which has high mineral content and which contain no calcareous material ,  have less than 10% weatherable minerals its surface layer ,  and have less than 35% base saturation throughout its volume .
a process during which an ecosystem  -  natural or anthropised  -  is changed by the actions of humans .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid or gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of an astronomical body comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
an elevation which is flattened across its highest surface .
a material transformation process during which a material's viscosity increase either through a reduction in temperature or through chemical reactions .
land which is below the freezing point of water .
soil which is below the freezing point of water .
a water surface that is part of a water body .
an ecoregion which is located on a landmass .
a surface layer of a water body which is part of an ocean or sea .
coastal water is a marine water body bordering a coast .
a mixture of crushed and coarsely ground bones that is used as an organic fertilizer for plants and formerly in animal feed .
plant feed is a biotic mesoscopic physical object consisting of any foodstuff that is used specifically to feed plants .
dust which is derived from mineral material .
dust which is composed primarily of some metallic material .
dust which is derived from clay material .
a process in which includes the components of an environmental system as participants .
a type of land degradation in which a relatively dry land region becomes increasingly arid ,  typically losing its bodies of water as well as vegetation and wildlife .
a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland and / or tidal waters ,  and / or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source .
a process which occurs within an atmosphere .
a process during which humans apply technology to alter the magnitude ,  duration ,  rate ,  or impact of an environmental process .
an environmental process which is driven by the action of humans .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one part of a planet's crust ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
an environmental process which has water  -  in any of its states  -  as a participant .
a process during which the mass of one or more materials ,  present within a given site ,  increases .
a process during which material is displaced from its original location and transported either to a new location or back to the original location .
a depression which is part of a planetary crust ,  is of geographic scale ,  and is partially or completely enclosed .
a material transport process during which one or more environmental materials are transported by the action of wind .
sediment which has been transported through the marine water column ,  settling on the seafloor .
a material accumulation process during which solid particles are pulled through a water body by gravitation or centrifugal force and which ends when they settle on a solid surface .
a process during which a portion of some environmental material is converted into a different material or a collection of materials .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous mass of snow and / or ice .
a mass of snow .
the temperature of some environmental material .
the temperature of some air .
the intensity of a atmospheric wind .
the porosity of some soil .
the mass density of some soil .
the concentration of a ammonium when measured in soil .
the concentration of a nitrate when measured in soil .
the composition of some soil .
the structure of some soil .
the acidity of some soil .
the temperature of some soil .
the wetness of some soil .
the temperature of some water .
the composition of some water .
the concentration of a oxygen when measured in water .
a hydrological precipitation process with a reduced rate relative to some historical average ,  typically resulting in ecosystemic perturbations .
a process which results in the formation of an island .
an environment which is determined by an anatomical entity .
the concentration of ammonium when measured in water .
the concentration of dioxygen when measured in water .
the concentration of hydrogen sulfide when measured in water .
the concentration of nitrate when measured in water .
the acidity of some water .
a substance ,  usually composed primarily of carbohydrates ,  fats ,  water and / or proteins ,  that can be eaten or drunk by an animal or human being for nutrition or pleasure .
this food product type includes food products which are derived from or produced by a plant .
a food product which is derived from or produced by an animal that has a vertibrae .
any plant food product which ,  typically ,  is constituted by intact parts from one or more annual plants cultivated as field and garden crops in the open and under glass ,  and used almost exclusively for food .
mature ovary of a plant ,  with a fleshy part of the carpel that develops with the seed to attract animals for aid in dispersal .
a process involving the physical transformation of a food source or food product into some derived organic material or food product
invertebrates are animals that neither possess nor develop a vertebral column  ( commonly known as a backbone or spine )  ,  derived from the notochord .
a multicellular eukaryotic heterotrophic organism within the kingdom animalia .
a food product not including meat and animal tissue products  ( such as gelatin or animal - derived rennet )  .
"peeling" is the process of removing the outer covering ,  layer or skin from a fruit ,  vegetable ,  or plant or animal  ( such as a shrimp )  .
any form of whole or milled grain ,  prepared grain product or starch containing product derived from non - grain sources .
food product prepared by milling a grain or by producing flour ,  meal or grits from a non - grain source such as beans ,  starchy roots or tubers .
vegetables in all forms except where a use - related product type descriptior  ( such as *prepared food product* or *snack food* )  takes precedence .
fruits and vegetables in all forms .
nuts in all forms ,  including nut butters and pastes .
food group having common consumption ,  functional or manufacturing characteristics ,  e .g .
a food product type is a class of food products that is differentiated by its food composition ,  processing and / or consumption characteristics .
food and drugs ,  title 21 ,  code of federal regulations .
mammals  ( from latin mamma "breast" )  are vertebrate animals constituting the class mammalia ,  and characterized by the presence of mammary glands which in females produce milk for feeding  ( nursing )  their young ,  a neocortex  ( a region of the brain )  ,  fur or hair ,  and three middle ear bones .
a legume  is a plant or its fruit or seed in the family *fabaceae*  ( or *leguminosae* )  .
a vertebrate animal is any species of organism within the subphylum vertebrata  ( chordates with backbones )  .
a multicellular eukaryote organism of the kingdom plantae .
the soybean or soya bean  ( glycine max )  is a species of legume native to east asia ,  widely grown for its edible bean ,  which has numerous uses .
a bean plant is one of several genera of the flowering plant family fabaceae ,  which has seed pods ,  seeds ,  and / or leaf material used for human or animal food .
anatomical part of the plant or animal from which the food product or its major ingredient is derived ,  e .g . ,  *leaf* ,  *root or tuber* ,  *organ meat* ,  *milk* or *egg* ;  it also includes components of parts ,  such as *cream* ,  and extracts ,  concentrates or isolates ,  such as *protein extract* or *sugar* .
the main propagative part of a plant ,  especially the kernel of a grain or nut .
the fleshy fruit of any plant .
anatomical part of a plant ,  such as fruit ,  seed ,  pod ,  leaf ,  stem or flower as well as the whole plant .
the hard ,  central part of an apple ,  pear ,  etc . ,  that contains the seeds  ( source: webster's ) 
the rind or skin of fruit
the part of a flowering plant that typically contains the embryo with its protective coat and stored food and that can develop into a new plant under the proper conditions ;  fertilised and mature ovule  ( source: webster's )  .
used to specifically characterize a food product based on the treatment or processes applied to the product or any indexed ingredient .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
the activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
a measurement unit label is as a label that is part of a scalar measurement datum and denotes a unit of measure .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define  the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label
software is a plan specification composed of a series of instructions that can be  interpreted by or directly executed by a processing unit .
a quality of an information bearer that imparts the information content
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
a scalar measurement datum is a measurement datum that is composed of two parts ,  numerals and a unit label .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a dot plot is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where each data point is represented by a single dot placed on coordinates corresponding to data point values in particular dimensions .
a diagram that presents one or more tuples of information by mapping those tuples in to a two dimensional space in a non arbitrary way .
a plan specification which describes the inputs and output of mathematical functions as well as workflow of execution for achieving an predefined objective .
the curation status of the term .
a data format specification is the information content borne by the document published defining the specification .
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
an image is an affine projection to a two dimensional surface ,  of measurements of some quality of an entity or entities repeated at regular intervals across a spatial range ,  where the measurements are represented as color and luminosity on the projected on surface .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
a material entity in which a concretization of an information content entity inheres .
a histogram is a report graph which is a statistical description of a distribution in terms of occurrence frequencies of different event classes .
a heatmap is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where the values taken by a variable ( s )  are shown as colors in a two - dimensional map .
a dendrogram is a report graph which is a tree diagram frequently used to illustrate the arrangement of the clusters produced by a clustering algorithm .
a scatterplot is a graph which uses cartesian coordinates to display values for two variables for a set of data .
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
an information content entity consisting of a two dimensional arrangement of information content entities such that the arrangement itself is about something .
a figure that expresses one or more propositions
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measurement of length quality
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measurement of mass quality
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measuring a temporal interval
a planned process in which a document is created or added to by including the specified input in it .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a regulatory role involved with making and / or enforcing relevant legislation and governmental orders
biological_feature_identification_objective is an objective role carried out by the proposition defining the aim of a study designed to examine or characterize a particular biological feature .
a role which inheres in material entities and is realized in the processes of making ,  enforcing or being defined by legislation or orders issued by a governmental body .
a role realized through the process of supplying materials such as animal subjects ,  reagents or other materials used in an investigation .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class prediction data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned class labels .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a planned process that consists of parts: planning ,  study design execution ,  documentation and which produce conclusion ( s )  .
a role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in an assay in which data is generated about the bearer of the evaluant role
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
a role borne by a material entity that is gained during a specimen collection process and that can be realized by use of the specimen in an investigation
an intervention design is a study design in which a controlled process applied to the subjects  ( the intervention )  serves as the independent variable manipulated by the experimentalist .
a population is a collection of individuals from the same taxonomic class living ,  counted or sampled at a particular site or in a particular area
a role borne by an entity and that is realized in a process that is part of an investigation in which an objective is achieved .
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
organism_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize a biological feature monitored at the level of the organism ,  e .g .
a plan specification which has sufficient level of detail and quantitative information to communicate it between investigation agents ,  so that different investigation agents will reliably be able to independently reproduce the process .
is a process with the objective to place a material entity bearing the 'material to be added role' into a material bearing the 'target of material addition role' .
material to be added role is a protocol participant role realized by a material which is added into a material bearing the target of material addition role in a material addition process
a planned process in which data gathered in an investigation is evaluated in the context of existing knowledge with the objective to generate more general conclusions or to conclude that the data does not allow one to draw general conclusion
a process of creating or modifying a plan specification
an averaging objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to perform mean calculations on the input of the data transformation .
is the specification of an objective to add a material into a target material .
an objective specification to determine a specified type of information about an evaluated entity  ( the material entity bearing evaluant role ) 
target of material addition role is a role realized by an entity into which a material is added in a material addition process
a regulatory agency is a organization that has responsibility over or for  the legislation  ( acts and regulations )  for a given sector of the government .
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
manufacturing is a process with the intent to produce a processed material which will have a function for future use .
is the objective to manufacture a material of a certain function  ( device ) 
a planned process that carries out a study design
manufacturer role is a role which inheres in a person or organization and which is realized by a manufacturing process .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class discovery data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned discovered class labels .
is a material processing with the objective to combine two or more material entities as input into a single material entity as output .
a planned process with the objective of collecting a specimen .
a class prediction data transformation  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class prediction .
a data item that is produced as the output of a center calculation data transformation and represents the center value of the input data .
a  data item that is produced as the output of an averaging data transformation and represents the average value of the input data .
a objective specification to obtain a material entity for potential use as an input during an investigation .
is an objective to obtain an output material that contains several input materials .
a support vector machine is a data transformation with a class prediction objective based on the construction of a separating hyperplane that maximizes the margin between two data sets of vectors in n - dimensional space .
a decision tree induction objective is a data transformation objective in which a tree - like graph of edges and nodes is created and from which the selection of each branch requires that some type of logical decision is made .
a decision tree building data transformation is a data transformation that has objective decision tree induction .
a software that provides access to more than 100 tools for gene expression analysis ,  proteomics ,  snp analysis and common data processing tasks .
peak matching is a data transformation performed on a dataset of a graph of ordered data points  ( e .g .
a k - nearest neighbors is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  in which an input data object with vector y is assigned to a class label based upon the k closest training data set points to y ;  where k is the largest value that class label is assigned .
a material sample role is a specimen role borne by a material entity that is the output of a material sampling process .
a specimen gathering process with the objective to obtain a specimen that is representative of the input material entity
a material entity that has the material sample role
a cart  ( classification and regression trees )  is a data transformation method for producing a classification or regression model with a tree - based structure .
a directive information entity that is part of a study design .
a data transformation which assesses how the results of a statistical analysis will generalize to an independent data set .
an organization formed with a goal to have its members conduct investigations
a person or organization that has a manufacturer role
the part of the execution of an intervention design study which is varied between two or more subjects in the study
a process that achieves a training objective
is a role which inheres in a person or organization and is realized in in a planned process which provides access to training ,  materials or execution of protocols for an organization or person
a specimen that has been intentionally physically modified .
an objective specification which is fulfilled by the provision of some training .
a label that is part of a categorical datum and that indicates the value of the data item on the categorical scale .
a directive information entity that describes the dose that will be administered to a target
a document with a set of printed or written questions with a choice of answers ,  devised for the purposes of a survey or statistical study .
a material transformation objective aims to create genetically modified organism or cell
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since planting ,  the process of placing a plant in media  ( e .g .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since germination ,  the process consisting of physiological and developmental changes by a seed ,  spore ,  pollen grain  ( microspore )  ,  or zygote that occur after release from dormancy ,  and encompassing events prior to and including the first visible indications of growth .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since sowing ,  the process of placing a seed or spore in some media with the intention to invoke germination .
a time measurement datum that is the result of measurement of age of an organism
an objective specification to generate a population or type of organism within species that have some uniform behavioral ,  morphological ,  physiological ,  or genetic characteristics with similarly bred organisms .
an organism that is bred to have some uniform behavioral ,  morphological ,  physiological ,  or genetic characteristics with similarly bred organisms
a study design in which the pathological condition of a part ,  organ ,  or system of an organism is studied .
a study design that assays differences between multiple strains ,  cultivars ,  serovars ,  isolates ,  lines from organisms of a single species .
a scalar measurement datum that represents the number of events occuring over a time interval
a measurement datum that is the measure of the latitude coordinate of a site .
a measurement datum that is the measure of the longitude coordinate of a site .
an information content entity that is inferred from data .
a value specification that is specifies one category out of a fixed number of nominal categories
a value specification that consists of two parts: a numeral and a unit label
an information content entity that specifies a value within a classification scheme or on a quantitative scale .
an organization that provides funding support for projects such as investigations .
a material entity that has two or more specimens as its parts .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a tumor slide specimen according to the american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  7th edition grading system .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a tumor slide specimen according to the fuhrman nuclear grading system .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a ovarian tumor .
a histologic grade for ovarian tumor that is from a two - tier histological classification of tumors .
a histologic grade for ovarian tumor that is from a histological classification by the world health organization  ( who )  .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colorectal cancer following the rules of the tnm american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  version 7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  version 7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colorectal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colon cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a  pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of the stage of a cancer according to the american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  v7 staging systems .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of the stage of a gynecologic cancer according to the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics  ( figo )  staging systems .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the figo classification system .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of a participant's performance status  ( general well - being and activities of daily life )  .
a performance status value specification designed by the eastern cooperative oncology group to assess disease progression and its affect on the daily living abilities of the patient .
a performance status value specification designed for classifying patients 16 years of age or older by their functional impairment .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
a planned process that produces output data from input data .
is a data transformation :  leave - one - out cross - validation  ( loocv )  involves using a single observation from the original sample as the validation data ,  and the remaining observations as the training data .
a k - means clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  which takes as input a collection of objects  ( represented as points in multidimensional space )  and which partitions them into a specified number k of clusters .
a hierarchical clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery objective ,  which takes as input data item and builds a hierarchy of clusters .
a dimensionality reduction is data partitioning which transforms each input m - dimensional vector  ( x_1 ,  x_2 ,   . . . ,  x_m )  into an output n - dimensional vector  ( y_1 ,  y_2 ,   . . . ,  y_n )  ,  where n is smaller than m .
a principal components analysis dimensionality reduction is a dimensionality reduction achieved by applying principal components analysis and by keeping low - order principal components and excluding higher - order ones .
an planned process that creates images ,  diagrams or animations from the input data .
an objective specification to transformation input data into output data
an averaging data transformation is a data transformation that has objective averaging .
a partitioning data transformation is a data transformation that has objective partitioning .
a partitioning objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to generate a collection of disjoint non - empty subsets whose union equals a non - empty input set .
a class discovery data transformation  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class discovery .
a center calculation objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to calculate the center of an input data set .
a class discovery objective  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to organize input data   ( typically vectors of attributes )  into classes ,  where the number of classes and their specifications are not known a priori .
a class prediction objective  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to create a predictor from training data through a machine learning technique .
a center calculation data transformation is a data transformation that has objective of center calculation .
a cross validation objective is a data transformation objective in which the aim is to partition a sample of data into subsets such that the analysis is initially performed on a single subset ,  while the other subset ( s )  are retained for subsequent use in confirming and validating the initial analysis .
a data visualization which has input of a clustered data set and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
a pool of specimens is a mixture of a population of samples which have been gathered from one or more sample populations ,  obtained by the physical process of mixing individual specimens ,  e .g .
a plan specification comprised of protocols  ( which may specify how and what kinds of data will be gathered )  that are executed as part of an investigation and is realized during a study design execution .
a randomized complete block design is_a study design which assigns randomly treatments to block .
latin square design is_a study design which allows in its simpler form controlling 2 levels of nuisance variables  ( also known as blocking variables )  .he 2 nuisance factors are divided into a tabular grid with the property that each row and each column receive each treatment exactly once .
a process by which a substance is intentionally given to an organism resulting in exposure of the organism to that substance .
a material that is added to another one in a material combination process
a material entity into which another is being added in a material combinatino process
a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
the totality of all processes through which a given disease instance is realized .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's scalar absolute value of the rate of change of the bearer's position .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
a composite chromatic quality composed of hue ,  saturation and intensity parts .
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's orientation in space .
a quality that is the extent of space between two entities .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to pressure ,  being broken ,  or pierced
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing or displaying a distinctive feature in type or degree or effect or force .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting repetition of placement of its parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to detect or perceive external stimulation .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical dimension of extension .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer that has mass near a gravitational body .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement which is defined by the angle between the bearer and an axis ,  or the angle between the bearer and another object .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's sensitivity towards a fixed location or value where a change is observed ;  upper limit .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
a quality in which events occur in sequence .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a quality of a single physical entity which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits a state of growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a color that lacks any hues as parts .
an achromatic color of maximum brightness ;  the color of objects that reflect nearly all light of all visible wavelengths .
a color hue with medium wavelength of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between orange and green ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 570 to 590 nanometers .
a hardness quality of being rigid and resistant to pressure .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a horizontal surface without a slope ,  tilt ,  or curvature .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a thickness which is relatively low .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance from one side of an object to another side which is opposite .
a color between white and black colors .
a color consisting of dark orange ,  red ,  of very low intensity .
an optical quality which obtains by virtue of the ability of the bearer to absorb visible light .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being clear ;  not transmitting or reflecting light or radiant energy .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking opacity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to admit the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a physical quality of a liquid inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to internal resistance to flow .
a viscosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having viscosity .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence is exerted by the bearer's mass per unit size .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's capacity to do work .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of force per unit area it exerts .
a physical quality which is equal to the energy transferred by a force to a moving object .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of ratio of the bearer's output to the bearer's input .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's rate of change of momentum .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably higher than its width .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being narrow ,  with the two opposite margins parallel .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a physical object quality which inheres in a single - bearer .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a color consisting of yellow hue and high brightness .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality that is independent of the em wavelength range .
a scalar em radiation quality which obtains by the capacity of the bearer to scatter or reflect radiation .
a reflective quality restricted to a particular wavelength .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a temperature which is relatively high .
a temperature which is relatively low .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
a 2 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's two dimensional extent .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack of distinct morphology .
a length quality which is equal to the length of any straight line segment that passes through the center of a circle and whose endpoints are on the circular boundary .
a density quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence exerted by the bearer's mass on a given area .
a density quality which is equal to the mass exerting an influence on a one - dimensional object .
a density quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence exerted by the bearer's mass on a given volume .
a shape quality that obtains by virtue of the bearer having inward facing edges ;  having a surface or boundary that curves or bulges outward ,  as the exterior of a sphere .
a concentration quality inhering in a medium by virtue of the bearer's tendency to hydronate a specific reference base .
a sensitivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's dependence on oxygen .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's independence on oxygen .
a quality that is equal to the potential energy per unit charge associated with a static  ( time - invariant )  electric field ,  also called the electrostatic potential .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude in respect to a related entity .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an oblique or slanted direction .
a monadic quality of continuant inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being intricate and compounded .
a complexity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being intricate and compounded .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity characterized by particles arranged such that their shape and volume are relatively stable .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity consisting of particles that have neither a defined volume nor defined shape .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's motion characteristic .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to transmit of an entity through a medium .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's downward or backward or inward dimenision .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of osmoles of solute per liter of solution .
a osmolarity which is relatively high .
an elevation which is relatively high .
an elevation which is relatively low .
a viscosity which relatively high .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting complete growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in two dimensions .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to lose an entitity by natural process .
a quality inhering in a plant by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being between evergeen and deciduous .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a conductivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to convey electricity .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing granules .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being confined or restricted to multiple locations .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being covered by a liquid .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing acid  ( hydrogen ions )  .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's participation in movement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being kept below its freezing point .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's layered configuration .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a layered configuration .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing the form of a thin plate sheet or layer .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being free of curves ,  bends ,  or angles .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a behavioral quality inhering ina bearer by virtue of the bearer's unequal distribution of fine motor skill between its left and right hands or feet .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the left hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the right hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism exhibits no overall dominance in the use of right or left hand or foot in the performance of tasks that require one hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being roundish ,  flattish shape ,  possibly with a slightly angled edge .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's surface becoming more extended in a plane .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
an orientation inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement at an angle .
a quality inhering in air by virtue of the partial pressure exerted by the bearer's water vapour content .
the propensity of a material to undergo combustion .
the number of repeated events per unit time ,  occurring in a repeating series .
a material entity that consists of two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids .
a collection of organisms ,  all of the same species ,  that live in the same place .
a community of at least two different species ,  living in a particular area .
a material entity that has as parts two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids of the same species and no members of any other species .
a collection of organisms of the same species whose members are all either genealogically related to each other or have mated with each other .
a collection of organisms that consists of two or more organisms from at least two species .
a material entity that is one or more organisms ,  viruses or viroids .
a plant experimental condition  ( peco:0007359 )  or set of conditions describing the application of an abiotic  ( peco:0007191 )  or biotic plant exposure  ( peco:0007357 )  or the combinatorial application thereof .
an exposure involving growing plants in soil growth media with varying contents .
an exposure involving growing plants in varying textures of soil growth media .
an exposure involving growing plants in a sandy soil growth media .
an exposure involving growing plants in a growth media containing organic matter .
an exposure involving growing plants in a silty soil growth media .
an exposure involving growing plants in a clay soil growth media .
an abiotic plant exposure  ( peco:0007191 )  involving the use of a solid or liquid substrate for growing plants or tissue - cultured plant samples .
a plant exposure  ( peco:0001001 )  involving the application of chemical or non - biological factors .
a plant exposure  ( peco:0001001 )  and / or study type  ( peco:0007231 )  applied to a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  a plant structure  ( po:00090119 )  ,  and / or a plant population as part of an experiment to evaluate the plant response .
a plant structure  ( po:0005679 )  which is a whole organism .
a floral structure primordium  ( po:0025477 )  that is committed to the development of an ovule  ( po:0020003 )  .
a floral structure primordium  ( po:0025477 )  that is committed to the development of a gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  .
a shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  that is the most distal part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  and has as parts a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  and the youngest primordia  ( po:0025127 )  .
an undeveloped shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  which is the organogenic region of the meristem ,  characterized by higher rates of cell division .
a portion of reproductive shoot apical meristem tissue  ( po:0008028 )  that gives rise to the floral organs  ( po:0025395 )  .
a reproductive shoot system development stage  ( po:0025530 )  that has as primary participant a inflorescence  ( po:0009049 )  .
a native plant cell  ( po:0025606 )  synthesizing protoplasm and producing new cells by division and with only a primary cell wall .
a shoot system that is initiated from a shoot .
a bud  ( po:0000055 )  that develops from an axillary bud meristem  ( po:0000232 )  .
an axillary shoot system  ( po:0006343 )  that is part of a stem base  ( po:0008039 )  .
a primordium  ( po:0025127 )  that develops from a root anlagen  ( po:0025433 )  and is committed to the development of a root  ( po:0009005 )  .
a lateral plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  produced by a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is the outer layer of an apical meristem  ( po:0020144 )  ,  or the outer layer of a plant embryo proper  ( po:0000001 )  ,  and gives rise to a portion of epidermis  ( po:0005679 )  .
a shoot - borne shoot system  ( po:0004545 )  that develops from an axillary bud  ( po:0004709 )  .
a plant structure development stage  ( po:0009012 )  that has as primary participant a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  .
a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  that gives rise to the apical growth of reproductive tissues and organs .
obsolete .a young plant derived from a newly germinated seed .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  ,  or a single carpel  ( po:0009030 )  ,  and at maturity may have as parts one or more seeds  ( po:0009010 )  .
a cell which is a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  .
a plant axis  ( po:0025004 )  that lacks shoot axis nodes  ( po:0005004 )  and usually grows indeterminately .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that produces shoot - borne portions of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  and the plant structures  ( po:0009011 )  that arise from them .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that consists predominantly of similarly specialized plant cells  ( po:0009002 )  of one or more types .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that is a functional unit ,  is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  and includes portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types that derive from a common developmental path .
a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  that participates in the plant embryo stage  ( po:0007631 )  .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a plant ovule  ( po:0020003 )  and has as parts a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  enclosed in a seed coat  ( po:0009088 )  .
a plant anatomical entity  ( po:0025131 )  that is ,  or was ,  part of a plant ,  or was derived from a part of a plant .
a stage in the life of a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  during which the plant structure undergoes developmental processes .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  in which plant cells  ( po:0009002 )  have retained their embryonic characteristics ,  or have reverted to them secondarily ,  and that divide to produce new cells that can undergo differentiation to form mature tissues ,  i .e .
a determinate reproductive shoot system  ( po:0025082 )  that has as part at least one carpel  ( po:0009030 )  or at least one stamen  ( po:0009029 )  and does not contain any other determinate shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  as a part .
a shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  that is the primary axis of a plant .
a reproductive shoot system  ( po:0025082 )  that has as parts all of the shoot axes  ( po:0025029 )  and flowers  ( po:0009046 ;  must have two or more )  distal to the most distal leaf  ( po:0009025 )  .
a bract  ( po:0009055 )  subtending a branch of the inflorescence  ( po:0009049 )  or borne on the inflorescence axis  ( po:0020122 )  below any branch  ( po:0025073 )  or flower  ( po:0009046 )  .
a phyllome that subtends a reproductive structure .
a collective phyllome structure  ( po:0025023 )  composed all of the carpels  ( po:0009030 )  in a flower  ( po:0009046 )  .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  that is the outer layer of a pericarp  ( po:0009084 )  .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  that is the middle layer of a pericarp  ( po:0009084 )  .
a plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  that has as parts a nucellus  ( po:0020020 )  in which a female gametophyte  ( po:0025279 )  is located ,  one or two integuments  ( po:0020021 )  ,  and a funicle  ( po:0020006 )  .
a maximal portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  located at a shoot apex  ( po:0000037 )  or root tip  ( po:0000025 )  .
a shoot system meristem  ( po:0006079 )  formed at the apex of the shoot axis  ( po:0025029 )  ,  including those originating from an axillary bud meristem  ( po:0000232 )  .
a cardinal part of multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025498 )  that is a proper part of a plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  and includes portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types .
an axial plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  .
a collective plant structure  ( po:0025497 )  that is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  and is composed of two or more adjacent plant organs  ( po:0009008 )  and the associated portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that consists of two or more phyllomes  ( po:0006001 )  originating from the same node or from one or more adjacent nodes with compressed shoot internodes  ( po:0005005 )  .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that produces root meristems  ( po:0006085 )  ,  the plant structures  ( po:0009011 )  that arise from them and the parts thereof .
a native plant cell  ( po:0025606 )  that is part of a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  .
a plant axis  ( po:0025004 )  that is part of a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  .
a phyllome  ( po:0006001 )  that is not associated with a reproductive structure .
a cardinal organ part  ( po:0025001 )  that is elongated and sub - cylindrical to cylindrical and supports another cardinal organ part .
a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  in the sporophytic phase that has as part at least one sporangium  ( po:0025094 )  .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that is part of an plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that has as parts protoderm  ( po:0006210 )  and sub - epidermal meristematic tissue and is committed to the development of a particular plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  .
a primordium  ( po:0025127 )  that develops from a phyllome anlagen  ( po:0025430 )  and is part of a shoot apex  ( po:0000037 )  and is committed to the development of a phyllome  ( po:0006001 )  .
an anatomical entity that is or was part of a plant .
a shoot apex that has as part a reproductive shoot apical meristem .
a portion of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  that is part of a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  .
a maximal whole plant development stage .
a plant structure development stage  ( po:0009012 )  that has as primary participant a collective plant structure  ( po:0025497 )  .
a plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  that is part of a flower  ( po:0009046 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is part of a peripheral zone  ( po:0000225 )  of a shoot apical meristem  ( po:0020148 )  and will give rise to a phyllome primordium  ( po:0025128 )  .
a portion of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  that is committed to the development of a root primordium  ( po:0005029 )  .
a root  ( po:0009005 )  that develops from a tuberous root  ( po:0025523 )  and is further radially enlarged for storage .
a primordium  ( po:0025127 )  that is committed to the development of a floral organ  ( po:0025395 )  and is part of a reproductive shoot apex  ( po:0025222 )  .
a phyllome anlagen  ( po:0025430 )  that will give rise to a bract primordium  ( po:0025487 )  and is part of a peripheral zone  ( po:000225 )  of a reproductive shoot apical meristem  ( po:0008028 )  .
a phyllome primordium  ( po:0025487 )  that is committed to the development of a flower bract  ( po:0009055 )  .
a bract primordium  ( po:0025128 )  is committed to the development of an inflorescence bract  ( po:0009054 )  .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that has as parts two or more portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single structural unit demarcated by primarily bona - fide boundaries from other structural units of different types .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  and includes two or more adjacent plant organs  ( po:0009008 )  or adjacent cardinal organ parts  ( po:0025001 )  ,  along with any associated portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that is a proper part of a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  and includes portions of plant tissues  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types .
a plant axis  ( po:0025004 )  that is radially enlarged .
a root  ( po:0009005 )  that is radially enlarged relative to other lateral roots  ( po:0020121 )  or shoot - borne roots  ( po:0000042 )  on the same plant ,  but not as enlarged as a tuberous root tuber  ( po:0025476 )  .
a collective plant organ structure development stage  ( po:0025338 )  that begins with the onset of the plant organ development stage  ( po:0025339 )  and ends with either gametophyte senescent stage  ( po:0025343 )  or sporophyte senescent stage  ( po:0007017 )  or death .
a shoot system development stage  ( po:0025527 )  that has as primary participant a bud  ( po:0009006 )  .
a shoot system development stage  ( po:0025527 )  that has as primary participant a reproductive shoot system  ( po:0025082 )  .
a plant cell  ( po:0009002 )  that is either part of a multicellular whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  'in vivo' or a unicellular organism 'in natura'  ( i .e .
a whole plant development stage  ( po:0007033 )  that has as primary participant a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  during the interval between fertilization  ( or apogamy )  and death .
a fruit  ( po:0009001 )  which develops from a carpel  ( po:0009030 )  and at maturity comprises a dry exocarp  ( po:0009085 )  ,  dry mesocarp  ( po:0009087 )  ,  and dry endocarp  ( po:0009086 )  that dehisce along two fruit valves  ( po:0000033 )  .
a fruit  ( po:0009001 )  which develops from a gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  and at maturity comprises a dry exocarp  ( po:0009085 )  ,  dry mesocarp  ( po:0009087 )  ,  and dry endocarp  ( po:0009086 )  that are fused to a seed coat  ( po:0009088 )  .
a fruit  ( po:0009001 )  which at maturity comprises a fleshy endocarp  ( po:0009086 )  ,  fleshy mesocarp  ( po:0009087 )  ,  and fleshy exocarp  ( po:0009085 )  .
a berry fruit  ( po:0030108 )  which develops from a superior gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  and at maturity comprises a thickened exocarp  ( po:0009085 )  ,  thickened mesocarp  ( po:0009087 )  ,  and endocarp  ( po:0009086 )  ,  and has as parts juice sacs  ( po:0006013 )  on a carpel adaxial epidermis  ( po:0025618 )  .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
anatomical entity that has mass .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a unit of measurement is a standardized quantity of a physical quality .
a unit which is a standard measure of the distance between two points .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of matter / energy of a physical object .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
a unit which is a standard measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in a sample of matter .
a unit which is a standardised quantity of an element or compound with uniform composition .
a unit which is one of a particular measure to which all measures of that type can be related .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of a 2 - dimensional flat surface .
a unit which represents a standard measurement of how much of a given substance there is mixed with another substance .
a density unit which is a standard measure of the mass of a substance in a given volume .
a density unit which is a standard measure of the mass exerting an influence on a given area .
a unit which is a standard measure of the number of rotations in a given time .
a unit which is a standard measure of the volume of a given mass of substance  ( the reciprocal of density )  .
a unit which is a standard measure of the rate of movement .
an area unit which is equal to an area enclosed by a square with sides each 1 meter long .
an area unit which is equal to one ten thousandth of a square meter or 10^ [  - 4 ]  m^ [ 2 ]  .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in kilograms divided by the volume in cubic meters .
an area density unit which is equal to the mass of an object in kilograms divided by the surface area in meters squared .
a rotational frequency unit which is equal to the number complete turn in a period of time that equals to 1 second .
a speed / velocity unit which is equal to the speed of an object traveling 1 meter distance in one second .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of space occupied by any substance ,  whether solid ,  liquid ,  or gas .
a unit which is a standard measure of the number of repetitive actions in a particular time .
a unit which is a standard measure of the work done by a certain force  ( gravitational ,  electric ,  magnetic ,  force of inertia ,  etc )  .
a unit which is a standard measure of the figure or space formed by the junction of two lines or planes .
a unit which is a standard measure of the angle formed by two straight lines in the same plane .
a mass unit density which is equal to mass of an object in kilograms divided by the volume in liters .
a unit which is a standard measure of the influence exerted by some mass .
a density unit which is a standard measure of the mass exerting an influence on a one - dimensional object .
an area density unit which is equal to the mass of an object in kilograms divided by one meter .
a plane angle unit which is equal to 1 / 360 of a full rotation or 1 .7453310^ [  - 2 ]  rad .
a unit which is a standard measure of physical quantity consisting of only a numerical number without any units .
a dimensionless ratio unit which denotes numbers as fractions of 100 .
a dimensionless unit which denotes an amount or magnitude of one quantity relative to another .
a specific volume unit which is equal to one liter volume occupied by one kilogram of a particular substance .
a unit which is a standard measure of the work done per unit charge as a charge is moved between two points in an electric field .
an electric potential difference unit which is equal to the work per unit charge .
an energy unit which is equal to the amount of electrical energy equivalent to a one - watt load drawing power for one hour .
an energy unit which is equal to 1 , 000 watt - hours .
an electric potential difference unit which is equal to one million volts or 10^ [ 6 ]  v .
a unit which is a standard measure of the volume of fluid which passes through a given surface per unit time  .
a unit which represents a standard measurement occurrence of a process per unit time .
an area density unit which is equal to the mass of an object in kilograms divided by the surface area in hectares .
an area density unit which is equal to the mass of an object in tons divided by the surface area in hectares .
a state of being ,  an external or environmental factor or a treatment observed or administered prior to or concurrent with an investigative procedure such as an assessment of a morphological or physiological state or property in a single individual or sample or in a group of individuals or samples ,  especially a state ,  factor or treatment which has the potential to influence the outcome of such an assessment .
