b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
a triazole - based antifungal agent used for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis ,  invasive pulmonary aspergillosis ,  and serious fungal infections caused by scedosporium apiospermum and fusarium spp .
quinolin - 4 ( 1h )  - one bearing cyclopropyl ,  carboxylic acid ,  fluoro and piperazin - 1 - yl substituents at positions 1 ,  3 ,  6 and 7 ,  respectively .
a synthetic fluoroquinolone with broad - spectrum antibacterial activity against most gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria .
an indole that has formula c31h33n3o6s .
a pyrazolo [ 1 , 5 - a ] pyrimidine having a nitrile group at position 3 and a 3 -  ( n - ethylacetamido ) phenyl substituent at the 7 - position .
a pyrimidine 2' , 3' - dideoxyribonucleoside compound having a 3' - azido substituent and thymine as the nucleobase .
a piperazine compound having 1 , 2 - benzothiazol - 3 - yl -  and 2 -  ( 6 - chloro - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 - oxindol - 5 - yl ) ethyl substituents attached to the nitrogen atoms .
an imidazo [ 1 , 2 - a ] pyridine compound having a 4 - tolyl group at the 2 - position ,  an n , n - dimethylcarbamoylmethyl group at the 3 - position and a methyl substituent at the 6 - position .
a 1 , 2 - benzoxazole compound having a sulfamoylmethyl substituent at the 3 - position .
the  ( s , s )  - diastereoisomer of 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 , 5 - benzothiazepin - 4 ( 5h )  - one in which positions 2 and 3 are substituted by 4 - methoxyphenyl and acetoxy ,  respectively ,  while the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is substituted by a 2 -  ( dimethylamino ) ethyl group .
barbituric acid in which the hydrogens at position 5 are substituted by an allyl group and an isobutyl group .
a sulfonamide that consists of n , n - dimethyltryptamine bearing an additional  ( n - methylsulfamoyl ) methyl substituent at position 5 .
the carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of the aryl amino group of n - phenyl - 1 -  ( 2 - phenylethyl ) piperidin - 4 - amine with propanoic acid .
phosphoric acid in which one of the hydroxy groups is replaced by a carboxylic acid group .
any amide of aniline .
benzoic acid carrying an acetoxy group at the 2 - position .
an optically active form of dopa having l - configuration .
compounds having the structure rsr  ( r = / = h )  .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
codeine is an alkaloid found in the opium poppy ,  papaver somniferum var .
a amino cyclitol glycoside that consists of streptidine having a disaccharyl moiety attached at the 4 - position .
a compound in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: r2c=o  ( neither r may be h )  .
any member of the group of substituted penams containing two methyl substituents at position 2 ,  a carboxylate substituent at position 3 and a carboxamido group at position 6 .
a 2' - deoxycytidine having geminal fluoro substituents in the 2' - position .
cortisol is a corticosteroid hormone or glucocorticoid produced by zona fasciculata of the adrenal cortex ,  which is a part of the adrenal gland .
any of a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics produced by fermentation of some micromonospora spp .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
a penicillin in which the substituent at position 6 of the penam ring is a phenylacetamido group .
a compound having the structure rc#n ;  thus a c - substituted derivative of hydrocyanic acid ,  hc#n .
any aminopurine having the amino substituent at the 2 - position .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a nitrogen atom ,  thus creating a c - n bond .
any of basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom  ( but not excluding those of animal origin )  .
an alcohol containing an amino functional group in addition to the alcohol - defining hydroxy group .
any purine having at least one amino substituent .
compounds containing the group  - n3 ,  and salts of hydrazoic acid ,  hn3 .
any member of the wide class of molecules that share the core azobenzene structure ,  comprising two phenyl rings linked by a n=n double bond ,  which may have different functional groups extending from the rings .
pyrimidine - 2 , 4 , 6 ( 1h , 3h , 5h )  - trione  ( barbituric acid )  and derivatives .
an organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring fused to an imidazole ring .
benzenoid aromatic compounds containing two phenyl or substituted - phenyl groups which are joined together by a single bond .
an ester of carbamic acid .
a class of beta - lactam antibiotics differing from the penicillins in having a 6 - membered ,  rather than a 5 - membered ,  side ring .
a carbotricyclic compound comprising 5 , 6 , 7 , 9 - tetrahydrobenzo [ a ] heptalene having four methoxy substituents at the 1 -  ,  2 -  ,  3 -  and 10 - positions as well as an oxo group at the 9 - position and an acetamido group at the 7 - position .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
salts and c - organyl derivatives of hydrogen cyanide ,  hc#n .
a polyol consisting of a cycloalkane containing at least three hydroxy groups ,  each attached to a different ring carbon atom .
either one of a pair of heterocyclic organic compounds comprising three carbon atoms and two nitrogen atoms arranged in a ring .
any terpenoid having a c20 skeleton ,  derived from geranylgeranyl phosphate .
compounds containing at least one furan ring .
glucocorticoids are a class of steroid hormones that regulate a variety of physiological processes ,  in particular control of the concentration of glucose in blood .
a glycosyl compound resulting from the attachment of a glycosyl group to a non - acyl group ro -  ,  which itself may be derived from a saccharide and chalcogen replacements thereof  ( rs -  ,  rse -  )  .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
a homodetic cyclic peptide is a cyclic peptide in which the ring consists solely of amino - acid residues in peptide linkages .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
a five - membered organic heterocycle containing two nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 ,  or any of its derivatives ;  compounds containing an imidazole skeleton .
any compound containing an indole skeleton .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any lipid formally derived from isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  ,  the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule .
a benzopyridine with the nitrogen of the pyridine moiety in position 2 .
cyclic amides of amino carboxylic acids ,  having a 1 - azacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or analogues having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
any cyclic carboxylic ester containing a 1 - oxacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or an analogue having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
any molecule that contains a small number  ( usually 2 to 10 )  amino - acid residues connected by peptide linkages .
a compound ror  ( where r is not h )  .
any compound that has an aldehydic or ketonic group as well as a carboxylic acid group in the same molecule .
hp ( =o )  ( oh ) 2   ( phosphonic acid )  and its p - substituted derivatives .
an adamantane that has formula c10h17n .
a compound that contains three or more hydroxyl groups .
derivatives of oxoacids rne ( =o ) oh in which the hydroxy group is replaced by an amino group and the oxo group is replaced by =nr .
any compound containing purine as part of its structure .
a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds each of which contains a benzene ring ortho fused to carbons 2 and 3 of a pyridine ring .
a 1 - benzofuran that has formula c25h29i2no3 .
a tricyclic antidepressant that has formula c20h23n .
a fully substituted dialkyl 1 , 4 - dihydropyridine - 3 , 5 - dicarboxylate derivative ,  which is used for the treatment of hypertension ,  chronic stable angina and confirmed or suspected vasospastic angina .
any steroid that act as hormone .
any natural product or related compound formally derived from isoprene units .
a tertiary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has three other carbon atoms attached to it .
any oxacycle having an oxolane  ( tetrahydrofuran )  skeleton .
a 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole compound having a 3 , 5 - bis ( 2 - cyano - 2 - propyl ) benzyl group at the 1 - position .
tryptamine and its substitution derivatives .
a group of indole - indoline dimers which are alkaloids obtained from the vinca genus of plants .
a penicillin compound having a 6beta -  ( phenoxyacetyl ) amino side chain .
a trimethylxanthine that has formula c8h10n4o2 .
a platinum - containing anticancer drug that interacts with ,  and forms cross - links between ,  dna and proteins .
a amino cyclitol glycoside that is kanamycin b lacking the 3 - hydroxy substituent from the 2 , 6 - diaminoglucose ring .
a monocarboxylic acid amide derived from a fatty acid .
3 - aminopropane - 1 , 2 - diol in which the hydrogen of the primary hydoxy is substituted by a 4 -  [ 2 -  ( cyclopropylmethoxy ) ethyl ] phenyl group and one of the hydrogens attached to the amino group is substituted by isopropyl .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
a carboxamide that has formula c18h14f4n2o4s .
a platinum coordination entity that has formula c6h12n2o4pt .
an indole alkaloid that has formula c32h40brn5o5 .
a platinum coordination entity that has formula c6h14n2 .c2o4 .pt .
a propanone that has formula c13h18clno .
an azaspiro compound that has formula c21h31n5o2 .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by a hydrocarbyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
an oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a cyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a compound having one atom as the only common member of two rings .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
an aliphatic compound having a carbocyclic ring structure which may be saturated or unsaturated ,  but may not be a benzenoid or other aromatic system .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a p - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
a capsaicinoid that has formula c18h27no3 .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
nucleosides are ribosyl or deoxyribosyl derivatives of the pyrimidine or purine bases adenine ,  guanine ,  xanthine ,  thymine ,  cytosine ,  and uracil .
compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
an amine in which the amino group is linked directly to an aromatic system .
a polyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an amide of a sulfonic acid rs ( =o ) 2nr'2 .
compounds having the structure rc ( =nr ) nr2 .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing  - oh  by  - nrnr2  ( r groups are commonly h )  .
a hydrazide consisting of hydrazine carrying one or more carboacyl groups .
compounds of structure rssr in which r and r' are organic groups .
an addition compound contains two or more simpler compounds that can be packed in a definite ratio into a crystal .
an addition compound that contains water in weak chemical combination with another compound .
an azaspiro compound is a spiro compound in which at least one of the cyclic components is a nitrogen heterocyle .
a beta - lactam is a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a four - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
a secondary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has two other carbon atoms attached to it .
an oxoacid containing two carboxy groups .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
a compound having the nitro group ,   - no2  ( free valence on nitrogen )  ,  which may be attached to carbon ,  nitrogen  ( as in nitramines )  ,  or oxygen  ( as in nitrates )  ,  among other elements  ( in the absence of specification ,  c - nitro compounds are usually implied )  .
a compound having the nitro group  (  - no2 )  attached to carbon atom .
a compound based on a five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton containing one n and one o atom .
compounds having the structure r2s=o  ( r = / = h )  .
compounds having the structure rs ( =o ) 2r  ( r = / = h )  .
any monocarboxylic acid having at least one additional oxo functional group .
natural and synthetic antibiotics containing the 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 .2 .0 ] heptan - 7 - one structure ,  generally assumed to have the 5r configuration unless otherwise specified .
compounds having a fully conjugated cyclic dione structure ,  such as that of benzoquinones ,  derived from aromatic compounds by conversion of an even number of  - ch= groups into  - c ( =o )  -  groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds  ( polycyclic and heterocyclic analogues are included )  .
a monoester of a dicarboxylic acid .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
a cyclic compound in which a carbonyl group in a ring is bonded to one or two skeletal heteroatoms .
compounds in which an acyclic carbonyl group is bonded to one or two acyclic skeletal heteroatoms ,  except nitrogen ,  halogen ,  or halogenoid atoms ,  or to a heteroatom of a ring or ring system .
an organochlorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chlorine bond .
a compound containing at least one carbon - halogen bond .
any of a class of steroid hormones that are produced in the adrenal cortex .
a bicyclic compound in which all the ring atoms are carbon .
o - organyl oximes r2c=nor'  ( r' = / = h )  .
two or more cyclic systems  ( single rings or fused systems )  which are directly joined to each other by double or single bonds are named ring assemblies when the number of such direct ring junctions is one less than the number of cyclic systems involved .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
an organoiodine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - iodine bond .
an organofluorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - fluorine bond .
an anthraquinone substituted with one or more hydroxy groups .
derivatives of diazene with the general structure r - n=n - r' .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
compounds having two beta - haloalkyl groups bound to a nitrogen atom ,  as in  ( x - c2h2 - c2h2 ) 2nr .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
a thienopyridine that has formula c16h16clno2s .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
a gold coordination entity that has formula c4h5auo4s .
an alkaloid containing an indole skeleton .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid that has formula c33h35fn2o5 .
5 - methylidene - 5h - dibenzo [ a , d ] cycloheptene in which one of the hydrogens of the methylidene group is substituted by a 2 -  ( dimethylamino ) ethyl group .
a bicyclic structure comprising a pyrazole ring fused to a hydroxy - substituted pyrimidine ring .
a delta - lactone that has formula c24h36o5 .
a cyclic nonribosomal peptide of eleven amino acids ;  an immunosuppressant drug widely used in post - allogeneic organ transplant to reduce the activity of the patient's immune system ,  and therefore the risk of organ rejection .
a tertiary amino compound that has formula c26h29no .
a fluorinated steroid that has formula c22h29fo5 .
diphenylsulfone in which the hydrogen atom at the 4 position of each of the phenyl groups is substituted by an amino group .
an acyclic desferrioxamine that has formula c25h48n6o8 .
a dipeptide that has formula c21h31n3o5 .
a pteridine that has formula c20h22n8o5 .
an urea that has formula ch4n2o2 .
a phenol resulting from the formal substitution of the hydrogen at the 2 position of 1 , 3 - diisopropylbenzene by a hydroxy group .
a diether compound consisting of pentane - 1 , 5 - diol with both hydroxyls bearing 4 - amidinophenyl groups .
a tetracyclic diterpenoid isolated originally from the bark of the pacific yew tree ,  taxus brevifolia .
a triazole that has formula c13h12f2n6o .
the sulfonamide resulting from formal condensation of the sulfo group of 4 - ethoxy - 3 -  ( 5 - methyl - 7 - propylimidazo [ 5 , 1 - f ]  [ 1 , 2 , 4 ] triazin - 4 ( 1h )  - one - 2 - yl ) benzenesulfonic acid and the secondary amino group of 4 - ethylpiperazine .
an organofluorine compound that has formula c4h3fn2o2 .
ganciclovir is an antiviral drug used to treat or prevent aids - related cytomegalovirus infections .
an organic disulfide that has formula c10h20n2s4 .
compounds based on a fused 1 , 2 -  or 1 , 3 - oxazole and benzene bicyclic ring skeleton .
compounds in which an acyclic carbonyl group is bonded to one or two nitrogen atoms of a ring or ring system .
any molecule that contains two amino - acid residues connected by peptide linkages .
organic compounds having two ether functional groups .
a family of aromatic fatty amides produced as secondary metabolites by chilli peppers .
compounds containing an anthracene skeleton .
a dibenzoazepine that has formula c19h24n2 .
any carboxylic ester where the carboxylic acid component is acetic acid .
a dibenzoazepine that is 10 , 11 - dihydro - 5h - dibenzo [ b , f ] azepine which is substituted by chlorine at position 3 and in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a 3 -  ( dimethylamino ) propyl group .
a dibenzoazepine that has formula c18h22n2 .
a cephalosporin bearing  ( 1 - methylpyrrolidinium - 1 - yl ) methyl and  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetamido groups at positions 3 and 7 ,  respectively ,  of the cephem skeleton .
a dicarboxylic acid monoester that is ethyl 4 - phenylbutanoate in which a hydrogen alpha to the carboxy group is substituted by the amino group of l - alanyl - l - proline  ( s - configuration )  .
a vinca alkaloid with a norvinblastine skeleton .
compounds of structure rssr' .
ethane - 1 , 2 - diamine in which one hydrogen attached to each of the nitrogens is sutstituted by a 1 - hydroxybutan - 2 - yl group  ( s , s - configuration )  .
a phosphonic acid consisting of  ( ethane - 1 , 1 - diyl ) bis ( phosphonic acid )  having a hydroxy substituent at the 1 - position .
a purine 2' , 3' - dideoxyribonucleoside that is inosine in which the hydroxy groups at both the 2' and the 3' positions on the sugar moiety have been replaced by hydrogen .
a beta - d - glucoside that has formula c29h32o13 .
a hydroxyphenylalanine that has formula c9h11no4 .
androsta - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 17 - dione in which the hydrogens at position 6 are replaced by a double bond to a methylene group .a selective inhibitor of the aromatase  ( oestrogen synthase )  system ,  it is used in the treatment of advanced breast cancer .
an indole - 3 - acetic acid that has formula c19h16clno4 .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a phenethylamine alkaloid that has formula c13h17n .
a 3 - oxo steroid that has formula c22h30o5 .
any compound containing the thiocarbonyl group ,  c=s .
a thiocarbonyl compound that has formula c4h6n2s .
a hydroxyanthraquinone that has formula c22h28n4o6 .
an alkyl sulfide that has formula c35h36clno3s .
a steroid which is substituted with one or more fluorine atoms in any position .
a natural or synthetic analogue of the hormones secreted by the adrenal gland .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an organyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
an organofluorine compound that has formula c4h4fn3o .
a benzenoid aromatic compound that has formula c17h18f3no .
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement and their substitution derivatives .
quinones containing an acene fused ring system .
compounds containing an adamantane skeleton .
a 5 - methoxyvalerophenone o -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) oxime that has formula c15h21f3n2o2 .
cyclopropane and its derivatives formed by substitution .
compounds based on a fused 1 , 2 - oxazole and benzene bicyclic ring skeleton ,  with the o atom positioned adjacent to one of the positions of ring fusion .
compounds based on a fused 1 , 2 - oxazole and benzene bicyclic ring skeleton .
compounds containing a mono - unsaturated furan ring skeleton .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) r ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ketonic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
a terpenoid having a c20 tetracyclic skeleton .
any organic heterotricyclic compound based on a skeleton comprised of an oxazine ring fused onto a quinoline system .
compounds containing an ifosfamide skeleton .
an imidazolidine containing one or more oxo groups .
oxazoles in which the n and o atoms are adjacent .
a compound composed of a central piperidine structure with hydroxy and p - chlorophenyl substituents at position 4 ;  and an n - linked p - fluorobutyrophenone moiety .
2' - deoxyadenosine in which the hydrogen at position 2 on the purine ring has been substituted by chlorine .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
a nitrogen mustard alkylating agent used in the treatment of cancer
a compound having the structure rr'c ( or'' )  ( or''' )   ( r'' ,  r''' = / = h )  and thus diethers of geminal diols .
an acetal of formula r2c ( or ) 2  ( r = / = h )  derived from a ketone by replacement of the oxo group by two hydrocarbyloxy groups .
a ketal in the molecule of which the ketal carbon and one or both oxygen atoms thereon are members of a ring .
the trihydrate form of  docetaxel .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
a nucleoside having a purine base covalently bonded to a deoxyribose .
a carbohydrazide obtained by formal condensation between pyridine - 4 - carboxylic acid and hydrazine .
a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid that has formula c6h5no2 .
a dioxolane that has formula c35h38cl2n8o4 .
an analogue of a nucleoside ,  being an n - glycosyl compound in which the nitrogen - containing moiety is a modified nucleotide base .
the piperidinecarboxamide obtained by the formal condensation of n - propylpipecolic acid and 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
a racemate is an equimolar mixture of a pair of enantiomers .
a mixture composed of two or more diastereoisomers  ( stereoisomers not related as mirror images )  .
a glucoside in which the anomeric carbon of the glycosidic bond is in a beta configuration
a hydrate that is the monohydrate form of tacrolimus .
any compound that has a nucleobase as a part .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton .
any hydroxy carboxylic acid which contains a hydroxy group located beta -  to the carboxylic acid group .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a monosaccharide .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a hexose .
a hexose derivative that is formally obtained from a ketohexose .
a 1 - ribosyltriazole that is the 1 - ribofuranosyl derivative of 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole - 3 - carboxamide .
a nucleoside analogue obtained by formal dehydration across positions 2 and 3 of thymidine .
an n - glycosyl compound that consists of any triazole having a glycosyl residue attached at position 1 .
an optically active form of ofloxacin having  ( s )  - configuration ;  an inhibitor of bacterial topoisomerase iv and dna gyrase
a racemate composed of  (  +  )  -  ( 11r , 2's )  -  and  (  -  )  -  ( 11s , 2'r )  - enantiomers of mefloquine .
a diastereoisomeric mixture composed of approximately equal amounts of a double racemate of four of the sixteen possible diastereoisomers of methyl  ( 13e )  - 11 , 16 - dihydroxy - 16 - methyl - 9 - oxoprost - 13 - en - 1 - oate that is racemic prostaglandin e1 which is lacking the hydroxy group at position 15 ,  but which has an additional hydroxy group at position 16 .
a quinolone that consits of 4 - oxo - 1 , 4 - dihydroquinoline - 3 - carboxylic acid bearing a cyclopropyl substituent at position 1 ,  a fluoro substitiuent at position 6 ,  a  ( 4as , 7as )  - octahydro - 6h - pyrrolo [ 3 , 4 - b ] pyridin - 6 - yl group at position 7 and a methoxy substituent at position 8 .
a diamine that is ergoline in which the beta - hydrogen at position 8 is replaced by a  ( methylthio ) methyl group and the hydrogen attached to the piperidine nitrogen  ( position 6 )  is replaced by a propyl group .
a carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation or  ( s )  - 2 - methylbutyric acid with the hydroxy group adjacent to the ring junction of  ( 3r , 5r )  - 7 -  [  ( 1s , 2s , 6s , 8s , 8ar )  - 6 , 8 - dihydroxy - 2 - methyl - 1 , 2 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 8a - hexahydronaphthalen - 1 - yl ]  - 3 , 5 - dihydroxyheptanoic acid .
a ketone that is 3 -  ( propylamino ) propane - 1 , 2 - diol in which the hydrogen of the primary hydroxy group is replaced by a 2 -  ( 3 - phenylpropanoyl ) phenyl group .
a sulfonamide that is n - phenylmethanesulfonamide in which the phenyl group is sustituted at position 4 by a 1 - hydroxy - 2 -  ( isopropylamino ) ethyl group .
1h - imidazole substituted at c - 1 by a  ( 2 - ethylsulfonyl ) ethyl group ,  at c - 2 by a methyl group and at c - 5 by a nitro group .
a pyridine - 2 - sulfonamide substituted at c - 5 by a trifluoromethyl group and at the sulfonamide nitrogen by a dihydropyrone - containing m - tolyl substituent .
2 , 1 , 3 - benzothiadiazole substituted at c - 4 by a delta ( 1 )  - imidazolin - 2 - ylamino group and at c - 4 by a chloro group .
a hexose derivative that is 2 , 3:4 , 5 - di - o - isopropylidene - beta - d - fructopyranose in which the hydroxy group has been converted to the corresponding sulfamate ester .
a pyranoindolizinoquinoline used as an antineoplastic agent .
any organic heterobicyclic compound containing ortho - fused pyrrolidine and piperidine rings .
a sulfoxide that has formula c16h14f3n3o2s .
an isoxazole that has formula c12h9f3n2o2 .
an oligopeptide comprising pyroglutamyl ,  histidyl ,  tryptophyl ,  seryl ,  tyrosyl ,  d - leucyl ,  leucyl ,  arginyl ,  and n - ethylprolinamide residues joined in sequence .
a biphenylyltetrazole where a 1 , 1' - biphenyl group is attached at the 5 - position and has an additional trisubstituted imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl group at the 4' - position
a 17alpha - hydroxy steroid that has formula c22h30o3 .
an aromatic amine comprising salicylic acid having an amino group at the 5 - position .
a guanidine that has formula c4h11n5 .
a 6 - methylprednisolone that has formula c22h30o5 .
imidazole substituted at c - 1 ,   - 2 and  - 5 with 2 - hydroxyethyl ,  nitro and methyl groups respectively .
a tricyclic antidepressant that has formula c19h21n .
a synthetic fluoroquinolone antibacterial agent that inhibits the supercoiling activity of bacterial dna gyrase ,  halting dna replication .
a sulfoxide having 3 - methoxybenzimidazol - 3 - yl and 4 - methoxy - 3 , 5 - dimethylpyridin - 2 - ylmethyl groups attached to the sulfur .
a benzimidazole that has formula c16h15f2n3o4s .
a benzodioxole that consists of piperidine bearing 1 , 3 - benzodioxol - 5 - yloxy ) methyl and 4 - fluorophenyl substituents at positions 3 and 4 respectively ;  the  ( 3s , 4r )  - diastereomer .
a imidazolidine - 2 , 4 - dione that consists of hydantoin bearing two phenyl substituents at position 5 .
a thiazolidenedione that has formula c19h20n2o3s .
a member of the class of benzothiazoles that is 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 - tetrahydro - 1 , 3 - benzothiazole in which the hydrogens at the 2 and 6 - pro - s - positions are substituted by amino and propylamino groups ,  respectively .
a 21 - hydroxy steroid that has formula c21h28o5 .
a pyrimidinethione consisting of uracil in which the 2 - oxo group is substituted by a thio group and the hydrogen at position 6 is substituted by a propyl group .
a tricyclic antidepressant that has formula c19h21n .
a sulfoxide that has formula c18h21n3o3s .
a cyclopentapyrrole that has formula c23h32n2o5 .
an indolone that has formula c16h24n2o .
a fatty acid ester comprising a dihydroxyheptanoic acid unit condensed into a lactone ;  a partially reduced naphthalene structure ;  and a 2 , 2 - dimethylbutyric acyl substituent at c17 .
an azobenzene consisting of diphenyldiazene having a carboxy substituent at the 4 - position ,  a hydroxy substituent at the 3 - position and a 2 - pyridylaminosulphonyl substituent at the 4' - position .
a thienopyridine that has formula c14h14clns .
a dibenzoazepine that has formula c20h26n2 .
a cyclohexanol that has formula c17h27no2 .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
a cell that will develop into a neuron often after a migration phase .
a relatively undifferentiated cell that retains the ability to divide and proliferate throughout life to provide progenitor cells that can differentiate into specialized cells .
neural stem cell is characterized as an undifferentiated cell that originates from the neuroectoderm and has the capacity both to perpetually self - renew without differentiating and to generate multiple types of lineage - restricted progenitors .
a stem cell that can give rise to multiple lineages of cells .
a stem cell from which all cells of the body can form .
a precursor cell with a limited number of potential fates .
any neuron having a sensory function ;  an afferent neuron conveying sensory impulses .
ectoderm destined to be nervous tissue .
a pigment cell is a cell that contains pigment granules .
a cell specialized to detect and transduce light .
a cell whose function is determined by the generation or the reception of an electric signal .
a cell of the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell that is specialised to accumulate a particular substance ( s )  .
a cell of the outer layer of a blastula that gives rise to the ectoderm after gastrulation .
a cell whose function is determined by its response to an electric signal .
a cell that initiates an electrical signal and passes that signal to another cell .
a neuron which conveys sensory information centrally from the periphery .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
a cell that is part of the nervous system .
a cell of the embryo .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
the role of a material entity to prevent ,  diagnose ,  treat ,  or study disease and / or its effects
a material entity  ( 1 )  containing at least one scattered molecular aggregate as part  ( the active ingredient )  and  ( 2 )  that is the bearer of a clinical drug role
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor activity .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the rate or extent of the tumor necrosis factor - mediated signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter dopamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter dopamine .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of atp hydrolysis by an atpase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any intracellular steroid hormone receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any intracellular steroid hormone receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a catecholamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that modulates the rate of atp hydrolysis by an atpase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - protein coupled receptor protein signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucosylceramide .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of catecholamines .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency or rate of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of a transcription factor ,  any factor involved in the initiation or regulation of transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: nucleotide 3' , 5' - cyclic phosphate  +  h2o = nucleotide 5' - phosphate .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into a neuron or glial cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into a neuron or glial cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of the catecholamine neurotransmitter dopamine into a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of dopamine into a presynaptic neuron or glial cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of the monoamine neurotransmitter serotonin into a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of serotonin into a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of norepinephrine into a cell .
any process that prevents the activation of the directed movement of norepinephrine into a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of catecholamine neurotransmitters into a neuron or glial cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of catecholamine neurotransmitters into a neuron or glial cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the androgen receptor signaling pathway .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the androgen receptor signaling pathway .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of sphingolipid biosynthesis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of sphingolipid biosynthesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a ceramide biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a ceramide biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolyzing )  activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolyzing )  activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of opioid receptor signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of androgen receptor activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of androgen receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydroxymethylglutaryl - coa reductase  ( nadph )  activity .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a pathological bodily process that occurs after a medical intervention .
medical intervention is a planned process that has the goal of diagnosing ,  preventing or relieving illness or injury .
a medical intervention where a patient is administered with a drug
a peripheral neuropathy ae which has an outcome of sensory neuropathy that involves damage to nerves of the peripheral nervous system .
a peripheral neuropathy ae which is caused by a damage to motor neurons
a peripheral neuropathy ae which is characterized by damage to more than one nerve
an neuropathy ae that results in a damage to the peripheral nervous system  ( pns ,  outside the brain and spinal cord )  ,  the vast communication network that transmits information from the brain and the spinal cord  ( the central nervous system )  to every other part of the body .
a sensory neuropathy ae that shows a sensation of tingling ,  pricking ,  or numbness of a person's skin with no apparent long - term physical effect .
a nervous system ae that shows a damage to or disease affecting the nerves .
an ae that occurs in nervous system .
a peripheral neuropathy ae which has an outcome of neuritis ,   the local accumulation of fluid ,  plasma proteins ,  and leukocytes in the brain and / or spinal cord
a nervous system ae that alters the normal activity of the nervous system due to exposure to neurotoxins ,  causes damage to nervous tissue
a peripheral sensory neuropathy ae that results in the patient losing the ability to move or feel .
a sensory neuropathy ae that has an outcome of damaged nerves outside the brain and spinal cord
carpal tunnel syndrome ae is a peripheral neuropathy ae that is a median entrapment neuropathy that causes paresthesia ,  pain ,  numbness ,  and other symptoms in the distribution of the median nerve due to its compression at the wrist in the carpal tunnel .
an optic neuropahty ae which shows an infarction of the optic disk which presents as painless vision loss
a peripheral neuropathy ae which shows an damage or abnormality to the nerves in the eyes .
an optic neuropathy ae characterized by optic disc swelling ,  peripapillary and macular hard exudates ,  and vitreous cells .
an optic neuropathy ae characterized by vision loss ,  optic disc swelling ,  flame hemorrhages ,  and cotton - wool exudates .
a type of anterior ischemic optic neuropathy ae that presents primarily with vision loss ,  especially upon wakening ,  and sectorial disc edema .
a peripheral neuropathy ae that shows a combination of axonal and demyelinating neuropathy .
a peripheral sensory neuropathy ae that shows neuropathy in many sensory nerves at one time
a peripheral neuropathy ae that results from the loss of the myelin sheath on peripheral nerves roughly evenly distributed on both sides of the body
a neuropathy ae that shows nerve damage and occurs in a patient with diabetes
a nervous system ae that is an umbrella term referring to conditions relating to the nervous system ,  including loss of sensation and paralysis
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a material entity that consists of all the molecules of a specific type that are located in some bounded region and which is part of a more massive material entity that has parts that are other such aggregates
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a neuropathy adverse event that is associated with a drug .
a bodily process that is clinically abnormal .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
a quality in which events occur in sequence .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
an organ that is capable of detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of smell .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a stage that is part of the embryo stage .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
end of the life of an organism .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity [ caro ]  .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
an organ that detects light .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
sensory system responsible for the perception of spatial orientation and auditory stimuli .
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions ,  that is demarcated by anatomical lines or points on the external or internal surfaces of anatomical structures .
organism at the cleavage stage .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
anatomical structure ,  which consists of a specific set of the members of  ( predominantly )  one organ or organ part subclass interconnected by zones of continuity or body substances ;  is demarcated from other subdivisions of the same organ system by one or more zones of continuity or anatomical lines ;  together with other subdivisions of the same organ system ,  it constitutes an organ system .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
