an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a type of information that is used to support an assertion .
a type of evidence resulting from manipulation of variables in order to discover cause and effect .
a type of author statement in which the author makes a statement that is not supported by information in that particular publication ,  but rather can be traced to a reference cited by that publication .
an evidence type that is based on an assertion by the author of a paper ,  which is read by a curator .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of an mhc alpha chain and ,  in most cases ,  either an mhc class ii beta chain or an invariant beta2 - microglobin chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide ,  lipid ,  or polysaccharide antigen .
a stable macromolecular complex composed  ( only )  of two or more polypeptide subunits along with any covalently attached molecules  ( such as lipid anchors or oligosaccharide )  or non - protein prosthetic groups  ( such as nucleotides or metal ions )  .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
the region of a chromosome that codes for mhc molecules .
a set of mhc alleles that is frequently inherited together .
a pattern of antibody binding associated with certain material entities
a serotype identifying a specific group of mhc molecules .
a protein complex that is a member of an mhc haplotype .
a protein complex that is a member of an mhc serotype .
a protein complex in which one or both chains has at least one amino acid residue altered from the wild type sequence .
evidence about the restriction of some mhc protein complex that is bound to some epitope .
an inferred mhc restriction determined by an author's statement that the restriction of the epitope was already known prior to their publication .
an inferred mhc restriction determined by a positive outcome in a mhc ligand assay .
an inferred mhc restriction determined by a positive outcome in a t cell assay where the antigen presenting cell  ( or tetramer / multimer )  expressed only a single mhc molecule .
an inferred mhc restriction determined by the reduction or loss of a positive outcome in a t cell assay when subsets of mhc bearing apc were blocked .
an inferred mhc restriction determined by a positive outcome in a t cell assay when apc expressing specific mhc were used and a negative response with apc not expressing the specific mhc .
an inferred mhc restriction determined by a positive outcome in a t cell assay using specific t cell subsets as effector cells or by a negative outcome when a spceific subset is blocked by antibodies .
an inferred mhc restriction determined by a positive outcome in a t cell assay where the response  measured is indicative of a certain t cell subset .
an inferred mhc restriction determined by the association of a positive outcome in a t cell assay with the presence of certain alleles within the responding population .
an inferred mhc restriction determined by predictive analysis of the epitope - mhc interaction ,  based upon the sequence or structure of the epitope without experimental assay .
the process of material entities forming complexes .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material entity bearing the epitope role
is the process in which an adaptive immune receptor binds to a material entity  ( realizing its disposition )  .
an immune epitope assay that detects t cell epitope recognition .
a process of an mhc molecule binding to an entity playing the role of epitope to create an mhc:epitope complex which is then bound by a tcr molecule .
an assay that detects the binding of an epitope to an adaptive immune receptor or a immune response process resulting from such a binding event
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna .
a protein that is a translation product of the human b2m gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a nucleic acid sequence region that is part of a genome and represents a specified location or region on a chromosome or other genomic element .
a region of the genome which is co - inherited as the result of the lack of historic recombination within it .
a haplotype is one of a set of coexisting sequence variants of a haplotype block .
