an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
an organic hydroxy compound that consists of benzene bearing a single hydroxy substituent .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
liposaccharide natural compounds consisting of a trisaccharide repeating unit  ( two heptose units and octulosonic acid )  with oligosaccharide side chains and 3 - hydroxytetradecanoic acid units  ( they are a major constituent of the cell walls of gram - negative bacteria )  .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
the simplest aldehyde .
a amino cyclitol glycoside that consists of streptidine having a disaccharyl moiety attached at the 4 - position .
a disaccharide ,  found most notably in milk ,  that consists of d - galactose and d - glucose fragments bonded through a beta - 1 -  > 4 glycosidic linkage .
any of a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics produced by fermentation of some micromonospora spp .
sucrose is a disaccharide formed by glucose and fructose units joined by an acetal oxygen bridge from hemiacetal of glucose to the hemiketal of the fructose .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
a  dipeptide composed of methyl l - phenylalaninate and l - aspartic acid joined by a peptide linkage .
a 1 , 2 - benzisothiazole having a keto - group at the 3 - position and two oxo substituents at the 1 - position .
a member of the aluminium hydroxides that has formula h3alo3 .
a  ( 1 -  > 6 )  - alpha - d - glucan which has extra branching consisting of  ( 1 -  > 2 )  ,   ( 1 -  > 3 )  or  ( 1 -  > 4 )  linkages .
a polymer composed of peg - ylated sorbitan ,  where the total number of poly ( ethylene glycol )  units is 20  ( w  +  x  +  y  +  z = 20 )  and a single terminal is capped by a dodecanoyl group .
a polymer composed of peg - ylated sorbitan ,  where the total number of poly ( ethylene glycol )  units is 20  ( w  +  x  +  y  +  z = 20 )  and a single terminal is capped by an oleoyl group .
an organic sodium salt that is the monosodium salt of glutamic acid .
a broad - spectrum highly toxic antibiotic or mixture of antibiotics produced by a streptomyces  ( streptomyces fradiae )  and used medically especially to treat local infections .
an alkylmercury compound  ( approximately 49% mercury by weight )  used as an antiseptic and antifungal agent .
a disease that is the consequence of the presence of pathogenic microbial agents ,  including pathogenic viruses ,  pathogenic bacteria ,  fungi ,  protozoa ,  multicellular parasites ,  and aberrant proteins known as prions .
a bacterial infectious disease that results_in infection by bacteria as a result of their presence or activity within the normal ,  healthy host ,  and their intrinsic virulence is ,  in part ,  a necessary consequence of their need to reproduce and spread .
a cancer that is classified by the type of cell from which it is derived .
a disease by infectious agent that results_in infection ,  has_material_basis_in bacteria .
a brucellosis that involves an infection caused by brucella suis  [ ncbitaxon:29461 ]  in swine and humans .
a primary bacterial infectious disease that is caused by the bacteria of the genus brucella ,  when humans come in contact with contaminated animals or animal products or ingestion of infected food products .
a parasitic protozoa infectious disease characterized as a vector - borne infectious disease caused by the presence of protozoan parasites of the genus plasmodium in the red blood cells ,  transmitted from an infected to an uninfected individual by the bite of anopheline mosquitoes ,  and characterized by periodic attacks of chills and fever that coincide with mass destruction of blood cells and the release of toxic substances by the parasite at the end of each reproductive cycle .
a disease by infectious agent that is carried out by a parasite which by definition is a pathogen that simultaneously injures and derives sustenance from its host .
a malaria described as a severe form of the disease caused by a parasite plasmodium falciparum ,  which is marked by irrregular recurrence of paroxysms and prolonged or continuous fever .
a brucellosis that involves an infection caused by brucella melitensis  [ ncbitaxon:29459 ]  in cattle ,  goats ,  sheep and humans .
a brucellosis that involves an infection caused by brucella abortus  [ ncbitaxon:235 ]  in cattle and humans .
a disease that is characterized by abnormally rapid cell division .
a disease of cellular proliferation that is malignant and primary ,  characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation ,  local cell invasion and metastasis .
a cell type cancer that has_material_basis_in abnormally proliferating cells derived_from melanocytes which are found in skin ,  the bowel and the eye .
a parasitic infectious disease that is caused by parasitic protozoa which are microorganisms classified as unicellular eukaryotes .
a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
a viral infectious disease that results_in destruction of immune system ,  leading to life - threatening opportunistic infections and cancers ,  has_material_basis_in human immunodeficiency virus 1 or has_material_basis_in human immunodeficiency virus 2 ,  which are transmitted_by sexual contact ,  transmitted_by transfer of blood ,  semen ,  vaginal fluid ,  pre - ejaculate ,  or breast milk ,  transmitted_by congenital method ,  and transmitted_by contaminated needles .
a viral infectious disease that results_in infection ,  located_in respiratory tract ,  has_material_basis_in influenzavirus a ,  has_material_basis_in influenzavirus b ,  or has_material_basis_in influenzavirus c ,  which are transmitted_by droplet spread of oronasal secretions during coughing ,  sneezing ,  or talking from an infected person .
a disease by infectious agent that results_in infection ,  has_material_basis_in viruses .
an immune response based on directed amplification of specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for enhanced response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
an immune response taking place in mucosal tissues ,  including those of the intestinal tract ,  nasal and upper respiratory tract ,  and genital tract .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
a stable macromolecular complex composed  ( only )  of two or more polypeptide subunits along with any covalently attached molecules  ( such as lipid anchors or oligosaccharide )  or non - protein prosthetic groups  ( such as nucleotides or metal ions )  .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of an igg isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igd isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the ige isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the iga isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and sometimes complexed with j chain or j chain and secretory component .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igm isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and in its circulating form complexed with j chain in polymeric forms .
a directive information entity that specifies what should happen if the trigger condition is fulfilled
a measurement unit label is as a label that is part of a scalar measurement datum and denotes a unit of measure .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define  the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label
a report that is published in a journal
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
a scalar measurement datum is a measurement datum that is composed of two parts ,  numerals and a unit label .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a plan specification which describes the inputs and output of mathematical functions as well as workflow of execution for achieving an predefined objective .
the curation status of the term .
a document assembled by an author for the purpose of providing information for the audience .
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
a material entity with a pathogenic disposition .
a biological macromolecule produced by a pathogen and that has a virulence factor disposition .
a pathological bodily process that occurs after a medical intervention .
an adverse event that occurs after a vaccination .
a contraindication is a disposition that increases the risk of harm involved in using a particular drug ,  carrying out a medical procedure ,  or engaging in a particular activity such that the risk of harm exceeds a threshold .
an adverse event that is induced by a vaccination .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a regulatory role involved with making and / or enforcing relevant legislation and governmental orders
regulation - assigned role is a regulatory role defined by legislation or governmental orders
a role which inheres in material entities and is realized in the processes of making ,  enforcing or being defined by legislation or orders issued by a governmental body .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in an assay in which data is generated about the bearer of the evaluant role
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a role inhering in a biological or chemical entity that is intended to be applied in a scientific technique to participate  ( or have molecular components that participate )  in a chemical reaction that facilitates the generation of data about some entity distinct from the bearer ,  or the generation of some specified material output distinct from the bearer .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
a population is a collection of individuals from the same taxonomic class living ,  counted or sampled at a particular site or in a particular area
a role that inheres in a vaccine component and plays an antigen role ,  i .e . ,  it is introducd into an immune - competent organism to cause an immune response
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
a plan specification which has sufficient level of detail and quantitative information to communicate it between investigation agents ,  so that different investigation agents will reliably be able to independently reproduce the process .
is a process with the objective to place a material entity bearing the 'material to be added role' into a material bearing the 'target of material addition role' .
is the injection of a material entity  ( bearing the administered substance role )  into the peritoneum  ( bearing the target role )  of an organism using a syringe
material to be added role is a protocol participant role realized by a material which is added into a material bearing the target of material addition role in a material addition process
a transfer function is a function to displace a material from one location to another .
a processed material which is used to introduce or draw fluids from a material entity .
injection is process which aims at introducing a compound or a mixture into a material entity  ( either biological entity or instrument )  by relying on devices such as syringe or injector connection ,  attached or forced into a vascular system  ( veins of an organism or tubes of a machine )  or in a tissue .
the administration of a substance into the peritoneum of an organism
is the specification of an objective to add a material into a target material .
an objective specification to determine a specified type of information about an evaluated entity  ( the material entity bearing evaluant role ) 
target of material addition role is a role realized by an entity into which a material is added in a material addition process
a regulatory agency is a organization that has responsibility over or for  the legislation  ( acts and regulations )  for a given sector of the government .
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
a material entity that consists of all the molecules of a specific type that are located in some bounded region and which is part of a more massive material entity that has parts that are other such aggregates
is a material processing with the objective to combine two or more material entities as input into a single material entity as output .
is a process with the objective to prepare a liquid solution of one or more chemicals at desired concentrations .
is an objective to obtain an output material that contains several input materials .
a pathogen challenge is the administration of a live pathogenic organism to a host
pathogen role is a role which inheres in an organism and realized in the process of disease course in the organism bearing host role caused by the organism bearing pathogen role
host role is a role played by an organism and realized by providing nourishment ,  shelter or a means of reproduction to another organism within the organism playing the host role
a directive information entity that is part of a study design .
dependent variable specification is part of a study design .
an objective specification maintains some or all of the qualities of a material over time .
a process with that achieves the objective to maintain some or all of the characteristics of an input material over time
a material entity that is designed to perform a function in a scientific investigation ,  but is not a reagent .
a directive information entity that describes the dose that will be administered to a target
a measurement datum that measures the quantity of something that may be administered to an organism or that an organism may be exposed to .
an information content entity that specifies a value within a classification scheme or on a quantitative scale .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
phosphate buffered saline  ( abbreviated pbs )  is a buffer solution commonly used in biochemistry .
a planned process that produces output data from input data .
an objective specification to transformation input data into output data
anova or analysis of variance is a data transformation in which a statistical test of whether the means of several groups are all equal .
a material entity  that is made up of at least 2 scattered molecular aggregates ,  one playing the role of solvent and the other one playing the role of solute .
a role which inheres in some molecular entity realized during the process of buffering
solvent role is a role which inheres in a molecular entity capable of ensuring the dissolution of another chemical entity and realized by the process of solvation
solute role is a role played by a chemical entity which is dissolved by another chemical entity  ( the solvent )  when creating a solution
a maintenance process by which material entities that are not actively metabolizing are placed in well identified location and possibly under controlled environment in ad - hoc devices / structures in order to preserve and protect them from decay / alteration and maintain availability
a plan specification comprised of protocols  ( which may specify how and what kinds of data will be gathered )  that are executed as part of an investigation and is realized during a study design execution .
a process by which a substance is intentionally given to an organism resulting in exposure of the organism to that substance .
is a material entity that has the antigen role
any molecule recognized by the adaptive immune receptors?
a gene is a material entity that represents the entire dna sequence required for synthesis of a functional protein or rna molecule .
a gene of an organism of bacteria
a gene of an organism of proteobacteria
a gene of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv
a gene of an organism of brucella melitensis bv .
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv that has a protein - coding gene disposition
a gene of brucella melitensis bv .
a material entity which is clinically abnormal and part of an extended organism .
a bodily process that is clinically abnormal .
the totality of all processes through which a given disease instance is realized .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a quality in which events occur in sequence .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's ability or inability to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's ability to survive and develop normally or the long term survival ability of a given population .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a quality of a single physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of ratio of the bearer's output to the bearer's input .
a physical object quality which inheres in a single - bearer .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
an efficiency quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking efficiency .
an efficiency quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having efficiency .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's pathogenicity .
a biological macromolecule that is composed of amino acids linked in a linear sequence  ( a polypeptide chain )  and is genetically encoded .
a protein that is a translation product of the sod1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
the olfactory organ of vertebrates ,  consisting of nares ,  olfactory epithelia and the structures and skeletal framework of the nasal cavity .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer  ( mesothelium )  and a connective tissue layer .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
a serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity [ vhog , modified ]  .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
a membranous sac in animals that serves as the receptacle of a liquid or contains gas .
a volume unit which is equal to one thousandth of a liter or 10^ [  - 3 ]  l ,  or to 1 cubic centimeter .
'part of organism in vaccine' is a pathogen component in vaccine that contains only a part of the pathogen organism instead of the whole organism .
a vaccine is a processed material with the function that when administered ,  it prevents or ameliorates a disorder in a target organism by inducing or modifying adaptive immune responses specific to the antigens in the vaccine .
a process of administering substance in vivo that involves in adding a vaccine into a host  ( e .g . ,  human )  in vivo with the intent to invoke a protective or therapeutic adaptive immune response .
a vaccine that protects against bacillus anthrax that causes anthrax .
whole organism vaccine that uses killed pathogen organism as its component .
a brucella abortus vaccine that expresses cu / zn sod with dna plasmid pcdna .
a bacterial vaccine vector that uses b . abortus vaccine strain rb51 as the vector .
brucella abortus vaccine rb51 is a brucella abortus vaccine that is licensed in the usa since 1992 .
a live attenuated brucella abortus vaccine that is licensed and used in many countries .
a vaccine that protects against brucella that causes brucellosis in animals and humans .
a vaccine for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by neisseria meningitidis serogroups c and y and haemophilus influenzae type b . menhibrix is approved for use in children 6 weeks of age through 18 months of age .
dna vaccine is a vaccine that is composed of a plasmid vaccine vector  ( a circular double stranded dna molecule )  containing genes encoding one or more proteins of a pathogen .
a vaccinia virus vaccine that is a freeze - dried calf lymph smallpox vaccine ,  specifically ,  dryvax is a live - virus preparation of vaccinia prepared from calf lymph .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection of an adenovirus .
an assay that measures the persistent survival of live vaccine in a host in vivo .
a bacterial vaccine that prevents against escherichia coli infection .
a gene that once deleted ,  would make an attenuated microbe that can be used as a live attenuated vaccine against virulent pathogen .
a lentivirus vaccine vector that uses a hiv strain as the vector
a bacterial vaccine that prevents neisseria meningitidis infection .
ipol ,  poliovirus vaccine inactivated is a sterile suspension of three types of poliovirus: type 1  ( mahoney )  ,  type 2  ( mef - 1 )  ,  and type 3  ( saukett )  .
the jourmal article that mentions a vaccine ,  which was retrieved from pubmed and annotated using vo - sciminner .
the imovax® 9 rabies vaccine is a sterile ,  stable ,  freeze - dried 10 suspension of rabies virus prepared from strain pm - 1503 - 3m .
je - vax is a sterile ,  lyophilized vaccine for subcutaneous use ,  prepared by inoculating mice intracerebrally with japanese encephalitis  ( je )  virus ,  “nakayama - nih” strain .
a bacterial vaccine vector that uses l . moncytogenes as the vector .
a measles - mumps - rubella vaccine that is live attenuated and manufactured by merck & co ,  inc .
a measles - mumps vaccine that is manufactured by merck and used for human .
menactra ,  meningococcal  ( groups a ,  c ,  y and w - 135 )  polysaccharide diphtheria toxoid conjugate vaccine ,  is indicated for active immunization to prevent invasive meningococcal disease caused by neisseria meningitidis serogroups a ,  c ,  y and w - 135 .
a mycobacterium vaccine that protects against mycobacterium tuberculosis .
an influenza vaccine that is similar to fluzone but has high dose .
pedvaxhib is a highly purified capsular polysaccharide  ( polyribosylribitol phosphate or prp )  of haemophilus influenzae type b  ( haemophilus b ,  ross strain )  that is covalently bound to an outer membrane protein complex  ( ompc )  of the b11 strain of neisseria meningitidis serogroup b .
a malaria vaccine that protects against malaria caused by plasmodium falciparum .
a measles - mumps - rubella - vericella vaccine that is live and manufactured by merck & co ,  inc .
a vaccine adjuvant that is formed as a mineral salt .
rabavert rabies vaccine is a sterile ,  freeze - dried vaccine obtained by growing the fixed - virus strain flury low egg passage  ( lep )  in primary cultures of chicken fibroblasts .
a lentivirus vaccine vector that uses a siv strain as the vector
tice bcg for intravesical use ,  is an attenuated ,  live culture preparation of the bacillus of calmette and guerin  ( bcg )  strain of mycobacterium bovis .
typhim vi ,  typhoid vi polysaccharide vaccine ,  for intramuscular use ,  is a sterile solution containing the cell surface vi polysaccharide extracted from salmonella enterica serovar typhi ,  s typhi ty2 strain .
a viral vaccine vector that uses yellow fever vaccine strain 17d as the vector .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with yellow fever virus .
a vaccine organism that is live and attenuated
an aluminum vaccine adjuvant that contains aluminum hydroxide .
an aluminum vaccine adjuvant that is aluminum phosphate .
vaccination frequency is a qualitative term that represents how many times vaccination has occurred .
a mineral salt vaccine adjuvant composed of calcium phosphate .
an emulsion vaccine adjuvant that consists of a water - in - oil emulsion of aqueous antigen in paraffin  ( mineral )  oil of low specific gravity and low viscosity .
a viral vaccine vector that uses an adenovirus as the vector .
a vaccine role that indicates the vaccine being a combination vaccine .
is a freund's emulsfied oil adjuvant that contains inactivated and dried mycobacteria ,  usually mycobacterium tuberculosis  ( the pathogenic agent of tuberculosis )  .
a freud's adjuvant that does not contain the mycobacterial components .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant consisting of cholera toxin  ( ct )  from vibrio cholerae .
a viral vaccine vector that uses an alphavirus as the vector .
a vaccine component role that inheres in a recombinant vaccine vector as a vaccine component .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant that is the p40 particulate fraction isolated from corynebacterium .
an adjuvant role that inheres in a vaccine component which is added as part of a vaccine and induces enhanced adaptive immune response to the vaccine antigen .
antibody titer is a titer of antibody that shows how much antibody an organism has produced that recognizes a particular epitope ,  expressed as the greatest dilution ratio  ( or its reciprocal )  that still gives a positive result .
an organismal quality that indicates an organism  ( e .g . ,  human )  is immunized against a disease .
a bacterial vaccine against an infection with f . tularensis .
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a toxoid vaccine
a brucella abortus gene that has the name sodc and comes from strain 2308 .
a live attenuated vaccine prepraration process that is performed by serial passages in vitro for pathogen attenuation .
a virulence of vaccine organism that shows an avirulent pheontype of the organism as the major component of a vaccine .
a vaccine that targets against a bacterial disease .
a vaccine vector that uses a live bacterium as the vector
a virulence of vaccine organism that shows an attenuated pheontype of the organism as the major component of a vaccine .
a vaccine that prevents or treats cancer .
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a inactivated vaccine
a processed material that is output of the vaccine preparation and part of a vaccine .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant made from bacterial lipopolysaccharide  ( lps )  of gram - negative bacteria .
a vaccine that uses rna ( s )  derived from a pathogen organism .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant formulated to correspond to a component found in a water - soluble extract of cell walls of mycobacteria used in complete freund's adjuvant  ( cfa )  .
an emulsion vaccine adjuvant that contains an organic polymer with some antigenic epitopes which might be shared with other organic polymers acting as immunostimulators .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is an emulsifier called arlacel a .
a microbial derivitive vaccine adjuvant that contains components from killed bordetella pertussis .
a usa licensed vaccine role that inheres ina vaccine approven to be by the us fda to be used for humans in the usa .
conjugate vaccine is vaccine that conjugates / links antigens to the molecules that form the outer coat of disease - causing bacteria to promote an immune response .
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a recombinant vector vaccine
a vaccine contraindication is a contraindication that increases the risks of a vaccination .
a vaccine role that is not licensed or in clinical trial ;  instead ,  it has been experimently approved to induce protection or treatment effect in vivo in at least an experimental animal model .
an immune response detection assay that detects specific antiviral antibodies in a test serum .
an organismal quality of a whole organism vaccine where the whole organism is inactivated / killed and lacks the capability of replication .
a dna vaccine plasmid that uses the plasmid labeled pci .
a vaccine component that is used to dissolve vaccine powder into liquid .
a vaccine component that contains the solid form of all vaccine components .
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a bacterial vaccine
a vaccine prepraration process that is performed by heat inactivation of virulent pathogen .
cfu reduction assay is an assay that measures the reduction of the colony forming units of infected pathogens in vaccine - vaccinated animals compared to nonvaccinated animals .
assay of cfu reduction in spleen is a cfu reduction assay that is measured using the extracted spleen as the tissue for isolation of infected pathogens .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being fit to be eaten .
a quality of edibility that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being suitable for oral ingestion as food ,  drug ,  or vaccine .
vaccine efficacy is an efficacy of a vaccine in induction of protective immune response in vivo or protection against infection of a virulent pathogen .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pgp .lamp - 1 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pes .
sodbft is a live vaccine strain mutant of francisella tularensis with reduced fe - superoxide dismutase gene expression .
a vaccine that targets against a fungus infection .
a live attenuated francisella tularensis vaccine .
vaccine function is a function that inheres in a vaccine that induces protective immune response against a disease .
a viral vaccine vector that uses a herpesvirus as the vector .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of the host to a vaccine .
a processual entity that specifies host response to a vaccine .
a process that specifies host response to a vaccine adjuvant .
a processual entity that specifies host response to a vaccine component .
a process that specifies host response to a vaccine antigen .
a process that specifies host response to a vaccine vector .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with human immunodeficiency virus that causes aids .
kkf24 is a recombinant strain of francisella novicida u112 with iglc mutation  ( f . novicida delta - iglc::ermc )  .
a vaccine additive that stabilizes the vaccine emulsification manufacturing process and makes emulsion of the vaccine easier .
a whole organism vaccine that uses an inativated pathogen organism as its component .
bacterial vaccine that protect against mycoplasma hyopneumoniae infection
a quality of edibility that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being not suitable for oral ingestion .
tertiary vaccination is a vaccination that is performed at the third time in a row .
protozoa are a diverse group of unicellular eukaryotic organisms ,  [ 1 ]  many of which are motile .
a vaccination site that is used for injection of a vaccine .
a b . melitensis vaccine that is recombinant b . melitensis rev .
a spontaneous mutant of the schu s4 strain that protects against virulent f . tularensis infection .
a route of administration that inject the material ( such as vaccines ,  allergens )  directly into a muscle .
rounte of administration that located in nose .
a route of administration that located in the peritoneum .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is pcpp salt .
a viral vaccine vector that uses a lentivirus as the vector .
a licensed human vaccine that is licensed in the usa .
a vaccine that is licensed for commercial use .
a vaccine adjuvant that contains particles made up of concentric lipid membranes containing phospholipids and other lipids in a bilayer configuration separated by aqueous compartments .
a live vaccine that is made from microbes that have been attenuated  ( weakened )  in the laboratory so that they can't cause disease .
a vaccine organism that is live
quaternary vaccination is a vaccination that is performed at the fourth  time in a row .
a vaccine that is used to improve conception .
a live attenuated vaccine prepraration process that is performed by mutation of a gene ( s )  from a virulent pathogen .
a route of administration that is through the membrane covering the muscles and nerves at the back of the eyeball
an oral route of administration that is underneath the tongue .
a vaccine - induced t cell interferon - gramm production that results from the addition of a vaccine adjuvant
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant that is derived from e . coli heat labile toxin lt .
viral vaccine that is used to protect against feline panleukopenia virus infection
vaccine that used for immunizing birds .
bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against leptospira spp .
a campylobacter bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against campylobacter fetus infection
bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against pseudomonas aeruginosa infection
a bordetella bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against bordetella bronchiseptica infection
a b . melitensis vaccine that is composed of live brucella melitensis attenuated mutant delivered using a microsphere delivery system .
a vaccine - induced adjuvant boosted t cell interferon - gramm production that results from the addition of a il - 15 vaccine adjuvant
a vaccine that contains one vaccine for priming and at least one other vaccine for boosting .
a vaccine that contains one dna vaccine for priming and at least one other vaccine for boosting .
pandemrix is an influenza vaccine for influenza pandemics ,  such as the h1n1 2009 flu pandemic colloquially called the swine flu .
a brucella subunit vaccine that uses recombinant brucella melitensis 16m p39 ,  a putative periplasmic binding protein .
panvax is an h1n1 unadjuvanted monovalent vaccine .
route of administration that is located in the vein
a vaccine that protects against some protozoan disease .
a varicella - zoster virus vaccine that is live attenuated .
a vaccine component that originates from an organism such as a pathogen or a modified organism .
a cancer vaccine that is used against melanoma ,  a malignant tumor of melanocytes .
a pneumococcal vaccine that is formed using polyvalent polysaccharides
period of persistence of vaccine induced immune response is a temporal interval during which a vaccine - induced immune response continuously exists .
a vaccine clinical trial that investigates the safety profile of a vaccine in a small group  ( 10 - 50 )  of healthy volunteers .
a vaccine clinical trial that studies vaccine efficacy with a target population  ( numbering 50 - 100 )  .
a vaccine clinical trial that takes the trial to a large - scale safety and efficacy study in a relevant patient population ,  usually in excess of 3 , 000 .
the final stage of vaccine clinical evaluation .
seven f . tularensis proteins including iglc  ( rlm / iglc )  were expressed in recombinant l . monocytogenes  ( rlm )  vaccines .
a subunit nontypeable h . influenzae vaccine that uses hap protein .
a smallpox virus vaccine that uses vaccinia virus
mixed bacterial vaccine  ( mbv ,  coley's toxins )  is a historical ,  vaguely defined preparation of heat - inactivated streptococcus pyogenes and serratia marcescens used as non - specific immunotherapy in the treatment of cancer .
a vaccine component that is composed of a plasmid and used in the generation of a dna vaccine .
a bacterial vaccine against moraxella bovis infection .
a usa licensed vaccine role that indicates the vaccine is for veterinary uses .
vaccine approval process is a processual entity that involves approval of a vaccine .
vaccine candidate role is the role of a material entity in an investigation ,  which has not been experimentally or clinically verified to induce a protection or treatment in vivo in a host organism .
cfu measurement assay is an assay that measures the colony forming unit  ( cfu )  of a bacterium in a specific location  ( e .g . ,  spleen of a mouse )  .
vaccine effectiveness rate is a measurement datum that measues the vaccine effectiveness .
a viral vaccine vector that uses an poxvirus as the vector .
a salmonella vaccine against infection with s . paratyphi ,  which causes paratyphoid fevers .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with parainfluenza 3 virus .
preventive vaccine function is a vaccine function realized by the process of vaccination and leading to induction of an adaptive immune response to the antigens in a vaccine ,  which protects against a specific disorder .
a vaccine that is used for prevention against a disease .
protection efficacy is an efficiency that is associated with protection by a biological product  ( e .g . ,  vaccine )  against a disease .
protective antigen is an antigen that stimulates protective immunity when used in vivo .
an influenza virus vaccine against equine influenza viral infection
a bacterial vaccine against infection with coxiella burnetii which causes q fever
a s . aureus vaccine that uses bacterin as the protective antigen .
a s . aureus vaccine that uses the bacterial phage lysate as the protective antigen .
a mycoplasma gallisepticum vaccine that uses bacterin as the protective antigen
a bacterial vaccine that uses bacterin from a bacterial strain isolated from a herd with a purpose to generate hard - specific vaccine .
an autogenous bacterin vaccine that is prepared for poultry use .
nontypeable haemophilus influenzae  ( nthi )  is a nonencapsulated haemophilus influenzae  ( a gram - negative bacterium )  .
a rabies virus vaccine against rabies in animal
a rabies virus vaccine against rabies in human
a vaccine preparation process that uses recombinant molecular technology to prepare recombinant protein .
a subunit vaccine that is made using a part of whole organism as subunit for vaccine development .
a vaccine that uses a modified virus or bacterium to deliver genes that code for microbial antigens to cells of the body .
a licensed vaccine role that is bears in a licensed human vaccine .
immunization is a processual entity that primes or modifies an adaptivie immune response to some antigens .
active immunization is an immunization process that entails the introduction of a foreign molecule into the body ,  which causes the body itself to generate adaptive immunity against the target .
passive immunization is an immunization process where pre - synthesized elements of the immune system are transferred to an organism so that the body does not need to produce these elements itself .
natural active immunization is an active immunization that occur naturally when a person or animal comes in contact with antigens includeing microbes .
artificial active immunization is an active immunization that occurs when a person or animal is vaccinated with a specific vaccine .
induction of adaptive immune response to antigen is an active immunization process that results in induction of adaptive immune response to some antigens ,  for example ,  in a vaccine .
disorder prevention is a processual entity that prevents a disorder that is the physical basis of a disease .
disorder treatment is a processual entity that leads to treat a disorder that is the physical basis of a disease .
modification of adaptive immune response to antigen is an active immunization process that results in modification of an adaptive immune response to some antigens ,  for example ,  in a therapeutic vaccine .
infection disorder prevention is a process that prevents a disorder that is the physical basis of an infectious disease .
a vaccine role that indicates the vaccine being a combination vaccine .
an organism that is used as part of a vaccine
a canada  licensed vaccine role that indicates the vaccine is for veterinary uses .
a diphtheria vaccine that uses diphtheria toxoid
a viral vaccine against a disease caused by a virus belong to poxviridae .
a pox vaccine for quail pox
a salmonella vaccine against both typhoid caused by s . typhi and paratyphoid caused by s . paratyphi .
a protein from human
a route of administration that is loacted in the hypodermis  ( subcutaneous tissue )  region .
a vaccine that is composed of a purified protein ( s )  or other antigenic determinant ( s )  from a disease - causing organism .
time of survival of live vaccine inside host is a temporal interval during which a live vaccine survives inside a host organism .
a vaccinee that is a human being
a population of human beings who are vaccinated .
a population group that are vaccinated with a specific vaccine
a vaccine that is used for treatment for a disease .
a licensed vaccine role that is bears in a licensed human vaccine .
a titer  ( or titre )  is a measure of concentration .
a vaccine that is designed to immunize against two or more strains of the same microorganism ,  or against two or more microorganisms .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant ,  adamantylamide dipeptide  ( addp )  is the desmuramyl analog of mdp .
a toxin  ( from ancient greek: τοξικόν toxikon )  is a poisonous substance produced within living cells or organisms ;  man - made substances created by artificial processes are thus excluded .
a vaccine containing a toxoid ,  used to protect against toxins produced by certain bacteria .
the therapeutic vaccine function is a function realized by the process of vaccination and leading to induction of an adaptive immune response to the antigens in a vaccine ,  which ameliorates a specific disorder .
a combination vaccine that is used against both bacterial and viral infections .
a bacterial vaccine against vibrio infection
a vaccine that protects against campylobacter bacterial infectioni .
a viral vaccine vector that uses an aav virus as the vector .
vaccination protocol is the protocol of a vaccination procedure .
a vaccine that protects against chlamydia bacterial infection .
a path that is located in gross anatomical part of an organism  ( e .g . ,  human )  and is used for administering a vaccine ,  a drug ,  fluid ,  poison ,  or other substance into the body .
vaccine candidate is a processed material that is designed to prevent or ameliorate a disorder in a target organism by modulating adaptive immune responses in that organism by administrating the vaccine .
vaccine preservative that has thimerosal as part .
h1n1 influenza vaccine is an influenza virus vaccine that is used to vaccinate against h1n1 influenza subtype vaccine .
bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against haemophilus somnus infection
a vaccine component that is chemical substance added to vaccine and enhance and direct immune response to protective antigen .
a vaccine regulatory process that is for vaccine producer to apply for vaccine license .
immunization objective is the specification of an objective to achieve immunization .
a multivalent vaccine that is designed to immunize against at least one bacterial disease and one viral disease .
a bacterial vaccine against infection of bordetella bacterial infection
a bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against aeromonas bacterial infection
vaccine preparation is a manufacturing process to produce a vaccine .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against mycobacterium bacterial infection .
vaccine dose is a dose of vaccine specified by the vaccine manufacturer ,  distributor ,  or a regulatory agent .
a processual entity by which a vaccine is tested clinically for safety and effectiveness .
a vaccine that uses whole organism as its component
an orthopoxvirus vaccine vector that uses vaccinia virus as the vector
a bacterial vaccine that protects against yersinia bacterial infection .
a bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against edwardsiella bacterial infection
a bacterial vaccine against mycoplasma bacterial infection
a canada licensed vaccine role that indicates the vaccine is used for human
a vaccine that targets against a viral disease .
a vaccine vector that uses a virus as the vector .
bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against haemophilus parasuis infection
a virulence of vaccine that shows a virulent pheontype of the organism as the major component of a vaccine .
a biological sex datum that represents the biological sex of an animal  ( including human )  as being male .
animal model of vaccine research is a role played by some organism  ( e .g . ,  mouse )  that is used for vaccine research .
bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against pasteurella multocida infection
animal model of vaccine research is a role played by some organism  ( e .g . ,  mouse )  that is used for vaccine research in the laboratory .
a vaccine antigen role that inheres in a vaccine antigen which is capable of inducing protective immunity .
a vaccine role that indicates the vaccine being a dna vaccine .
a vaccine role that indicates the vaccine being a subunit vaccine .
a vaccine role that indicates the vaccine being a conjugate vaccine .
survival assessment is an assay that measures the occurence of death events in one or more organisms that are monitored over time .
a vaccine used to prevent infection by haemophilus influenzae type b  ( hib )  bacteria .
an e . coli vaccine that uses subunit antigen type .
licensed vaccine role is a regulation - assigned role that indicates that a vaccine obtains official approval for commercial production and selling on the market .
vaccine in clinical trial role is a regulation - assigned role that inheres in a vaccine that is currently in clinical trial .
vaccine induced immue response mediated hrough a body fluid
a b . melitensis vaccine that is recombinant b . melitensis rev .
a licensed vaccine with license for human use .
a vaccine role that indicates the vaccine being a recombinant vector vaccine .
bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against flavobacterium columnare infection
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infection with clostridium spp .
a clostridium vaccine that protects against infection with clostridium tetani that causes tenanus .
combination vaccine is a vaccine that induces protection against multiple infectious diseases or several different serotypes of the same organism .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with influenza virus .
a vaccine with license that is used for cattle .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with hepatitis b virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with hepatitis a virus .
a bacteria vaccine that prevents against yersinia pestis infection that causes plague .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with rabies virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with smallpox virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with measles virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with mumps virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with rotavirus .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infection with haemophilus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with poliovirus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with japanese encephalitis virus .
a vaccine against human papillomavirus infection
a herpesvirus vaccine that is used against varicella - zoster virus infection .
a salmonella vaccine against typhoid fever  ( or called typoid )  ,  caused by salmonella enterica enterica ,  serovar typhi .
a streptococcal vaccine that is used against s . pneumoniae infection ,  which causes pneumococcal diseases .
a  live attenuated shigella flexneri 2a vaccine with specific deletion mutations in virg ,  sen ,  set ,  and guaba .
a stable attenuated shigella sonnei strain with virg mutation .
a processual entity that regulates vaccine - related processes ,  such as vaccine trial ,  vaccine license application .
a processual entity of transporting vaccine from one place to another place .
a recombinant vector vaccine role that inheres in a bacterium that carries a vaccine antigen for development of a particular vaccine
a recombinant vector vaccine role that inheres in a virus that carries a vaccine antigen for development of a particular vaccine
a vaccine residual that is from antibiotics used during the manufacture process .
a vaccine regulation process for vaccine clinical trials .
a vaccination process that occurs at the first time to a host organization in a specified period .
a viral vaccine that is inactivated
a licensed human vaccine that is licensed in canada
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a dna vaccine
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a conjugate vaccine
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a subunit vaccine
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a live attenuated vaccine
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a rna vaccine
a brucella vaccine against infection wtih b . suis
an orally administrable brucellosis vaccine that was was developed in china .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with dengue virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with ebola virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with herpesvirus .
a vaccine role that indicates the vaccine being a rna vaccine .
a measles - mumps vaccine that also protects against infection with  rubella virus .
a corynebacterium diphtheriae vaccine that also protect against infection with clostridium tetani .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infection with corynebacterium diphtheriae that causes diphtheria .
a measles virus vaccine that also protects against infection with  mumps virus .
a measles - mumps - rubella vaccine that also protects against varicella .
a malaria vaccine that comprises recombinant plasmodium falciparum  ( p . falciparum )  blood - stage proteins msp1 ,  msp2 and resa ,  formulated with the adjuvant montanide isa 720 .
a vaccine that protects against diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  pertussis ,  and poliovirus .
a vaccine used to prevent infections of diphtheria ,  tetanus  ( lockjaw )  ,  pertussis  ( whooping cough )  ,  hepatitis b ,  and poliovirus .
a vaccine that protects against ,  diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  pertussis  ( whooping cough )  ,  polio ,  and haemophilus influenzae type b .
a viral vaccine against hepatitis b virus and at the same time against bacterial h . influenzae serotype b .
a vaccine that contains dna and modified vaccinia virus ankara  ( mva )  encoding thrombospondin - related adhesion protein  ( trap )  with a multiple - epitope string me  ( me - trap )  .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with papillomavirus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with parainfluenza virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with pseudorabies virus .
a viral vaccine that prevents against infection with simian immunodeficiency virus .
a viral vaccine that protects against west nile virus infection .
a viral vaccine that prevents infection with respiratory syncytial virus .
a vaccine that is used in conjunction with diagnostic tests to differentiate vaccinated animals from carrier animals .
a vaccine that is edible and derived from an edible plant .
acellular vaccine is a subunit vaccine that is produced by using only the antigenic part of the disease causing organism .
a particulate antigen delivery system ,  iscom is a vaccine adjuvant that consists of an assembly of antigens in multimeric form and presents an antigen to induce specific immunologic responses .
a vaccine that is used to prevent conception .
a vaccine that prevents or treats alzheimer disease .
plasmodium vaccine is a vaccine that prevents against plasmodium species causing malaria .
a protozoan vaccine that prevents against infection with leishmania .
a bacterial vaccine that prevents infection with vibrio cholera .
a vaccine that prevents lyme disease caused by borrelia burgdorferi .
a bacterial vaccine that prevents against bordetella pertussis infection that causes pertussis or whooping cough .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infection with pseudomonas .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against diseases caused by various species of rickettsia .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infections by various salmonella species .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infections with shigella species .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infection with staphylococcus .
bcg vaccine is a mycobacterium tuberculosis vaccine that is a live attenuated strain of mycobacterium bovis  ( bacillus calmette guerin ;  bcg )  .
a bacterial vaccine that prevents streptococcal infections .
rts , s / as02a is a pre - erythrocytic vaccine candidate based on plasmodium falciparum circumsporozoite surface antigen .
a recombinant e . coli - expressed protein based upon the apical membrane antigen - 1  ( ama - 1 )  of the 3d7 clone formulated with the as02a adjuvant .
an ebola virus vaccine that is composed of vee replicon particle  ( vrp )  encoding ebola virus np protein .
an ebola virus vaccine that is composed of vee replicon particle  ( vrp )  encoding ebola virus vp24 protein .
an ebola virus vaccine that is composed of vee replicon particle  ( vrp )  encoding ebola virus vp30 protein .
an ebola virus vaccine that is composed of vee replicon particle  ( vrp )  encoding ebola virus vp35 protein .
an ebola virus vaccine that is composed of vee replicon particle  ( vrp )  encoding ebola virus vp40 protein .
a dna vaccine that encodes for a secreted form of ebola virus gp protein .
a vaccine combination that includes a dna vaccine and a recombinant adenovirus ad5 expressing the same codon - optimized siv gag gene .
a recombinant adenovirus  ( ad5 )  expressing the codon - optimized siv gag gene .
a vaccine combination that includes a dna vaccine and a replication - defective chimeric ad5 vector with the ad35 fiber  ( ad5 / 35 )  that express the same codon - optimized siv gag gene .
a brucella gene that is from b . abortus .
a brucella abortus gene that has the name wboa and comes from strain 2308 .
a storage process that is specifically for vaccine .
a vaccine storage that is execuated at room temperature .
vaccine storage that is executed in refrigerator ,  usually 0 - 10^c .
vaccine storage that is executed in freezer under 0^c .
effectiveness is physical quality that represents the capability of a single physical entity  ( e .g . ,  vaccine )  producing an effect  ( e .g ,  protection against a disease )  .
a vaccine role that indicates the vaccine being a toxoid vaccine .
a vaccination process that is implemented fast .
a measure datum that measures the coverage of vaccination in a specific area during a specific time period .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pscar  .
a licensed vaccine role that indicates the vaccine occurs in usa .
a cattle vaccine with license that is used in usa .
a hiv vaccine that is composed of a dna vaccine expressing conserved ,  multiple hiv epitopes .
a hiv vaccine that is made of recombinant hiv gp120 protein adjuvanted with the adjuvant nanoemulsion .
an aeromonas bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against aeromonas salmonicida infection
gag - vrps is a cocktail vaccine of v3014 - packaged vrps expressing the sivsm h - 4i nonmyristylated matrix - capsid region ,  full - length gp160 ,  and a secreted form of gp160  ( gp140 )  .
a bacterial vaccine against v . anguillarum infection
a recombinant modified vaccinia ankara  ( mva )  expressing hiv gag ,  pol ,  and env proteins .
a siv vaccine that is composed of a dna vaccine and a poxvirus vector expressing the same siv antigens .
a b . abortus vaccine that is recombinant b . abortus strain 19 vaccine with the p39 gene deletion .
a yersinia pestis vaccine that is a pigmentation negative mutant of y . pestis derived from a fully virulent strain .
a yersinia pestis subunit vaccine that uses y . pestis f1 protein as antigen .
a y . pestis subunit vaccine that uses recombinant f1 and v antigens .
a y . pestis subunit vaccine that uses recombinant y . pestis v antigen .
a yersinia pestis subunit vaccine that contains staphylococcal protein a - v antigen fusion peptide  ( pav )  .
a y . pestis subunit vaccine that uses y . pestis yscf protein as antigen .
a y . pestis vaccine that uses the recombinant v10  ( rv10 )  ,  a variant  ( lacking residues 271 to 300 )  of yersinia pestis lcrv .
a formalin - inactivated preparation that was manufactured by cutter biologicals  ( a division of miles laboratories ,  inc . )  .
improvac is a vaccine that stimulates the pig’s own immune system to produce specific antibodies against gnrf .
a vaccine component that is added to the immunogen by the vaccine manufacturer for a specific purpose .
vaccine preservative is an vaccine additive that is added to a vaccine formulation to prevent the growth of bacteria or fungi that inadvertently may be introduced into the vaccine during use .
a vaccine additive that helps to protect the vaccine from adverse conditions such as the freeze - drying process  ( for those vaccines that are freeze - dried )  or heat .
a vaccine component that remains from the vaccine manufacturing process .
a vaccine residual that is used to inactivate bacteria and viruses or to detoxify bacterial toxins .
a vaccine residual that is generatead from cell culture for vaccine preparation .
serological correlate of protection is an immune correlate of protection that is reflected by serologic antibody levels .
a cell mediated immune correlate of protection is an immune correlate of protection that is reflected by a cell mediated immune response .
vaccine effectiveness is an effectiveness associated with a vaccine .
a licensed status that occurs in canada .
a bacterial vaccine against porphyromonas gulae infection
influvac is an influenza virus vaccine that is manufactured by solvay pharma .
vaxigrip is an influenza virus vaccine that is manufactured by 'sanofi pasteur limited .
anthrax spore vaccine is a b . anthracis vaccine that is prepared with a relatively nonpathogenic ,  noncapsulated variant strain of b . anthracis ,  originally developed at the onderstepoort laboratory ,  pretoria ,  south africa .
pclf4 is a bacillus anthracis vaccine that contains the n - terminal region  ( amino acids  [ aa ]  10 - 254 )  of bacillus anthracis lf cloned into the pci expression plasmid .
equity oestrus control vaccine for horses is prepared from an analogue of gonadotropin releasing factor  ( gnrf )  linked to a carrier protein .
a mineral salt vaccine adjuvant that is composed of aluminum salt .
a role inhers in a vaccine component that when added into a vccine formmulation ,  it can prevent the growth of bacteria or fungi that inadvertently may be introduced into the vaccine during administrating process or the manufacturing process .
a route of administration that inject the material ( such as vaccines ,  allergens )  into the skin itself .
age at vaccination is the age of an experiment animal at the time of vaccination .
dose is a measurement data that measures the quantity of something that may be eaten by or administered to an organism ,  or that an organism may be exposed to .
challenge dose is a dose of a virulent pathogen used for a vaccine challenge process .
secondary vaccination is a vaccination that is performed immediately after the primary or the first vaccination .
vaccine allergen is a material entity that is capable of stimulating a type - i hypersensitivity reaction in atopic individuals who has been vaccinated with a vaccine .
passive immunization that immunity is transferred from mother to fetus through placental transfer of igg or colostral transfer of iga .
the vaccine component that is used as antigen to produce an immune responce protect against the specific pathogen or disease .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is bovine albumin .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is bovine serum .
a vaccine stablizer that is based on monosodium glutamate .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is human albumin .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is human serum .
a vaccine stabilizer that is a polysorbate 20 .
a vaccine emulsifier that uses polysorbate 80 ,  also known as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate or tween™ 80 .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is residual protein from cell culture .
a vaccine stabilizer that is specifically made by sorbitol .
a vaccine that is made of a tk - negative  ( tk  -  )  and gi / ge - negative  ( gi / ge  -  )  pseudorabies virus  ( prv )  mutant to protect pigs against aujeszky's disease .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is sucrose albumin .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is from yeast extract .
a cell culture residual in vaccine that is yeast protein .
https: /  / www .nhsinform .scot / healthy - living / immunisation / vaccines / the - 6 - in - 1 - vaccine
a bacterial vaccine against s . equi infection
a bacterial vaccine against mycoplasma gallisepticum infection
pharyngeal mucosal route is an oral route of administration .
a b . abortus vaccine that uses a conjugate vaccine format
a b . abortus vaccine that uses a recombinant vector .
a vaccine that protects against herpes simplex virus type 1 and 2 .
an e . coli vaccine that uses a live mutant by knocking out one gene ( s )  from a wild type e . coli .
an e . coli vaccine that uses toxoid antigen
an e . coli vaccine that uses a recombinant vaccine vector to express an e . coli antigen ( s ) 
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pbluescript .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label nkcmvint .
an e . coli vaccine against uropathogenic e . coli infections
an e . coli vaccine against extraintestinal pathogenic e . coli infections
an e . coli vaccine against enterohemorrhagic e . coli infections
a tetanus vaccine manusfactured by sanofi pasteur inc . that is only for booster use  ( not recommended for primary immunization ) 
a viral vaccine that is used to protect against fowl pox virus infection
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pdonr221 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcn3 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label v1r .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pvac1 3 .0 .
spayvac is a contraceptive vaccine that has proven highly effective in deer and can be used to control populations .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label psin - cmv - vac .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pgacag .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pvcl1012 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label psca1 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label phcmv1 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcj - 3 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcdna3 .1 / v5 - his .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label psectag2 c .  this plasmid is 5167 base pairs long ,  has a cmv promoter and ampicillin and zeocin resistance genes .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pbc12 / cmv / il - 2 .
the plant - based newcastle disease virus vaccine is a newcastle disease virus vaccine that is developed by dow agrosciences llc .
a measles - mumps - rubella vaccine that is manufactured by sanofi aventis .
a live attenuated quality of a bacterial vaccine strain .
a live attenuated quality of a virus vaccine strain .
a vaccine that protects against marek's ;  disease virus .
a viral vaccine that protects aganist newcastle disease virus infection .
an avian reovirus vaccine that using live attenauted reovirus .
a feline panleukopenia virus vaccine where the virus used is live attenuated .
megan vac1 is a salmoneela vaccine that consists of a double gene - deleted s . enterica serovar typhimurium strain and is designed for protection of broilers to reduce salmonella contamination .
a bacterial vaccine vector that uses tb vaccine bcg as the vector .
an avian influenza vaccine that uses inactivated viral organism
a viral vaccine vector that uses a vesicular stomatitis virus  ( vsv )  as the vector .
a parasite vaccine vector using a live attenuated leishmania tarentolae strain .
a bacterial vaccine vector using a live attenuated salmonella enterica strain sl3261 .
a bacterial vaccine vector using a live attenuated edwardsiella tarda strain eib202
a vaccine vector that uses a parasite as the vector .
a bacterial vaccine against yersinia ruckeri infection
a bacterial vaccine vector using a live attenuated streptococcus gordonii vaccine vector .
a bacterial vaccine vector using a live attenuated bordetella pertussis bpze as a vaccine vector .
a bacterial vaccine vector using the hs93tox -  mutant of the serovar 7 strain of actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae .
an avipox virus vaccine vector that uses a fowlpox virus as the vector
a listeria monocytogenes vaccine vector that uses the highly attenuated lm1 - 2 strain
an avipox virus vaccine vector that uses an attenuated canarypox virus strain
a bacterial vaccine vector that uses an attenuated vibrio cholerae strain
a viral vaccine vector that uses an avian paramyxovirus strain
a herpesvirus vaccine vector that uses a herpes simplex virus strain
an adenovirus vaccine vector that uses the simian adenovirus chad63 strain .
an orthopoxvirus vaccine vector that uses an attenuated raccoon poxvirus strain
a herpesevirus vaccine vector that uses an established live - virus vaccine against aujeszky's disease of swine ,  pseudorabies virus  ( prv )  strain bartha  ( prv - ba )  ,  to serve as vector .
an adenovirus vaccine vector that uses a porcine adenovirus 3 strain
a viral vaccine vector that uses a poliovirus strain
an adenovirus vaccine vector that uses a chimpanzee adenovirus strain
a viral vaccine vector that uses a measles virus strain
a viral vaccine vector that uses a coxsackievirus strain
a poxvirus vaccine vector that uses an attenuated oka varicella virus strain
a viral vaccine vector that uses a newcastle virus strain
a viral vaccine vector that uses a myxoma virus strain
a viral vaccine vector that uses a maraba virus strain
a bacterial vaccine vector that uses an attenuated mycobacterium smegmatis strain
a bacterial vaccine vector that uses an attenuated lactobacillus gasseri strain
a herpes simplex virus vaccine vector that uses a virus type 1 strain
a bacterial vaccine vector that uses an e . coli strain
a viral vaccine vector that uses a duck enteritis virus strain
a herpesvirus vaccine vector that uses a cmv virus strain
a bacterial vaccine vector that uses a salmonella typhi strain
a recombinant vector vaccine that uses a homologous vector ,  i .e . ,  when the target species of the vaccine is a natural host for the vector .
a bacterial vaccine against mycoplasma synoviae infection
a recombinant vector vaccine that uses a homologous vector ,  i .e . ,  when the target species of the vaccine is not one of the natural hosts for the vector .
an adenovirus vaccine vector that uses an adenovirus serotype 5 strain .
an adenovirus vaccine vector that contains a deletion of the gp64 gene .
protozoan vaccine that is used to protect against giardia intestinalis infection
a viral vaccine vector that uses a baculovirus as the vector
a chlamydia bacterial vaccine against c . abortus infection
an adenovirus vaccine vector that uses a complex adenovirus as the vector strain .
an adenovirus vaccine vector that uses a human adenovirus as the vector strain .
a viral vaccine vector that uses a murine leukemia virus as the vaccine vector
a population group that have priority for  vaccination when a vaccine is first available .
a vaccinia vaccine vector that uses the highly attenuated nyvac  as vector
passive immunization by injecting a recipient with pre - made antibody ,  antitoxin ,  epitope ,  etc .
a vaccine used to increase the fecundity in breeding ewes .
a viral vaccine vector that uses a retroviral strain
a bacterial vaccine against lawsonia intracellularis infection
a poxvirus vaccine vector that uses a swinepox virus as the vector
a vaccinia virus vector that uses the modified vaccinia ankara  ( mva )  virus .
a poxvirus vaccine vector that uses an orf virus which is a parapoxvirus .
a vaccinia virus vector that uses the mvtt vaccine strain as the vector .
a fertility vaccine that enhance fertility in sheep .
a poxvirus vaccine vector that uses an attenuated lumpy skin disease virus as the vector .
a viral vaccine vector that uses a bovine parainfluenza virus strain as vector
a bordetella bacterial vaccine against infection of b . avium
a poxvirus vaccine vector that uses an attenuated capripoxvirus strain as the vaccine vector
survival of live vaccine inside host is a processual entity that represents the survival of a live vaccine inside its host .
persistence of vaccine induced immune response is a processual entity that indicates the persistence of an immune reponse induced by a vaccine in a vaccinated host .
a bacterial vaccine vector that uses a corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis strain as the vaccine vector
a viral vaccine vector that uses a rhabdovirus - based viral strain as the vaccine vector
a recombinant vaccine vector that uses saccharomyces cerevisiae as the vaccine vector
a viral vaccine vector that uses a venezuelan equine encephalitis virus strain as the vaccine vector
live attenuated brucella vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine that protects against a brucella infection .
a canarypox vaccine vector that uses an attenuated canarypox virus strain alvac .
an adenovirus vaccine vector that is not able to replicate .
a bacterial vaccine against a . pleuropneumoniae infection
an adenovirus vaccine vector that is able to replicate .
assay of cfu reduction in liver is a cfu reduction assay that is measured using the extracted liver as the tissue for isolation of infected pathogens .
assay of cfu reduction in lung is a cfu reduction assay that is measured using the extracted lung as the tissue for isolation of infected pathogens .
live attenuated brucella vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine that protects against a brucella abortus infection .
live attenuated brucella vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine that protects against a brucella melitensis infection .
live attenuated brucella vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine that protects against a brucella melitensis infection .
vaccine viability is a viability of a vaccine organism .
a recombinant vaccine vector that uses a fungus as the vaccine vector
a poxvirus vaccine vector that uses an avipox virus as the vector
a poxvirus vaccine vector that uses an orthopox virus as the vector
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes il - 12 .
bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against piscirickettsia salmonis infection
an e . coli vaccine against enterotoxigenic e . coli infections
b . abortus l7 / l12 is a b . abortus subunit vaccine using l7 / l12 that is formed by recombinant human serum albumin  ( has )  - l7 / l12 fusion protein .
an e . coli vaccine against shiga toxin - producing e . coli  ( stec )  infections
purevax ferret distemper is a lyophilized ferret vaccine of a recombinant canarypox vector expressing the ha and f glycoproteins of canine distemper virus .
specification of time interval after vaccination for challenge is a plan specification that specifies the time interval after vacciation for challenge
pathogen challenge protocol is a protocol that is used for a pathogen challenge process .
reduction of colony - forming unit  ( cfu )  is a titer measurement of viable bacterial or fungal numbers .
intraperitoneal pathogen challenge is a pathogen challenge process that occurs in the intraperitoneal site of a host .
a vaccination process that occurs in the intraperitoneal route
an e . coli subunit vaccine that uses e . coli fimh adhesin protein as teh antigen ,  and uses the complete freund's adjuvant  ( cfa )  in the first vaccination and the incomplete freund's adjuvant  ( ifa )  in the boost vaccination .
e . coli dna vaccine is a dna vaccine that protects against an e . coli infection .
a vaccine organism that is a specific strain
b . melitensis bp26 and omp31 deletion vaccine is a brucella melitensis vaccine that has double deletions of bp26 and omp31 .
b . abortus l7 / l12 fused to mbp is a b . abortus subunit vaccine using l7 / l12 that uses recombinant l7 / l12 fused on maltose binding protein mbp .
inactivated influenza vaccine is an inactivated viral vaccine that targets at influenza viral infections .
live attenuated influenza vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine that protects against influenza viral infection .
a vaccine role that is borne by an organism strain serving as a vaccine
a data set that represents a set of data for a list of variables  ( e .g . ,  vaccination dose )  for the data analysis of an vaccine investigation study .
a vaccination that occurs in the intramuscular route .
a measurement datum that represents a vaccine strain .
a measurement datum that represents vaccine viability .
a measurement datum that indicates the usage of a vaccine adjuvant .
a measurement datum that represents a specific protective antigen used in a vaccine .
a measurement datum that represents a specific mutated gene from a vaccine strain .
a measurement datum that represents a specific mouse strain used for vaccination .
a measurement datum that represents the biological sex of an animal .
a measurement datum that represents a specific route  ( e .g . ,  i .p . ) 
a vaccination dose that is used with the unit of colony forming units  ( cfu )  .
a measurement datum that represents the animal age  ( unit: day )  at the time of vaccination .
a measurement datum that represents a specific pathogen strain used for animal challenge study .
a measurement datum that represents a specific pathogen used for animal challenge study .
a challenge dose that is represented with the unit of colony forming units  ( cfu )  .
a measurement datum that represents a length of days as the interval between a vaccination and a challenge in a specific vaccine protection study .
a colony forming unit  ( cfu )  from the sample of mouse spleen .
a reduction of cfu that was measured with the unit of colony forming units  ( cfu )  from the sample of mouse spleen .
a measurement datum that represents a type of vaccine protection efficacy as an outcome of a vaccine protection study .
a chlamydia bacterial vaccine against chlamydia trachomatis infection
b . abortus bls - l7 / l12 is a b . abortus subunit vaccine using l7 / l12 that is made as a recombinant bls - l7 / l12 fusion protein vaccine .
vaccine protection efficacy measurement is an assay that measures the protection efficayc of a vaccine .
viral vaccine that is used to protect against african swine fever virus infection
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with foot - and - mouth disease virus .
a bacterial vaccine that uses inactivated bacterial organism .
an anti - reproductive vaccine for cattle .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with lymphocytic choriomeningitis mammarenavirus
a bacterial vaccine that is live and attenuated
veterinary vaccine is a vaccine that is used for animals  ( excluding humans )  ,  for example ,  pet ,  domestic ,  wildlife ,  and livestock animals .
a viral vaccine that is live attenuated
a viral vaccine that protects aganist newcastle disease virus infection .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with human herpesvirus 5 .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with coxsackievirus
a protozoan vaccine that protects against infection with schistosoma japonicum
a bacterial vaccine against treponema pallidum infection
a vaccine that protects against leishmania major .
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a viral vaccine
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a protozoan vaccine
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a fungal vaccine
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a cancer vaccine
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant compsed of cpg dna .
ribi vaccine adjuvant is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant that is a stable oil - in - water emulsion .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant named rc529 that is a lipid a mimetic .
an aluminum vaccine adjuvant that is aluminum potassium sulfate  ( alk ( so4 ) 2 )  .
an aluminum hydroxide vaccine adjuvant that is a gel that is made by precipitation of aluminum hydroxide al ( oh ) 3 under alkaline conditions .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant made of the b subunit of the cholera toxin from vibrio cholerae .
synflorix is indicated for active immunization of infants and children from 6 weeks up to 5 years of age against streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes 1 ,  4 ,  5 ,  6b ,  7f ,  9v ,  14 ,  18c ,  19f and 23f and invasive disease caused by these serotypes  ( including sepsis ,  meningitis ,  bacteraemic pneumonia ,  pleural empyema and bacteraemia )  .
an aqueous formula of the synthetic vaccine adjuvant rc529 .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant derived from the lipopolysaccharide  ( lps )  of salmonella minnesota r595 .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant that is a mutant form of lt containing a ser - lys substitution in position 63 which has been shown to be totally devoid of toxicity stable to protease treatment and able to act as mucosal adjuvant .
is a bacterial toxin  ( usually an exotoxin )  whose toxicity has been weakened or suppressed either by chemical  ( formalin )  or heat treatment ,  while other properties ,  typically immunogenicity ,  are maintained .
a subunit vaccine that uses polysaccharide as protective antigen
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant derived from heat - killed corynebacterium parvum .
titermax gold is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant which is a water - in - oil adjuvant with crl - 8300  ( a block copolymer )  ,  squalene ,  and sorbitan monooleate .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is dimethyldioctadecylammonium bromide  ( dda )  ,  a lipophilic quaternary ammonium salt known as a good adjuvant when co - administered systemically or nasally with an antigen .
a liposome - based vaccine adjuvant that have a positive surface charge .
a combination vaccine adjuvant comprised of monophosphoryl lipid a  ( mpl )  ,  qs21 and an oil in water emulsion .
vsa - 3 is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant which is an emulsion plus dda .
a tensoactive compound vaccine adjuvant that is derived from saponin ,  a compound that is an immunostimulator found in the plant p . senega .
a montanide vaccine adjuvant that is formulated as water - in - oil emulsions and induces high antibody titers in several animal species .
a montanide vaccine adjuvant that is a mineral oil adjuvant .
a montanide vaccine adjuvant that is a vaccine adjuvant composed of a light mineral oil and a surfactant system designed to make a water - in - oil emulsion .
an emulsion vaccine adjuvant developed by montanide  ( http: /  / www .montanide .com /  )  .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant with the tradename polygen .
a role of host that contains vaccine .
a suspension of 1 - 2μm ovoids of immune stimulant gamma inulin  ( g - in )  in which alum is embedded as a carrier for protein or other anionic antigens .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is bay r1005  ( n -  ( 2 - deoxy - 2 - l - leucylamino β - d - glucopyranosyl )  - n - octadecyldodecanoylamide hydroacetate  )  .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is n ,  n - dioctadecyl - n′ ,  n′ - bis (  2 - hydroxyethyl )  propanediamine  ( avridine )  .
a calcium phosphate vaccine adjuvant that is a gel prepared by precipitating soluable calcium and phosphate salts .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant composed of the cta1 - dd fusion protein .
gamma inulin is a carbohydrate adjuvant that is a highly specific activator of the alternative pathway of complement in vitro and in vivo ,  and is composed of linear  ( unbranched )  b - d -  ( 2 - 1 )  polyfructofuranosyl - a - d - glucose .
gerbu adjuvant is a combination vaccine adjuvant that is comprised of a mixture of gmdp ,  dda ,  and zinc l - proline salt complex  ( znpro8 )  .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes gm - csf .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant containing gmdp ,  a higly effective primary adjuvant .
an ifn - gamma vaccine adjuvant that is composed of recombinant hifn - gamma .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes il - 1b .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes il - 2 .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes il - 7 .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant loxoribine is a guanosine analog derivatized at position n7 and c8 ,  and activates tlr - 7 .
pmid: 20488726
mtp - pe liposomes are a liposome - based vaccine adjuvant that consists of liposomes containing  the synthetic lipophilic analog of muramyl dipeptide ,  muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine  ( mtp - pe )  .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant made of murametide that has adjuvant activity similar to mdp .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant called murapalmitine .
a synthetic adjuvant that is an mdp analog called d - murapalmitine .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is composed of neuraminidase - galactose oxidase  ( nago )  a mixture of mixture of the two enzymes - neuraminidase and galactose oxidase .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant consisting of multi - lamellar vesicles comprising a mixture of non - ionic surfactant  ( e .g . ,  1 - monopalmitoyl - rac - glycerol )  ,  cholesterol and dicetyl phosphate used as a primary vaccine adjuvant for entrapped antigen .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant made from the emulsion polymerization of methyl methacrylate .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant synthesized from stable protein phospholipid - calcium precipitates .
a tensoactive compound vaccine adjuvant that is composed of extracts from the bark of the quillaja saponaria molina tree .
an aluminum vaccine adjuvant that is a synthetic oxyhydroxide of aluminum  ( aluminum hydroxide )  prepared by acid - base precipitation .
an aluminum hydroxide vaccine adjuvant that is a low visosity aluminum hydroxide gel .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that contains the 163 - 171 peptide of il - 1β .
specon is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant that is a water - in - oil emulsion that is used as an adjuvant and has immunostimulating properties similar to freund's complete adjuvant  ( fca )  .
spt is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant that is an emulsion of squalane  ( 5% )  ,  tween 80 (  0 .2% )  ,  pluronic l121 (  1 .25% )  ,  phosphate - buffered saline ph 7 .4 ,  and antigen .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant stearyl tyrosine is considered an "organic equivelant" of aluminum hydroxide .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant called theramide that is composed of n - acetylglucosaminyl - n - acetylinuramyl - l - ala - d - isoglu - l - ala - dipalmitoxy propylamide  ( dtp - dpp )  .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is a copolymer  ( crl1005 )  ,  based on a 12 kda polyoxypropylene  ( pop )  core with 5% poe .
nanoemulsion vaccine adjuvant is an emulsion vaccine adjuvant and is made from non - toxic lipid droplets a few hundred nanometers in diameter and made from surfactants approved for human consumption and common food substances that are 'generally recognized as safe'  ( gras )  by the fda .
as03 is an emusion vaccine adjuvant that contains α - tocopherol and squalene ,  two biodegradable polyprenyls ,  in an oil - in - water emulsion .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant containing e . coli heat - labile toxin .
an aluminum vaccine adjuvant that is a a proprietary aluminum hydroxyphosphate sulfate formulation that is both physically and functionally distinct from traditional aluminum phosphate and aluminum hydroxide adjuvants .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant contiaing imiquimod a imidazoquinoline .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant ,  resiquimod is a chemical analog of imiquimod .
an emulsion vaccine adjuvant containing 2 .5% squalene .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant composed of flagellin from gram - negative bacteria .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant containing poly ( i:c )  ,  a synthetic double stranded analog of rna .
a particulate antigen delivery system that is a vaccine adjuvant comprising cholesterol ,  phospholipid and saponin but without antigen .
a tensoactive compound vaccine adjuvant that is made from highly purified saponins .
a particulate antigen delivery system  that is albumin - heparin microparticles vaccine adjuvant that is prepared from albumin and heparin stabilized by cross - linking reaction with edc .
smithkline beecham adjuvant system 2   ( as - 2 )  is a combination vaccine adjuvant and is based on the combination of monophosphoryl lipid a ( mpl )  ,  qs21  ( a purified fraction of saponin extracted from quillarja saponaria )  ,  and a proprietary oil in water emulsion .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes b7 - 2 .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is a local anaesthetic drug belonging to the amino amide group ,  and is used as a vaccine adjuvant in dna vaccines .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is plga ,  which has been used in the controlled delivery of peptide drugs .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that uses the adjuvant effect of cytokine il - 15 .
immunoliposomes containing antibodies to costimulatory molecules is a liposome - based vaccine adjuvant which is prepared from dehydration - rehydration vesicles  ( drvs )  .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant that is a mutant form of heat - labile escherichia coli enterotoxin  ( lt )  that contains a substitution ala → arg in position 72 of the a subunit .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant containing mpl and squalene .
a vaccine preservative that contains formaldehyde .
a microbial derived vaccine adjuvant made of e112k mc ,   a mutated ct created by substituting a single amino acid in the adp - ribosyltransferase active centre ,  glutamate to lysine at position 112 .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant that is derived from cholera toxin .
saf - 1 is a combination vaccine adjuvant that is composed of threonyl - mdp  ( 0 .05 - 1% )  in an emulsion vehicle  [ 5% squalane ,  2 .5% pluronic® l121 ,  0 .2% polysorbate 80 and phosphate buffered saline  ( ph 7 .4 )  ]  .
a synthetic vaccine adjuvant that is threonyl muramyl dipeptide  ( tmdp )  .
a microbial derivative vaccine adjuvant made of virus like particles  ( vlps )  containing the yeast retrotransposon ty which has the amino acids 1 - 381 of the pi protein encoded .
a vaccine adjuvant that serves as a particulate antigen delivery system .
a vaccine adjuvant that contains synthetic material .
a vaccine adjuvant that includes tensioactive material .
a cytokine vaccine adjuvant that includes ifn - gamma .
a role that is inherenced in a gene that can be mutated in a virulent pathogen ,  leading to an attenuated strain serving as a live attenuated vaccine strain .
a vaccine that targets for allergy .
bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against clostridium perfringens infection
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with cchf virus
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with caprine herpesvirus type 1 virus
an inactivation vaccine that is prepared by heat inactivation .
an inactivation vaccine that is prepared by irradiation inactivation .
an inactivation vaccine that is prepared by h2o2 inactivation .
an inactivation vaccine that is prepared by formalin inactivation .
a vaccine prepraration process that is performed by h2o2 inactivation of virulent pathogen .
an organismal quality that indicates an organism  ( e .g . ,  human )  is not yet immunized against a disease .
an organismal quality that indicates an organism  ( e .g . ,  human )  is immunized against a disease through vaccination with a licensed vaccine .
an organism that is vaccinated with a vaccine
a streptococcus  vaccine against streptococcus agalactiae infection .
an organismal quality that indicates an organism  ( e .g . ,  human )  is vaccinated with a vaccine .
an organismal quality that indicates an organism  ( e .g . ,  human )  is unvaccinated with any vaccine .
a vaccinated quality that indicates an organism is vaccinated with a licensed vaccine .
a unvaccinated quality that indicates an organism has not been vaccinated with a licensed vaccine .
a cancer vaccine that protects mice against tumor growth following challenge with live b16 cells .
an organism that is immunized for a disease
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus
an organism that is unvaccinated with a vaccine
a bacterial gene from actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae .
a vaccine that protects against trypanosoma cruzi .
a t . cruzi dna vaccine that uses a dna plasmid pgfp expressing t . cruzi crp - 10 protein .
a t . cruzi dna vaccine that uses a dna plasmid pgfp expressing t . cruzi g2 protein .
a t . cruzi dna vaccine that uses a dna plasmid pgfp expressing t . cruzi g4 protein .
a t . cruzi dna vaccine that uses a dna plasmid expressing t . cruzi tsa - 1 protein .
a t . cruzi dna vaccine that uses a dna plasmid pgfp expressing t . cruzi tsa - 1 protein .
a t . cruzi subunit vaccine that uses t . cruzi par1 protein as protective antigen .
a t . cruzi subunit vaccine that uses t . cruzi par2 protein as protective antigen .
a t . cruzi vaccine that uses attenuated salmonella to express t . cruzi cruzipain protein .
a t . cruzi vaccine that uses sendai virus vector to express t . cruzi amastigote surface protein - 2 .
a vaccine that contains two or more individual vaccines .
a cocktail vaccine that contains both subunit vaccine and inactivated whole organism vaccines .
a prime - boost vaccine with dna vaccine priming that contains a subunit vaccine for boosting
a prime - boost vaccine with a dna vaccine priming that contains a ad vector vaccine for boosting
a conjugate vaccine that conjugate more than one open reading frames of protective antigens or conjugate a protective antigen to a carrier protein .
a brucella gene that is from b . melitensis .
a brucella gene that is from b . suis .
a bacterial gene that is from bacillus anthracis .
a bacterial gene that is from listeria monocytogenes .
a bacterial gene that is from mycobacterium avium .
a bacterial gene that is from staphylococcus aureus .
a bacterial gene that is from aeromonas hydrophila .
a bacterial gene that is from bordetella bronchiseptica .
a bacterial gene that is from aeromonas salmonicida .
a bacterial gene that is from bordetella pertussis .
a bacterial gene that is from borrelia burgdorferi .
a bacterial gene that is from burkholderia pseudomallei .
a bacterial gene that is from burkholderia pseudomallei .
a bacterial gene that is from edwardsiella tarda .
a bacterial gene that is from francisella tularensis .
a bacterial gene that is from mannheimia haemolytica .
a bacterial gene that is from mycoplasma gallisepticum .
a bacterial gene that is from neisseria meningitidis .
a bacterial gene that is from pasteurella multocida .
a bacterial gene that is from salmonella typhi .
a bacterial gene that is from salmonella gallinarum .
a bacterial gene that is from salmonella typhimurium .
a bacterial gene that is from salmonella enteritidis .
a bacterial gene that is from vibrio cholerae .
a viral gene that is from bovine herpesvirus 1 .
a bacterial gene that is from yersinia enterocolitica .
a bacterial gene that is from yersinia pestis .
a bacterial gene that is from yersinia pseudotuberculosis .
a bacterial gene that is from yersinia ruckeri .
a viral gene that is from bovine respiratory syncytial virus .
a viral gene that is from classical swine fever virus .
a viral gene that is from equid herpesvirus 1 .
a viral gene that is from feline herpesvirus 1 .
a viral gene that is from feline immunodeficiency virus .
a viral gene that is from feline infectious peritonitis virus .
a viral gene that is from gallid herpesvirus 1 .
a viral gene that is from hepatitis b virus .
a viral gene that is from human herpesvirus 1 .
a viral gene that is from human metapneumovirus .
a viral gene that is from human respiratory syncytial virus .
a viral gene that is from infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus .
a viral gene that is from porcine respiratory and reproductive syndrome virus .
a viral gene that is from pseudorabies virus .
a viral gene that is from rabies virus .
a viral gene that is from sars - cov .
a viral gene that is from simian immunodeficiency virus .
a viral gene that is from tick - borne encephalitis virus .
a viral gene that is from vee virus .
a viral gene that is from west nile virus .
a viral gene that is from western equine encephalomyelitis virus .
a protozoan gene that is from leishmania donovani .
a plasmodium gene that is from plasmodium berghei .
a plasmodium gene that is from plasmodium yoelii .
a protozoan gene that is from toxoplasma gondii .
a viral gene that is from human herpesvirus 2 .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with rinderpest virus
bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae infection
protozoan vaccine that is used to protect against tritrichomonas suis infection
protozoan vaccine that is used to protect against eimeria spp .
viral vaccine that is used to protect against orf virus infection
vaccine that used for immunizing aves .
vaccine that used for immunizing fishes
viral vaccine that is used to protect against fowlpox virus infection
vaccine that used for immunizing carnivora .
vaccine that used for immunizing cat  ( felis catus ) 
vaccine that used for immunizing  salmoninae  ( tourts ,  salmons & chars  ) 
the objective that intends to produce vaccine via the vaccine preparation process .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with african horse sickness virus
viral vaccine that is used to protect against pigeonpox virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against bovine herpesvirus 1 infection
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with borna disease virus
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with caprine herpesvirus 1
a vaccine licensed in the usa
viral vaccine that is used to protect against equid herpesvirus 1 infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against feline herpesvirus 1  ( felid herpesvirus 1 )  infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against gallid herpesvirus 1 infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against canine adenovirus type 1  ( canine adenovirus 1 )  infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against canine adenovirus type 2  ( canine adenovirus 2 )  infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against bovine papillomavirus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against avian polyomavirus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against mink enteritis virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against porcine parvovirus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against porcine rotavirus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against equine rotavirus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against infectious bursal disease virus  ( ibdv )  infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against eastern equine encephalitis virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against vee virus  ( venezuelan equine encephalitis virus )  infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against equine arteritis virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against infectious bronchitis virus  ( ibv )  infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against bovine coronavirus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against feline infectious peritonitis virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against transmissible gastroenteritis virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against bovine parainfluenza 3 virus  ( bpiv - 3 )   ( bovine parainfluenza virus 3 )  infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against bovine respiratory syncytial virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against feline immunodeficiency virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against feline calicivirus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against chicken anemia virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against porcine respiratory and reproductive syndrome virus  ( porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus )  infection
bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against riemerella anatipestifer infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against avian reovirus  ( avian orthoreovirus )  infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against avian pneumovirus  ( avian metapneumovirus )  infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against bluetongue virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against turkey hemorrhagic enteritis virus  ( turkey adenoirus 3 )  infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against canarypox virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against psittacid herpesvirus 1 infection
a vaccine that protects against infection with mycobacterium bovis
viral vaccine that is used to protect against infectious salmon anemia virus infection
an edwardsiella bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against edwardsiella ictaluri infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against avian encephalomyelitis virus infection
bacterial vaccine that is used to protect against mannheimia haemolytica infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against porcine circovirus 2 infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against duck enteritis virus  ( anatid herpesvirus 1 )  infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against canine parainfluenza virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against avian paramyxovirus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against duck hepatitis virus 1  ( duck hepatitis a virus )  infection
a horse encephalomyelitis - influenza - west nile virus vaccine that is inactivated and manufactured by wyeth pharmaceuticals inc .
a viral vaccine against horse eev ,  wev ,  and vee viral infections
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with hirame rhabdovirus
a horse vaccine that protects against eee ,  vee ,  wee ,  influenza virius infection ,  and west nile virus infection .
a vaccine that protects against listeria monocytogenes .
a vaccine that protects against mycobacterium avium .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infection with staphylococcus aureus .
a bacterial gene that is from streptococcus .
a bacterial gene that is from streptococcus .
an aeromonas vaccine that protects against aeromonas hydrophila .
an edwardsiella bacterial vaccine that protects against edwardsiella tarda .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infections by  salmonella typhimurium species .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infections by  salmonella enterica subsp .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infections by salmonella enterica subsp .
a bacterial vaccine that protects against infections by yersinia pseudotuberculosis .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection of human metapneumovirus .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection of human respiratory syncytial virus .
a malaria vaccine that protects against malaria caused by plasmodium berghei .
a malaria vaccine that protects against malaria caused by plasmodium yoelii .
a protozoan gene that is from leishmania infantum .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with reticuloendotheliosis virus
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with chikungunya virus
rd1 and pancd mutants in mycobacterium tuberculosis were attenuated and provided protection in cd4 - deficient mice against an aerosol challenge with virulent m . tuberculosis
a bacterial vaccine against streptococcus suis infection
a diphtheria vaccine against infection with corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis
a protozoan vaccine against trichinella spiralis infection
a vaccine that prevents or treats atherosclerosis disease .
a vaccine that prevents or treats diabetes .
a vaccine that prevents or treats a non - infectious disease .
a vaccine that prevents or treats arthritis .
a vaccine that prevents or treats an autoimmune disease .
a streptococcus  vaccine against streptococcus pyogenes infection .
a brucella vaccine against infection wtih b . ovis
route of administration that located in the stomach ,  so that the material is taken into body through stomach directly .
a intragastric route that has a vaccine injection site located in stomach .
vaccination that occurs in the intagastric route .
vaccination process that occurs in intranasal route
vaccination process that occurs in oral route .
vaccination process that occurs in the subcutaneous route
a vaccine prepration process that mixes vaccine lyophilized powder and diluent liquid .
a vaccine powder that is freeze - dried and lyophilized .
a role inheres in the vaccine component when it is added into vaccine's formulation ,  it tends to stabilizes an emulsion by increasing its kinetic stablity .
a role inheres in vaccine component when added into vaccine's formulation ,  it tends to inhibit the reaction between two or more other vaccine substances in the final vaccine formulation ;  it also helps to protect the vaccine from adverse conditions such as the freeze - drying process or heat .
a protein vaccine stablizer that is specifically human serum albumin .
the serum albumin that is part of human
a vaccine stabilizer that is gelatin .
a vaccine - induced host gene response that represents a vaccine adverse event response associated with a host susceptibility gene .
a protein vaccine stablizer that is specifically bovine serum albumin .
a vaccine stabilizer that is specifically made by a sugar .
a vaccine stabilizer that is generated based on amino acids .
a vaccine stabilizer that is specifically made by a sucrose .
a vaccine stabilizer that is specifically made by a lactose .
a vaccine stabilizer that is a protein .
a polysorbate 20 vaccine stabilizer that is alkest tw20 .
a polysorbate 20 vaccine stabilizer that is tween 20 .
an antibiotics vaccine residual that has the antibiotics of neomycin .
the vaccine antiegn that induces protective immune response .
a viral vaccine against infection of an sindbis virus .
a viral vaccine against infection of a lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus .
a protozoan vaccine against schistosoma mansoni
a protozoan vaccine against schistosoma infection
when the vaccination of a significant portion of a population  ( or herd )  ,  in contagious diseases that are transmitted from individual to individual ,  chains of infection are likely to be disrupted ,  so the large numbers of a population are immue or less susceptible to the disease .
the conjugate protein is a part of a conjugate vaccine and acts as a carrier protein that is covalently attached to a vaccine antigen with poor antigenicity  ( e .g . ,  a polysaccharide )  .
role inheres in a material eneitity that union itself chemically with a relative weak vaccine antigen to form a new whole that can create an effective miinuogen .
the injection of a given substance directly into the bladder via a urethral catheter instead of being injected under the skin .
a viral vaccine against infection of a lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus .
a viral vaccine against infection of a viral haemorrhagic septicaemia virus .
an vaccine - induced host response that shows augmented protection and cellular immunity after a host protein is used as adjuvant .
a vaccine that protects against mycobacterium marinum .
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with hepatitis d virus .
viral vaccine that is used to protect against monkeypox virus infection
viral vaccine that is used to protect against bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 infection
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with murine cytomegalovirus  ( or called murid herpesvirus 1 )  .
this vaccine is given to provide protection against diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  and pertussis in children between 6 weeks and 7 years old .
influenza virus vaccine is used to prevent infection caused by influenza virus types a and b .
monovalent vaccine agianst poliomyelitis for infants 6 - 12 weeks of age ,  all immunized children up to 18 years of age ,  and high risk adults .
a malaria vaccine that consists of hepatitis b surface antigen virus - like particles ,  incorporating a portion of the plasmodium falciparum - derived circumsporozoite protein and a liposome - based adjuvant .
revaxis is a diphtheria ,  tetanus and poliomyelitis  ( inactivated )  vaccine manufactured by sanofi pasteur .
a diphthpheria - tetanus absorbed vaccine for children 7 years of age and adults .
a rotavirus vaccine against severe diarrheal disease .
a more attenuated measles vaccine that targets measles virus strain moraten .
an inactive vaccine used to prevent tetanus .
an active immunization against cholera ,  indicated only for individuals traveling to or residing in countries where cholera is endemic or epidemic .
a hexavalent vaccine that has been withrawn on june 2012 by the european commission
a vaccine used to help prevent rabies infection in people who either have been ,  or are at risk of being bitten ,  licked or scratched by an animal infected with rabies virus .
lymerix  [ lyme disease vaccine  ( recombinant ospa )  ]  is a noninfectious recombinant vaccine developed and manufactured by smithkline beecham biologicals .
a human diploid cell vaccine against rabies ,  a viral infectious disease .
this absorbed recombinant hepatitis b vaccine is indicated for active immunization against hepatitis b virus infection caused by all known subtypes in subjects of any age considered at risk of exposure to the virus .
hpv77 / de5 strain
a vaccine for indivuduals who at risk or recently exposed to rabies .
an adsorbed diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  pertussis and inactivated poliomyelitis vaccine .
a vaccine for diphtheria ,  haemophilus influenzae ,  pertussis ,  and tetanus diseases .
a vaccine against flu  ( influenza )  in adults ,  especially in those who run an increased risk of experiencing associated complications in case they fall ill with flu .
a vaccine used to prevent diphtheria and tetanus in individuals over 6 years of age .
a combined live virus vaccine used to prevent measles ,  mumps ,  and rubella .
a vaccine used to protect against measles ,  mumps ,  and rubella for 12 - 15 month - old individuals .
kallan roan ,  oliver he
a haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate vaccine manufactured by gsb .
a vaccine against diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  and pertussis .
a tb vaccine that uses attenuated fowlpox strain fp9 to express mycobacterial mycolyl transferase ag85a .
pharmacotherapeutic group  ( atc code ) : j 07 an 01 .
a tb vaccine that uses bcg as vaccine vector .
a tb vaccine that recombinant bcg strain with the replacment of its urease c encoding gene with the listeriolysin encoding gene from listeria monocytogenes .
the mrk adenovirus type 5 human immunodeficiency virus type 1 clade b gag / pol / nef vaccine is a replication - incompetent adenovirus type 5 - vectored vaccine that elicits cell - mediated immunity against conserved human immunodeficiency virus proteins .
a yellow fever virus vaccine that uses the live attenated 17dd strain .
a yf - 17dd vaccine t hat is manufactured by bio - manguinhos
a licensed n . meningitidis vaccine that includes meningococcal polysaccharides from groups a ,  c ,  y and w - 135 combined ,  and is manufactured by gsk .
it is live attenuated yfv vaccine strain 17d manufactured in china ,  france ,  senegal ,  and the usa .
a cancer vaccine against non - small cell lung cancer  ( nsclc ) 
a non - small cell lung cancer mrna - derived vaccine that contains modified mrnas encoding cancer - testis antigen ny - eso - 1 ,  melanoma - associated antigens c1  ( mage - c1 / ct7 )  and c2  ( mage - c2 / ct10 )  ,  survivin ,  and the oncofetal antigen 5t4 with potential antitumor and immunomodulatory activities .
a vaccine role that indicates a clinical trial status of a vaccine
lipo - 5 is a therapeutic hiv vaccine made up of lipopeptides ,  study names: vri02 / anrs 149 light ;  nct01492985
a hepatitis b virus vaccine that uses recombinant hepatitis b surface antigen as the antigen
a hepatitis b surface antigen viral vaccine that utilizes a cytidine - phosphate - guanosine oligodeoxynucleotide  ( cpgodn )  1018 ,  as an adjuvant .
a cpg dna vaccine adjuvant that is a short ,  synthetic ,  unmethylated cpg oligodeoxynucleotide  ( cpg odn )  with immunostimulatory activity .
a human paillomavirus vaccine that has the vaccine antigen ingredient of monovalent non - infectious ,  l1 recombinant hpv - like particles  ( vlp )  .
an inactivated japanese encephalitis vaccine  ( jvax * )  for use by certain travelers to and expatriates in asia .
a combination vaccine that protects against diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  pertussis ,  and haemophilus influenzae type b .
a combination vaccine that protects against diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  pertussis ,  and haemophilus influenzae type b .
a vaccine used to develop immunity to rabies .
a live virus vaccine for immunization against measles and rubella .
active immunzation against diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  pertussis and hepatitis b  ( hbv )  in infants from 6 weeks onwards
a vaccine used to prevent diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  pertussis ,  and haemophilus type b infections .
an oral vaccine against adenovirus serotype 4 .
an oral vaccine against adenovirus serotype 7 .
a vaccine that protects against ,  diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  pertussis  ( whooping cough )  ,  polio ,  and haemophilus influenzae type b .
active immunization against tetanus ,  diphtheria ,  pertussis ,  and poliomyelitis for individuals between 3 months and 6 years of age .
a vaccine that protects adolescents and adults from tetanus ,  diphtheria ,  and pertussis .
a measles virus vaccine manufactured outside of the u .s .
a mumps - rubella vaccine manufactured outside of the u .s .
a diphtheria - tetanus - pertussis - poliovirus - hepatitis b vaccine manufactured outside of the u .s
a diphtheria - tetanus - pertussis - poliovirus vaccine manufactured outside of the u .s .
a haemophilis influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide vaccine manufactured outside of the u .s .
a hepatitis b vaccine manufactured outside of the u .s .
a diphtheria - tetanus - poliovirus vaccine manufactured outside of the u .s .
a diphtheria - tetanus - pertussis - poliovirus - haemophilus b - hepatitis b vaccine manufactured outside of the u .s .
a seasonal influenza virus vaccine manufactured outside of the u .s .
a diphtheria - tetanus - pertussis - poliovirus - haemophilus b vaccine manufactured outside of the u .s
an active immunizing combination agent that is used to prevent infection caused by certain groups of meningococcal bacteria and haemophilus influenza type b  ( hib )  bacteria .
a meningicoccal conjugate and haemophilis b vaccine manufactured outside of the u .s .
a tick - borne encephalitis virus vaccine used to prevent subtype far eastern tick - borne encephalitis virus  ( formerly known as russian spring summer encephalitis virus )  .
a polysaccharide vaccine to prevent typhoid caused salmonella typhi .
a vaccine to protect individuals against infections caused by hepatitis a virus and typhoid fever bacteria .
a monovalent vaccine used to protect against h1n1 influenza virus .
for the prevention of influenza caused by influenza virus ,  types a and b .
a vaccine which helps prevent hepatitis a and typhoid fever .
the site that is the part of the host body and the entrance point where a vaccine is administered .
a trivalent inactive influenza virus vaccine .
a combination vaccine against diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  pertussis ,  poliomyelitis ,  and haemophilus influenzae type b  ( hib )  .
a combination vaccine against diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  pertussis ,  hepatitis b ,  and poliovirus .
a combination vaccine against diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  acellular pertussis ,  and inactivated poliomyelitis for individuals ages from 16 months to 13 years of age .
a vaccine that can be given to children after the age of 2 months up to 2 years to prevent infectious diseases caused by haemophilus influenzae type b  ( hib )  and neisseria meningitidis group c  ( menc )  bacteria .
a vaccine against tetanus ,  diphtheria ,  pertussis ,  and inactivated poliovirus manufactured outside of the u .s .
a vaccine - induced down - regulation gene expression that occurs in live attenuated vaccine and compared with the host system infected with live wild type virulent strain which is the parent strain of this live attenuated vaccine .
a vaccine - induced up - regulation gene expression that occurs in live attenuated vaccine and compared with the host system infected with live wild type virulent strain which is the parent strain of this live attenuated vaccine .
a trivalent influenza vaccine contianing two a influenza strains and one b influenza strain .
http: /  / www .news .sanofi .us / 2014 - 12 - 12 - sanofi - pasteur - announces - fda - approval - of - fluzone - r - intradermal - quadrivalent - influenza - vaccine - for - adults
meningococcal conjugate vaccine ,  which contains four of the most common types of meningococcal bacteria  ( serogroups a ,  c ,  w ,  and y )  ,  is used to prevent infection caused by meningococcal bacteria .
a dtap vaccine used to keep up protection  ( immunity )  against diphtheria ,  tetanus  ( lockjaw )  and pertussis  ( whooping cough )  in children and adults who have been vaccinated for these diseases in the past .
this term was used by the usa vaers system to indicate the source ,  which is foreign to usa here ,  of the vaccine .
https: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / spirochaete
https: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / borrelia
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under yersiniaceae .
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under corynebacterium .
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under bacillus .
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under varicellovirus .
https: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / papillomaviridae
https: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / orthopoxvirus
https: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / orthohepadnavirus
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under reoviridae .
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under sedoreovirinae .
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under morbillivirus .
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under rubulavirus .
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under lyssavirus .
https: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / flaviviridae
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under enterovirus .
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under hepatovirus .
a vaccine that is used against an infection by a pathogen under rubivirus .
replication defective simian adenoviral vector expressing kh ,  a self - cleaving polyprotein comprising l . donovani kmp - 11 and haspb
an ebola virus vaccine that uses a recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus  ( rvsv )  vector expressing an ebola filovirus glycoprotein
2010 - 2011 trivalent seasonal inactivated influenza vaccine 2010 consisting of influenza a virus  ( a / california / 7 / 2009 ( h1n1 )  )  ,  influenza a virus  ( a / texas / 50 / 2012 ( h3n2 )  )  ,  influenza b virus  ( b / brisbane / 60 / 2008 ) 
the gh1 - qbeta vaccine is a novel pandemic - influenza vaccine produced by covalently linking the globular head domain of haemagglutinin  ( gh1 )  from a / california / 07 / 09 produced in e . coli to vlps from the bacteriophage qbeta
fluenz™ is a seasonal trivalent live attenuated influenza vaccine  ( laiv )  administered intranasally .
quadrivalent seasonal inactivated influenza vaccine 2014 consisting of influenza a virus  ( a / california / 7 / 2009 ( h1n1 )  )  ,  influenza a virus  ( a / texas / 50 / 2012 ( h3n2 )  )  ,  influenza b virus  ( b / brisbane / 60 / 2008 )  ,  influenza b virus  ( b / massachusetts / 02 / 2012 ) 
a biological sex datum that represents the biological sex of an animal  ( including human )  as being female .
a biological sex datum that represents the biological sex of an animal  ( including human )  as being intersex .
a vaccine against coronavirus infection
2012 - 2013 trivalent seasonal inactivated influenza vaccine 2012 - 2013  influenza a virus  ( a / california / 7 / 2009  ( h1n1 )  )  ,  influenza a virus  ( a / victoria / 361 / 2011  ( h3n2 )  )  ,  and influenza b virus  ( b / wisconsin / 1 / 2010 ) 
inactivated monovalent influenza a / h5n1  ( 3 .75 mcg hemagglutinin  [ ha ]  a / indonesia / 05 / 2005 )  split - virus  ( sv )  vaccine  ( sanofi ) 
a coronavirus vaccine against the infection of sars - cov - 2  ( cause of covid - 19 ) 
a plasmodium falciparum vaccine that is composed of aseptic ,  purified ,  live  ( metabolically active )  ,  radiation - attenuated ,  cryopreserved plasmodium falciparum sporozite .
the fully infectious pfspz are attenuated in vivo by concomitant administration of an anti - malarial drug  ( chloroquine )  .
sanaria® pfspz - ga1 consists of purified ,  aseptic ,  cryopreserved pf sporozoites  ( nf54 strain )  genetically attenuated by removal of the b9 and slarp genes to halt development in the early liver stages .
a vaccine role that inheres in a vaccine using virus - like particles  ( vlps )  ,  multiprotein structures that mimic the organization and conformation of authentic native viruses but lack the viral genome ,  potentially yielding safer and cheaper vaccines .
a vaccine that uses virus - like particles  ( vlps )  ,  multiprotein structures that mimic the organization and conformation of authentic native viruses but lack the viral genome ,  potentially yielding safer and cheaper vaccines .
vaccine - induced t - helper 1 type immune response that is indicated by the presence of interferon - gamma production
vaccine - induced t - helper 1 type immune response that is indicated by the presence of interleukin - 2 production
vaccine - induced t - helper 2 type immune response that is indicated by the presence of interleukin - 4 production
vaccine - induced t - helper 2 type immune response that is indicated by the presence of interleukin - 10 production
vaccine - induced t - helper 1 type immune response that is indicated by the presence of igg2a production
vaccine - induced t - helper 2 type immune response that is indicated by the presence of igg1 production
the age with the range from the birth to one month after birth at when a vaccination is taken .
a sars - cov - 2 rna vaccine formed from a lipid nanoparticle - formulated trimerized sars - cov - 2 receptor - binding domain
bbv152  ( also known as covaxin )  is an inactivated covid - 19 vaccine that is developed by bharat biotech in collaboration with the indian council of medical research .
a recombinant coronavirus - like particle sars - cov - 2 vaccine developed by medicago
a p . falciparum malaria vaccine that is formed by tull length cs - expressing replication - deficient recombinant human adenovirus 35 .
a sars - cov - 2 trimeric s protein subunit vaccine .
a sars - cov - 2 s1 - rbd - protein based vaccine developed by ubi / ubia group
a sars - cov - 2 replication - defective human adenovirus type 5 / 35 vector based vaccine expressing the s protein .
a sars - cov - 2 - rbd - fc fusion protein designed to induce or boost a th1 / th2 mixed immune response in patients against the receptor binding domain  ( rbd )  of the novel coronavirus spike protein .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcaggsp7 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcaggs / mcs .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pwrg .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label phw2000 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcmv / r .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label vrc - 9123 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label ppjv7563 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label p188 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label vr10551 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label vcl - 1632 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label psport - b - gal .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label psin - b - gal .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label plxshd .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label wrg / ben .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pngvl4a .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pngvl3 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label sincp b - gal .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label synchotrope ta2m .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcmv / myc / er .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label ppa63 - lamp1 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label psectag2b .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label ptpa - pa63 - lamp1 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label ptpa - pa63 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label vr2210 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcmv - tpa / zs7 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pabb - crs2 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pmasia - tgd .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcmvi - ub .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pci30 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcp15 / 60 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pumvc3 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcdna1 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcat .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pgt36 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label vr1040 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pctpa .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pmv10 .1 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pet11d .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pumvc4b .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label prc .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pak - 4 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcmvi (  - h3 ) ubs .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label auxo - gtu .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcmn160 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label v1jns .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pnd - 14 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label psectag2a .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label prc / cmv - hbs ( s )  .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcdna .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label provax .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label p1012 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label puse -  .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label apl023 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pegfp - n1 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcdl - sra296 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pusk .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pubiq .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcdna3 .1 / hygro (  -  )  .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcmv3iss .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pwrg7079 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pvr1020 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label nkcmvintpolyli .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcdna3 .1 / v5 - his - topo .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pires1neo .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label prc / rsv .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pci - tpa .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcsivgag .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pvacc4 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pbc12b1 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pgfp .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcmv - beta .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label psw3891 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pjw4304 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pgt146 - mil - 12 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pdnavacc .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label vr1055 .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label prsc .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pcdna3 .1 ( zeo )  +  .
a dna vaccine plasmid vector that has the plasmid label pvf .
a sars - cov - 2 vaccine consisting of autologous dendritic cells previously loaded ex vivo with spike protein .
a sars - cov - 2 vaccine that includes a protein antigen ,  sars - cov - 2 spike rbd ,  adsorbed to the adjuvant alhydrogel  ( alum )  ,  in combination with another approved adjuvant ,  cpg 1018
a sars - cov - 2 protein subunit vaccine based on recombinant rbd subunits manufactured by the center for genetic engineering and biotechnology  ( cigb )  .
a sars - cov - 2 protein subunit vaccine based on recombinant rbd subunits manufactured by the center for genetic engineering and biotechnology  ( cigb )  .
an influenza virus vector sars - cov - 2 vaccine administered as an intranasal spray
a sars - cov - 2 protein subunit vaccine that relies on chemically synthesized peptide antigens of sars - cov - 2 proteins ,  conjugated to a carrier protein and adsorbed on an aluminum - containing adjuvant  ( aluminum hydroxide )  .
a sars - cov - 2 plasmid dna vaccine developed by geneone life science .
a rvsv - sars - cov - 2 - s vaccine developed by the israel institute for biological research  ( iibr ) 
a sars - cov - 2 recombinant vector vaccine by shenzhen geno - immune medical institute
a sars - cov - 2 subunit vaccine with recombinant sars - cov - 2 spike  ( s )  protein and aluminum phosphate adjuvant
a sars - cov - 2 inactivated vaccine manufactured by the research institute for biological safety problems  ( republic of kazakhstan ) 
a sars - cov - 2 virus - like particle vaccine that contains the receptor binding domain  ( rbd )  of the sars - cov - 2 spike  ( s )  protein and is adjuvanted with aluminum .
a sars - cov - 2 protein subunit vaccine by west china hospital
a sars - cov - 2 subunit vaccine developed by finlay vaccine institute  ( ifv ) 
a sars - cov - 2 vaccine candidate that uses a measles virus vector platform ,  and is made by merck
a sars - cov - 2 inactivated ,  vero - cell based vaccine adjuvanted with aluminum and cpg 1018 .
'a sars dna vaccine that is made from recombinant plasmid containing nucleocapsid protein  ( n )  sequence constructed then expressed and purified from e . coli bacteria’
'a sars dna combination vaccine that is made from recombinant plasmids’ containing membrane protein  ( m )  and nucleocapsid protein  ( n )  sequences constructed then expressed and purified from e . coli bacteria’
'a sars  dna vaccine that is made from recombinant plasmid containing membrane protein  ( m )  sequence constructed then expressed and purified from e . coli bacteria’
'a sars dna vaccine that is made from  oral live - attenuated auxotrophic s . typhimurium aroa strain sl7207 that contained ctla4hingesars800 with sars - cov s protein‘
a sars dna vaccine that is made from  intraperitoneal recombinant spike polypeptide generated by amplififying gene encoding amino acids residues 14 - 667 of s protein that was cloned bamhi and kpni sites of vector pqe - 31 that was generated by escherichia coli
a sars dna vaccine that is made from  ctla4hingesars800 dna with sars - cov s protein
a sars dna vaccine that is made from tpa - optimize800 dna with sars - cov s protein
a sars dna vaccine made from  ctla4hingesars800 dna with sars - cov s protein
a sars recombinant vector vaccine that is made  from of the highly attenuated modified vaccinia virus ankara  ( mva )  containing the gene encoding full - length sars - cov s
a sars recombinant vector vaccine that is made from  recombinant ma15 virulent mouse - adapted sars - cov  ( ma15 )  background of e - deleted vaccine candidate  ( rma15 - δe ) 
a sars recombinant vector vaccine that is made from a recombinant live - attenuated modified vaccinia virus ankara  ( mva )  that had a full - length sars - cov envelope spike  ( s )  glycoprotein gene introduced into the deletion iii region of the mva genome .
a mers subunit vaccine that has a combined adjuvant of aluminum hydroxide and cpg oligodeoxynucleotides .
a mers inactivated whole virus vaccine that has a combined adjuvant that has a combined adjuvant of aluminum hydroxide and cpg oligodeoxynucleotides .
a sars recombinant vector vaccine made from a recombinant form of the highly attenuated modified vaccinia virus ankara  ( mva )  containing the gene encoding full - length sars - cov s
a sars inactivated vaccine made from whole killed  ( inactivated by beta - propiolactone )  sars - cov
a sars recombinant vector vaccine made of combination of two adenovirus - based vectors ,  one expressing the nucleocapsid  ( n )  and the other expressing the spike  ( s )  protein
a mers recombinant vector vaccine made of a recombinant adenoviral vector encoding the  the s1 extracellular domain of s protein
a mers recombinant vector vaccine made of a recombinant adenoviral vector encoding the full - length mers - cov s protein  ( ad5 .mers - s ) 
a mers dna vaccine made of plasmid  that encoded s1 subunit only
a mers combination vaccine made of made of the vrc8400 plasmid that encodes the full - length ,  membrane anchore mers spike protein and a dna vaccine that is a plasmid  that encoded s1 subunit
a mers dna vaccine made of the vrc8400 plasmid that encodes the full - length ,  membrane anchore mers spike protein
a mers subunit vaccine made of neutralizing monoclonal antibodiesagainst mers - cov which bind to the ribosomal binding domain  ( rbd )  of the mers - cov s protein that was expressed by baculovirus - insect cell sf9 - derived recombinant mers - cov .
a mers dna vaccine made of plasmid that encodes the first 725 amino acids of s from mers - cov
a mers recombinant vector virus made from chimeric virus based on the vesicular stomatitis virus  ( vsv )  in which the g gene was replaced by mers - cov s gene  ( vsvδg - mers )  .
a mers subunit vaccine made of a neutralizing monoclonal antibodiesagainst mers - cov which bind to the n - terminal domain  ( ntd )  of the mers - cov s1 subunit that was expressed by baculovirus - insect cell sf9 - derived recombinant mers - cov .
a sars inactivated vaccine made from inactivated whole virus by formalin and ultraviolet radiation ,  hence double inactivated  ( di )  vaccine
a sars dna vaccine made from rdna - expressed ectodomain of the s protein .
a sars vlp vaccine made from the sars - cov spike protein  ( s )  and the nucleocapsid  ( n )  ,  envelope  ( e )  and membrane  ( m )  proteins from mouse hepatitis coronavirus  ( mhv ) 
a sars inactivated vaccine made from sars - cov inactivated by ultraviolet radiation and a toll - like receptor agonist adjuvant is added to prevent eosinophilic immunopathology
a sars inactivated vaccine made from sars - cov inactivated by ultraviolet radiation
a mers recombinant vector made from venezuelan equine encephalitis replicons bearing epitopes of n protein from mers .
a sars recombinant vector vaccine made from venezuelan equine encephalitis replicons  ( vrp )  encoding a sars - cov cd4 +  t cell epitope vaccinated intranasally .
a mers dna vaccine made of plasmid vaccines that encoded s1 subunit only
a mers recombinant vector vaccine made of live - attenuated measles virus  ( mv )  vaccine encoding the mers - cov spike protein  ( mers - s )  .
a mers recombinant vector vaccine made of live - attenuated measles virus  ( mv )  vaccine encoding the mers - cov nucleocapsid protein  ( mers - n )  .
a mers recombinant vector made of  chimpanzee adenovirus oxford 1 vector expressing s protein from mers - cov’
a mers recombinant vector made of adenovirus type 41 used as vector for mers - cov s protein .’
a mers vlp vaccine made from  a recombinant baculovirus co - expresssing the spike s ,  envelope  ( e )  ,  and membrane  ( m )  proteins of mers .
a sars dna vaccine made from  encoding calrectulin linked to a sars - cov n protein
a sars recombinant vector vaccine made from a line attenuated and recombinant sars - cov lacking the e gene
a mers recombinant vector made of mvvac2  ( measle virus )  expressing a soluble ,  truncated version of spike glycoprotein of mers - cov in its full length cloned into the mvvac2 genome and rescued .
a sars - cov - 2 whole virus vaccine made from a purified inactivated sars - cov - 2 virus .
a sars - cov - 2 subunit vaccine composed of the sars - cov - 2 s protein receptor - binding domain produced in chinese hamster ovary  ( cho )  cells and adjuvant aluminum hydroxide .
a sars - cov - 2 rna vaccine made of self - coding rna encoding sars - cov - 2 spike protein encapsulated within a lipid nanoparticle .
a sars - cov - 2 vaccine made of self - coding rna encoding sars - cov - 2 spike protein encapsulated within a lipid nanoparticle .
a mers dna vaccine that is made of the plasmid pgx9109 expressing mers s protein .
a sars dna vaccine made of a single closed plasmid dna marcromolecule  ( vrc - 8138 )  that produces a deletion mutant of the sars spike glycoprotein
a sars - cov recombinant vector vaccine that is made from the newcastle disease virus from the mesogenic beaudette c strainexpressing sars - cov s protein .
a sars - cov recombinant vector vaccine that is made from the newcastle disease virus from  the lentogenic lasota strain expressing sars - cov s protein .
a sars dna vaccine made from rdna - expressed ectodomain of the s protein .
a sars dna vaccine made up of arecombinat vector vaccine made from recombinant measles virus expressing s protein and recombinant measles virus expressing n protein .
a sars - cov recombinant vector made from a baculovirus vector expressing sars - cov s protein .
a mers recombinant vector made of recombinant modified vaccinia virus ankara  ( rmva )  vaccine vector carrying full mers - cov spike glycoprotein .
a sars - cov - 2 single dose intranasal vaccine manufactured by altimmune in collaboration with the university of alabama - birmingham .
a plasmid pci - n ,  encoding the full - length n gene of sars - cov ,  was constructed and expressed in escherichia coli dh5alpha
a sars - cov 2  ( rsars - cov - 2 )  subunit vaccine made of nanoparticles composed of a trimeric full - length sars - cov - 2 spike glycoprotein and matrix - m1 adjuvant .
a sars - cov - 2 rna vaccine that has a lipid nanoparticle  ( lnp )  platform and spike protein antigen
a sars - cov2 rna vaccine made of lipid nanoparticle with mrna which encodes the s - 2p antigen ,  made of the sars - cov - 2 glycoprotein with a transmembrane anchor and intact s1 - s2 cleavage site .
a sars - cov2 recombinat vector vaccine made of a chimpanzee adenovirus - vectored vaccine expressing the sars - cov - 2 spike protein
a sars - cov - 2 recombinant viral vector vaccine composed of ad26 vector expressing s protein .
a sars - cov - 2 inactivated whole virus vaccine that is developed by the wuhan institute of biological products .
a sars - cov - 2 mrna vaccine made of lipid nanoparticle - encapsulated mrna  ( mrna - lnp )  encoding the receptor binding domain  ( rbd )  of sars - cov - 2
a sars - cov - 2 plasmid dna vaccine that encodes the envelope protein .
a sars - cov - 2 recombinant viral vector vaccine composed of ad26 and ad5 vectors expressing s protein that lyophilised .
a sars - cov - 2 investigational vaccine comprising a self - replicating  ( replicon )  mrna that encodes for the prefusion spike protein of 2019 - ncov formulated in a lipid nanoparticle
a sars - cov - 2 dna vaccine developed by anges .
a sars - cov - 2 inactivated whole virus vaccine that produced in vero cells that is developed by the beijing institute of biological products .
a sars - cov - 2 inactivated whole virus vaccine that is developed by the chinese academy of medical sciences  .
a sars - cov - 2 mrna vaccine developed by curevac ag and cepi .
a sars - cov 2 recombinant viral vector using gorilla adenovirus that encodes for sars - cov - 2 spike protein .
a sars - cov - 2 dna vaccine expressing the sars - cov - 2 s protein
a sars - cov - 2 subunit vaccine that is made of a protein subunit made of the rbd domain of the s protein .
a dna vaccine that expresses s protein from the pgx9501 vector
adimrsc - 2f is a candidate vaccine against covid - 19 developed by adimmune corporation  ( adimmune )  .
a sars - cov - 2 oral dna vaccine that delivers plasmids containing synthetic dna encoding spike protein from sars - cov - 2 .
a sars - cov - 2 mrna vaccine manufactured by chulalongkorn university
a synthetic modified vaccinia ankara  ( mva )  - based sars - cov - 2 vaccine
a nanoparticle vector composed of lipids .
a vaccine component composed of a synthetic component that is solid and spherical structures ranging to around 100 nm in size and prepared from natural or synthetic polymers .
a chimpanzee adenovirus vaccine vector that  patented by oxford and derived from chad serotype y25 that exchanges the native e4 orf4 ,  orf6 and orf6 / 7 genes for those from hadv - c5
a chimpanzee adenovirus vaccine vector developed by oxford by deleting e1 / e3  from chad68 with a modified e4 region .
a sars - cov - 2 dna vaccine developed by providence health & services .
a sars - cov - 2 recombinant vector vaccine employing the lentiviral vector system and developed by shenzhen geno - immune medical institute .
a prophylactic plasmid dna vaccine for sars cov - 2 by entos pharmaceuticals
a sars - cov - 2 live ,  attenuated vaccine manufactured by codagenix ,  inc .
a sars - cov - 2 inactivated vaccine developed by health institutes of turkey
a sars - cov - 2 human adenovirus serotype 5  ( had5 )  vector vaccine with e1 / e2b / e3 deletions expressing sars - cov - 2 viral antigen spike fusion protein and nucleocapsid with an enhanced t - cell stimulation domain .
a sars - cov - 2 subunit vaccine developed by university hospital tuebingen
a sars - cov - 2 recombinant vector vaccine that contains a modified vaccinia virus ankara  ( mva )  vector expressing the sars - cov - 2 spike protein  ( s ) 
a sars - cov - 2 subunit vaccine that contains the spike  ( s )  protein with cpg 1018 and aluminum content as adjuvant .
a sars - cov - 2 protein subunit vaccine developed by vaxine pty ltd and adjuvanted with advax
a sars - cov - 2 subunit vaccine with the s1 component of the sars - cov - 2 spike  ( s )  protein and swe adjuvant .
a sars - cov - 2 vaccine candidate that uses a recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus  ( rvsv )  platform ,  and is made by merck .
a sars - cov - 2 adenoviral vector - based oral vaccine by vaxart expressing a sars - cov - 2 antigen and dsrna adjuvant
a sars - cov - 2 protein subunit vaccine manufactured by sk bioscience co . ,  ltd . ,  and equipped with an aluminum hydroxide adjuvant
a vaccine adjuvant comprised of 40 nm nanoparticles composed of quillaja saponins ,  cholesterol and phospholipid .
a polysaccharide adjuvant derived from delta inulin
a sars - cov - 2 protein subunit vaccine manufactured by the razi vaccine and serum research institute with a spike protein antigen
a sars - cov - 2 recombinant adenoviral vector vaccine that is manufactured by bharat biotech international ltd . and administered intranasally
a sars - cov - 2 chimpanzee adenovirus serotype 6 vector vaccine manufactured by gritstone oncology and the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases
a sars - cov - 2 inactivated vaccine by shifa pharmed
a sars - cov - 2 plasmid dna vaccine manufactured by takis and rottapharm biotech
a sars - cov - 2 dna vaccine manufactured by university of sydney ,  bionet co . ,  and technovalia
a sars - cov - 2  lipid nanoparticle  ( lnp )  - encapsulated mrna - based vaccine that encodes for a full - length ,  prefusion stabilized s protein of the sars - cov - 2 b .1 .351 variant
a sars - cov - 2 protein subunit vaccine by sk bioscience
a sars - cov - 2 recombinant viral vector vaccine by mahidol university
a sars - cov - 2 mrna vaccine by providence therapeutics
a sars - cov - 2 protein subunit vaccine manufactured by walter reed army institute of research
a sars - cov - 2 virus - like particle vaccine that expresses a modified version of the sars - cov - 2 spike  ( s )  glycoprotein and is equipped with an aluminum phosphate adjuvant .
a sars - cov - 2 inactivated vaccine developed by organization of defensive innovation and research in iran
a sars - cov - 2 live ,  attenuated vaccine manufactured by meissa vaccines ,  inc . that expresses the spike  ( s )  protein of sars - cov - 2 .
a sars - cov - 2 mrna vaccine that is manufactured by sanofi pasteur
a viral vaccine that protects against infection with rubella virus .
a vaccine regulation for vaccine safety .
a vaccine regulatory process that is for vaccine regulatory agent to review vaccine license application from vaccine producer .
a measles - rubella vaccine that is live attenuated and manufactured by glaxosmithkline biologicals .
a combination vaccine that protects infants from diphtheria ,  tetanus ,  pertussis  ( whooping cough )  ,  polio ,  hepatitis b and haemophilus influenzae type b  ( hib )  .
a live attenuated v . cholerae vaccine that is manufactured by berna biotech ,  ltd .
a polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine used to protectsagainst serious infection  ( e .g . ,  meningitis ,  bacteria in the blood )  due to streptococcus pneumoniae ,  and it is manufactured by sanofi pasteur .
a mmr vaccine that is manufactured by glaxosmithkline biologicals .
a measles - mumps - rubella - vericella vaccine that is live attenuated and manufactured by glaxosmithkline biologicals .
a protein from a bacterium
a protein from a virus
a protein from a parasite
a protein from fungus
a coccidioides vaccine that contains c . posadasii pmp1 protein
a coccidioides vaccine that contains c . posadasii dna vaccine encoding pra protein
a coccidioides vaccine that contains c . immitis subunit ure protein
a multivalent vaccine against tetanus ,  diphtheria ,  and poliomyelitis .
a coccidioides vaccine that contains c . posadasii subunit gel1 protein
a vaccine that protects against leishmania amazonensis .
a vaccine that protects against leishmania infantum .
a vaccine that protects against cryptosporidium parvum .
a vaccine that protects against bovine leukemia virus .
a vaccine that protects against marek's ;  disease virus .
a vaccine that protects against marburg virus .
a vaccine that protects against infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus .
a vaccine that protects against rift valley fever virus .
a vaccine that protects against hantavirus .
a vaccine that protects against herpes simplex virus type 1 and 2 .
a vaccine that protects against nipah virus .
a vaccine that protects against hendra virus .
a vaccine that protects against entamoeba histolytica .
a chlamydia vaccine that protects against chlamydophila pneumoniae .
a chlamydia bacterial vaccine against chlamydophila psittaci infection
a vaccine that protects against burkholderia pseudomallei .
a chlamydia vaccine that protects against chlamydia muridarum .
a vaccine that protects against lassa fever virus .
a vaccine that protects against canine distemper virus .
a vaccine that protects against coccidioides spp .
a vaccine that protects against canine parvovirus .
a vaccine that protects against helicobacter pylori .
a campylobacter vaccine that protects against campylobacter jejuni .
a vaccine that protects against sars - cov .
a vaccine that protects against trypanosoma brucei .
a vaccine that protects against haemophilus influenzae .
a vaccine that protects against yersinia enterocolitica .
a vaccine that protects against clostridium botulinum  .
a vaccine that protects against western equine encephalomyelitis virus .
a vaccine that protects against tick - borne encephalitis virus  ( tbev )  .
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a cancer vaccine
a vaccine preparation that results in the generation of a allergy vaccine
a role that inheres in a cell line repository organization .
a sars - cov - 2 rna vaccine that is made up of a lipid nanoparticle encapsulating a self - amplifiying of sars - cov - 2 spike protein .
