cellulitis is a musculoskeletal system symptom characterized as a diffuse and especially subcutaneous inflammation of connective tissue .
ataxia is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by an inability to coordinate voluntary muscular movements that is symptomatic of some nervous disorders .
backache is a pain occurring in the lower back .
a general symptom that is characterized as an act ,  instance ,  or result of being bled or the process by which something is bled: as a the escape of blood from vessels .
blister is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a fluid - filled elevation of the epidermis .
confusion is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a disturbance of consciousness characterized by inability to engage in orderly thought or by lack of power to distinguish ,  choose ,  or act decisively .
dehydration is a nutrition ,  metabolism ,  and development symptom characterized by an abnormal depletion of body fluids .
delirium is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a mental disturbance characterized by confusion ,  disordered speech ,  and hallucinations .
disorientation is a confusion characterized by a usually transient state of confusion especially as to time ,  place ,  or identity often as a result of disease or drugs .
paralysis is a nervous system symptom characterized by a complete or partial loss of function especially when involving the power of motion or of sensation in any part of the body .
enteritis is a digestive system symptom involving the inflammation of the small intestines and especially of the human ileum .
a urinary system symptom characterized by the presence of blood or blood cells in the urine .
hyperpigmentation is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an excess pigmentation in a bodily part or tissue ,  as the skin .
inflammation is a general symptom where there is a local response to cellular injury that is marked by capillary dilatation ,  leukocytic infiltration ,  redness ,  heat ,  pain ,  swelling ,  and often loss of function and that serves as a mechanism initiating the elimination of noxious agents and of damaged tissue .
lethargy is a fatigue characterized as abnormal drowsiness .
meningoencephalitis is a nervous system symptom characterized as an inflammation of the brain and meninges .
skin lesion is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an abnormal change in structure of the skin that is especially circumscribed and well defined due to injury or disease .
nephritis is a urinary system symptom characterized by the acute or chronic inflammation of the kidney affecting the structure  ( as of the glomerulus or parenchyma )  and caused by infection ,  a degenerative process ,  or vascular disease .
a sensation perception where there is an unpleasant sensation that usually indicates the body is threatened or damaged .
peritonitis is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an inflammation of the peritoneum .
a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an exudation of fluid from the blood or lymph into a pleural cavity .
prostration is a general symptom characterized by complete physical or mental exhaustion .
rales is a abnormal chest sound characterized by the clicking ,  rattling ,  or crackling noises heard on auscultation of  ( listening to )  the lung with a stethoscope during inhalation .
necrosis is a general symptom where death of a portion of tissue differentially affected by local injury  ( as loss of blood supply ,  corrosion ,  burning ,  or the local lesion of a disease )  .
skin ulcer is a skin lesion characterized as a break in skin with loss of surface tissue ,  disintegration and necrosis of epithelial tissue ,  and often pus .
sneezing is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by a sudden violent spasmodic audible expiration of breath through the nose and mouth especially as a reflex act following irritation of the nasal mucous membrane .
thirst is a general symptom characterized by a sensation of dryness in the mouth and throat associated with a desire for liquids .
tremor is a generial symptom characterized by a trembling or shaking usually from physical weakness ,  emotional stress ,  or disease .
wasting is a nutrition ,  metabolism ,  and development symptom characterized by the unintended loss of weight and lean body tissue characteristic of many diseases  ( as cancer ,  tuberculosis ,  and aids )  .
abortion is a reproductive system symptom resulting in the expulsion of a fetus of a domestic animal often due to infection at any time before completion of pregnancy .
miscarriage is a reproductive system symptom characterized by the spontaneous expulsion of a human fetus before it is viable and especially between the 12th and 28th weeks of gestation .
spontaneous abortion is a abortion characterized by the naturally occurring expulsion of a nonviable fetus .
afebrile is a fever that is characterized as the state of being free from fever .
agraphia is a aphasia where there is a pathological loss of the ability to write .
anomia is a aphasia characterized by a severe problem with recalling words or names .
receptive aphasia is a inability to comprehend speech characterized by an inability to understand spoken ,  written ,  or tactile speech symbols that results from damage  ( as by a brain lesion )  to an area of the brain  ( as wernicke's area )  concerned with language .
a cardiac fibrillation consisting of a very rapid uncoordinated contractions of the atria of the heart resulting in a lack of synchronism between heartbeat and pulse beat .
bradycardia is a cardiovascular system symptom consisting of a relatively slow heart action whether physiological or pathological .
bronchiolitis is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by an inflammation of the bronchioles .
coilc is a pain characterized by the condition marked by recurrent episodes of prolonged and uncontrollable crying and irritability in an otherwise healthy infant that is of unknown cause and usually subsides after three to four months of age .
colicky pain is a pain characterized by an attack of acute abdominal pain localized in a hollow organ or part  ( as the small intestine ,  ureter ,  or bile duct )  and often caused by spasm ,  obstruction ,  or twisting .
congestion is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by an excessive accumulation especially of blood or mucus .
cyclic fever is a fever that occurs during periodic episodes .
decreased conscious proprioception is a proprioception symptom characterized as a decreased ability of an organism to consciously process the reception of stimuli produced within the organism .
epididymitis is a reproductive system symptom characterized by an inflammation of the epididymis .
flaccid paralysis is a paralysis where muscle tone is lacking in the affected muscles and in which tendon reflexes are decreased or absent .
arrhythmia is a cardiovascular system symptom consisting of an alteration in rhythm of the heartbeat either in time or force .
eczema is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an inflammatory condition of the skin characterized by redness ,  itching ,  and oozing vesicular lesions which become scaly ,  crusted ,  or hardened .
belching is a digestive system symptom involving the sudden expulsion of gas from the stomach through the mouth .
hyperemia is a hemic system symptom consisting of an excess of blood in a body part as from an increased flow of blood due to vasodilation .
hyperesthesia is a general symptom where there is an increased sensitivity to stimulation .
hypothermia is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a subnormal temperature of the body as defined by a temperature under 36 .6 degrees celcius .
a feces and droppings symptom that is characterized by the passage of dark tarry stools containing decomposing blood that is usually an indication of bleeding in the upper part of the alimentary canal and especially the esophagus ,  stomach ,  and duodenum .
bronchitis is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by an acute or chronic inflammation of the bronchial tubes .
papule is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a small solid usually conical elevation of the skin caused by inflammation ,  accumulated secretion ,  or hypertrophy of tissue elements .
phlegm is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by a viscid mucus secreted in abnormal quantity in the respiratory passages .
pneumonitis is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by an inflammation of lung tissue .
premature labor is a reproductive system symptom characterized by labor occurring before 37 full weeks of pregnancy .
proteinuria is a urinary system symptom characterized by the presence of excess protein in the urine .
ptosis is a general symptom characterized by a sagging or prolapse of an organ or part .
runny nose is a nose symptom characterized by an excessive mucous secretion from the nose .
mastitis is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an inflammation of the mammary gland or udder usually caused by infection .
vertigo is a dizziness characterized by a specific type of dizziness ,  a major symptom of a balance disorder .
cachexia is a nutrition ,  metabolism ,  and development symptom characterized by a general physical wasting and malnutrition usually associated with chronic disease .
vaginismus is a reproductive system symptom characterized by a painful spasmodic contraction of the vagina .
bruise is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an injury transmitted through unbroken skin to underlying tissue causing rupture of small blood vessels and escape of blood into the tissue with resulting discoloration .
cataplexy is a muscle symptom characterized by a sudden loss of muscle control with retention of clear consciousness that follows a strong emotional stimulus  ( as elation ,  surprise ,  or anger )  and is a characteristic symptom of narcolepsy .
hyperthermia is a fever that involves an exceptionally high fever especially when induced artificially for therapeutic purposes .
anxiety is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a painful or apprehensive uneasiness of mind usually over an impending or anticipated ill .
catatonia is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a marked psychomotor disturbance that may involve stupor or mutism ,  negativism ,  rigidity ,  purposeless excitement ,  echolalia ,  echopraxia ,  and inappropriate or bizarre posturing and is associated with various medical conditions  ( as schizophrenia and mood disorders )  .
dysarthria is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a difficulty in articulating words due to disease of the central nervous system .
bloating is a digestive system symptom involving the accumulation of gas in the digestive tract and resulting in abdominal distension .
dyspepsia is a digestive system symptom referred to as indigestion resulting from an impairment to digestion caused by ulcer ,  gall bladder disease or inflamed colon .
a pain that is a leg pain in the calf or thigh which is caused by inadequate blood flow to the leg muscles brought on by leg exercise such as walking .
impotence is a reproductive system symptom characterized by an abnormal physical or psychological state of a male characterized by inability to copulate because of failure to have or maintain an erection .
hypoventilation is a respiratory abnormality characterized by a deficient ventilation of the lungs that results in reduction in the oxygen content or increase in the carbon dioxide content of the blood or both .
bradypnea is a respiratory abnormality characterized by abnormally slow breathing .
pleuritic chest pain is a chest pain caused by an inflammation of the pleural cavity with a sharp pain resulting from the exansion of the lungs as the inflammed pleural layers rub against each other .
a respiratory system symptom consisting of the matter discharged from the air passages in diseases of the lungs ,  bronchi ,  or upper respiratory tract that contains mucus and often pus ,  blood ,  fibrin ,  or bacterial products .
itching is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an uneasy irritating sensation in the upper surface of the skin usually held to result from mild stimulation of pain receptors .
anasarca is a edema characterized as generalized edema with accumulation of serum in the connective tissue .
urticaria is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized  \ nby raised red skin wheals  ( welts )  commonly caused by an allergic reaction with wheals that may vary in size from about 5 mm  ( 0 .2 inches )  in diameter to the size of a dinner plate that are described as severely itchy a stingnig or burning sensation ,  and having a pale border .
paresthesia is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a sensation of pricking ,  tingling ,  or creeping on the skin having no objective cause and usually associated with injury or irritation of a sensory nerve or nerve root .
heartburn is a pain characterized by a painful burning feeling in your chest or throat that happens when stomach acid backs up into your esophagus .
faint is a alteration of consciousness characterized by a loss of consciousness because of a temporary decrease in the blood supply to the brain .
bloody sputum is a sputum that consists of blood or bloody mucus discharged from the air passages caused by common forms of infection in the lungs and airways ,  such as acute bronchitis or pneumonia .
a nose symptom that involves a is loss of blood from the tissue lining the nose .
a cardiovascular system symptom that is characterized as a state of profound depression of the vital processes of the body that is characterized by pallor ,  rapid but weak pulse ,  rapid and shallow respiration ,  reduced total blood volume ,  and low blood pressure and that is caused usually by severe especially crushing injuries ,  hemorrhage ,  burns ,  or major surgery .
nausea is a digestive system symptom characterized by an uneasy or unsettled feeling in the stomach together with an urge to vomit .
a symptom is a perceived change in function ,  sensation ,  loss ,  disturbance or appearance reported by a patient indicative of a disease .
abnormality of gait is a nervous system and musculoskeletal system symptom characterized by a difficulty in the manner of walking or moving on foot .
dysuria is a urinary system symptom characterized by the difficult or painful discharge of urine .
a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an eruption on the body typically with little or no elevation above the surface .
urinary incontinence is a urinary system symptom characterized by the an inability of the body to control the evacuative functions .
renal colic is a colic characterized by the severe pain produced by the passage of a calculus from the kidney through the ureter .
headache is a pain characterized by a pain in the head .
throat pain is a pain that is characterized by a painful throat due to inflammation of the fauces and pharynx .
aphasia is a nervous system symptom characterized by a loss or impairment of the power to use or comprehend words usually resulting from brain damage .
pallor is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a deficiency of color especially of the face .
flushing is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a markedly red flush in a persons face and often other areas of the skin ,  from various physiological conditions .
stridor is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by a harsh vibrating sound heard during respiration in cases of obstruction of the air passages .
hiccough is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by a spasmodic inhalation with closure of the glottis accompanied by a peculiar sound .
hemoptysis is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by an expectoration of blood from some part of the respiratory tract .
anorexia is a nutrition ,  metabolism ,  and development symptom characterized by a loss of appetite especially when prolonged .
polyphagia is a nutrition ,  metabolism ,  and development symptom characterized by an excessive appetite or eating .
an abdominal symptom consisting of an abnormal accumulation of serous fluid in the spaces between tissues and organs in the cavity of the abdomen .
tachycardia is a cardiovascular system symptom consisting of a relatively rapid heart action whether physiological  ( as after exercise )  or pathological .
palpitation is a cardiovascykar system symptom characterized by an abnormal awareness of the beating of the heart , whether it is too slow ,  too fast ,  irregular ,  or at its normal frequency when excited by violent exertion ,  strong emotion ,  or disease .
urge incontinence is a urinary incontinence characterized by an involuntary leakage of urine from the bladder when a sudden strong need to urinate is felt .
spontaneous ecchymoses is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as the spontaneous escape of blood into the tissues from ruptured blood vessels marked by a livid black - and - blue or purple spot or area .
cyanosis is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a bluish or purplish discoloration  ( as of skin )  due to deficient oxygenation of the blood .
a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an abnormal excess accumulation of serous fluid in connective tissue or in a serous cavity .
jaundice is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a skin and integumentary symptom where a yellowish pigmentation of the skin ,  tissues ,  and certain body fluids is caused by the deposition of bile pigments that follows interference with normal production and discharge of bile  ( as in certain liver diseases )  or excessive breakdown of red blood cells  ( as after internal hemorrhage or in various hemolytic states )  .
meningismus is a nervous system symptom characterized as a state of meningeal irritation with symptoms suggesting meningitis that often occurs at the onset of acute febrile diseases especially in children .
polydipsia is a nutrition ,  metabolism ,  and development symptom characterized by an excessive or abnormal thirst .
nocturia is a urinary system symptom characterized by urination at night especially when excessive .
polyuria is a urinary system symptom characterized by the excessive secretion of urine .
oliguria is a urinary system symptom characterized by the reduced excretion of urine .
diarrhea is a feces and droppng symptom involving the abnormally frequent intestinal evacuations with more or less fluid stools .
insomnia is a sleep disturbance characterized by prolonged and usually abnormal inability to obtain adequate sleep .
sleep apnea is a apnea characterized by brief periods of recurrent cessation of breathing during sleep that is caused especially by obstruction of the airway or a disturbance in the brain's respiratory center and is associated especially with excessive daytime sleepiness .
hypersomnia is a sleep disturbance characterized by sleeping for excessive periods at intervals with intervening periods of normal duration of sleeping and waking .
apnea is a respiratory abnormality characterized by transient cessation of respiration whether normal  ( as in hibernating animals )  or abnormal  ( as that caused by certain drugs )  .
hyperventilation is a respiratory abnormality characterized by excessive ventilation characterized by excessive rate and depth of respiration leading to abnormal loss of carbon dioxide from the blood .
orthopnea is a respiratory abnormality characterized by a difficulty in breathing that occurs when lying down and is relieved upon changing to an upright position  ( as in congestive heart failure )  .
tachypnea is a respiratory abnormality characterized by an increased rate of respiration .
wheezing is a respiratory abnormality characterized by breathing with difficulty usually with a whistling sound .
hallucination is a general symptom where there is a perception of something  ( as a visual image or a sound )  with no external cause usually arising from a disorder of the nervous system  ( as in delirium tremens or in functional psychosis without known neurological disease )  or in response to drugs  ( as lsd )  .
dizziness is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a sensation of unsteadiness accompanied by a feeling of movement within the head .
fever is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a rise of body temperature above the normal whether a natural response  ( as to infection )  or artificially induced for therapeutic reasons .
cough is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by an explosive expulsion of air from the lungs acting as a protective mechanism to clear the air passages or as a symptom of pulmonary disturbance .
alexia is a aphasia characterized by loss of ability to read .
exanthema is a rash characterized by a widespread skin eruption usually occurring in children that is a symptom of a more general disease .
synovitis is a joint inflammation characterized by an inflammation of a synovial membrane usually with pain and swelling of the joint .
tache noire is a skin ulcer characterized by a small dark - centered ulcer that appears at the site of a tick bite and is the primary lesion of boutonneuse fever .
a behavioral symptom characterized by a quick excitability to annoyance ,  impatience ,  or anger .
pareses is a paralysis charachterized by slight or partial paralysis .
shakes is a general symptom characterized by a condition of trembling .
bradykinesia is a hypokinesia characterized by an extreme slowness in the execution of movements and reflexes .
acute diarrhea is a diarrhea with either or both a rapid onset or a short course .
acute enteritis is a enteritis with either or both a rapid onset and a short course which is usually due to bacteria or virus .
tachypnoea is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by an increased rate of respiration .
chronic cough is a cough characterized by an explosive expulsion of air from the lungs acting as a protective mechanism to clear the air passages or as a symptom of pulmonary disturbance marked by long duration ,  by frequent recurrence over a long time ,  and often by slowly progressing seriousness .
chronic fatigue syndrome is a fatigue characterized by a disorder of uncertain cause that is characterized by persistent profound fatigue usually accompanied by impairment in short - term memory or concentration ,  sore throat ,  tender lymph nodes ,  muscle or joint pain ,  and headache unrelated to any preexisting medical condition and that typically has an onset at about 30 years of age .
expressive aphasia is a aphasia caused by damage to or developmental issues in anterior regions of the brain ,  including  ( but not limited to )  the left inferior frontal region known as broca's area .
infertility is a reproductive system symptom characterized as the biological inability of a man or a woman to contribute to conception or the state of a woman who is unable to carry a pregnancy to full term .
a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized by the peeling off of skin in the form of scales .
stroke is a nervous system symptom characterized by a sudden diminution or loss of consciousness ,  sensation ,  and voluntary motion caused by rupture or obstruction  ( as by a clot )  of a blood vessel of the brain .
gum bleeding is a mouth symptom characterized by a copious discharge of blood from the blood vessels of the mucosal tissue that lies over the alveolar bone .
enanthem is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as an eruption on a mucous surface .
a reproductive system symptom characterized by an abnormally profuse menstrual flow .
a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a minute reddish or purplish spot containing blood that appears in skin or mucous membrane as a result of localized hemorrhage .
chronic enteritis is a enteritis with slow progress ,  long duration ,  or frequent recurrence which can be due to crohn's disease ,  giardiasis ,  tuberculosis ,  coeliac disease ,  or rarely due to whipple's disease .
sinus bradycardia is a bradycardia where the sinus rhythm is abnormally slow bradycardia consisting of a sinus rhythm at a rate lower than 60 beats per minute .
junctional tachycardia is a tachycardia associated with the generation of impulses in a locus in the region of the atrioventricular node .
paroxysmal tachycardia is a tachycardia that begins and ends abruptly and that is initiated by a premature supraventricular beat originating in the atrium or in the atrioventricular node or bundle of his or by a premature ventricular beat .
sinus tachycardia is a tachychardia characterized by an abnormally rapid sinus rhythm specifically a sinus rhythm at a rate greater than 100 beats per minute .
a tachycardia that is associated with the generation of improper electrical impulses within the ventricles ,  characterized by an electrocardiogram showing a rate of greater than 120 bpm and three or more wide qrs complexes in a row .
sore eyes is a eye symptom characterized by an inflammation of the thin covering of the eyeball and the inner eyelid brought about by a viral infection which may be highly contagious .
neck pain is a pain characterized by an unpleasant sensation localized in the neck that usually indicates the body is threatened or damaged .
phantom pain is a pain where painful sensation that are perceived to originate in the amputated portion of the extremety .
nociceptive pain is a pain originated other than peripheral and central nervous system ,  caused by activation of nociceptive fibers .
neuropathic pain is a pain experienced by cancer patients caused by radiotherapy or chemotherapy damage to nerves ,  when cancer invades or compresses nerves ,  or when ,  during cancer treatment .
visceral pain is a pain originated from organ tissues of the thorax ,  abdomen ,  or pelvis ,  it characterizes as deep ,  vague ,  difficult to locate pain that radiates away from the affected organ .
hypoesthesia is a general symptom where there is a diminished sensitivity to stimulation .
hypoalgesia is a general symptom where there is a diminished sensitivity to painful stimulation .
hyperalgesia is a general symptom where there is an increased response to a painful stimulus .
chronic pain is a pain that can range from mild to severe ,  and continues beyond the expected healing phase .
breakthrough pain is a pain that occurs with movement and is not controlled by a scheduled pain medication regimen ,  such that the pain breaks through the current regimen .
acute pain is a pain that is severe but lasts a relatively short time .
allodynia is a pain where there is a painful sensation with a normal ,  non painful stimulation .
reactive hyperemia is a hyperemia occuring due to the dilation of arteriolar smooth muscle to increase blood flow in response to a profound increase in blood flow to an organ after being occluded .
active hyperemia is a hyperemia occuring due to the dilation of arteriolar smooth muscle to increase blood flow in response to an increase in metabolism .
functional hyperemia is a hyperemia occuring due to an increase in blood flow to a tissue due to the presence of metabolites and a change in general conditions .
hyperemia of the face is a head symptom consisting of an excess of blood in the tissues of the face as from an increased flow of blood due to vasodilation .
hyperemia of the neck is a neck symptom consisting of an excess of blood in the tissues of the neck as from an increased flow of blood due to vasodilation .
hyperemia of the chest is a cardiovascular system symptom consisting of an excess of blood in the tissues of the chest as from an increased flow of blood due to vasodilation .
spastic paralysis is a paralysis characterized by tonic spasm of the affected muscles and with increased tendon reflexes .
motor paralysis is a paralysis where there is a complete or partial loss of function the voluntary muscles .
stillbirth is a reproductive system symptom characterized by the birth of a dead fetus ,  occurs when a fetus which has died in the uterus or during labor or delivery exits a woman's body .
congested sclera is a hyperemia characterized as the congestion of the vessels of the outer layer of the eye containing collagen and elastic fibers .
gross hematuria is a hematuria characterized by the production of a visible redness in the urine .
anuria is a urinary system symptom characterized by the absence of or defective urine excretion .
stress incontinence is a urinary incontinence characterized by an involuntary leakage of urine from the bladder accompanying physical activity  ( as in laughing ,  coughing ,  sneezing ,  or physical exercise )  which places increased pressure on the abdomen .
hypermenorrhea is a menorrhagia characterized by an abnormally profuse or prolonged menstrual flow .
metrorrhagia is a menorrhagia characterized by an irregular uterine bleeding especially between menstrual periods .
subjective vertigo is a vertigo characterized by a sensation that one's body is revolving in space .
objective vertigo is a vertigo characterized by a sensation that the external world is revolving .
hypokinesia is a musculoskeletal system  symptom characterized by the slow or diminished movement of body musculature .
rigidity hypokinesia a type of hypokinesia described as the increase in muscle tension when moved by an outside force .
postural instability hypokinesia is a hypokinesia described as a loss of ability to maintain an upright posture .
freezing hypokinesia is a hypkinesia where a person can not move their muscles how they want them to .
referred pain is a pain where pain is subjectively localized in one region though due to irritation in another region .
facial tremor is a head symptom characterized by a trembling or shaking of the muscles of the face usually from physical weakness ,  emotional stress ,  or disease ,  may be emphasized by the firm closure of the eyes ,  elevation of the eyebrows ,  or drawing down and outward of the corners of the mouth .
cervical edema is a neck symptom characterized by an abnormal excess accumulation of serous fluid in the soft tissue of the cervical area .
a digestive system symptom characterized by bleeding from one or more of the areas of the digestive or gastrointestinal  ( gi )  tract that includes the espophagus ,  stomach ,  small intestine ,  large intestine or colon ,  rectum and anus .
breathing problems is a respiratory abnormality characterized by a shortness of breath ,  a hard or uncomfortable intake of air ,  or the feeling that you're not getting enough air .
nasal congestion is a congestion characterized by a blockage of the nasal passages usually due to membranes lining the nose becoming swollen from inflamed blood vessels .
icteric eyes is a eye symptom characterized by yellowed eyes due to bile or bilirubin accumulation .
icteric mucous membrane is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a yellowed mucous membranes due to bile or bilirubin accumulation .
yellowed skin due to bile or bilirubin accumulation .
otitis is a ear symptom characterized as a general term for inflammation or infection of the ear ,  in both humans and other animals .
hematoma is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized by a mass of usually clotted blood that forms in a tissue ,  organ ,  or body space as a result of a broken blood vessel generally the result of hemorrhage ,  or more specifically ,  internal bleeding .
lameness is a musculoskeletal system symptom where a person is physically disabled as the result of having a body part and especially a limb so disabled as to impair freedom of movement .
pericardial effusion is a cardiovascular system symptom where there is an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the pericardial cavity .
transient fever is a fever that is characterized as a rise of body temperature above the normal that is sustained for only a short period of time .
low - grade fever is a fever that does not exceed 38 .5 degree centrigrade .
prolonged fever is a fever that persists over a prolonged period of time .
mild fever is a fever that occurs in a mild form .
high fever is a fever that involved an elevated temperature .
very high fever is a fever that involves extremely high temperatures .
hyperpyrexia is a fever with an extreme elevation of body temperature greater than or equal to 41 .5 degree celsius  ( 106 .7 degree fahrenheit )  .
pel - epstein fever is a fever that is associated with hodgkin's lymphoma where the fever alternates weekly from high to low .
continuous fever is a fever where temperature remains above normal throughout the day and does not fluctuate more than 1 degree celsius in 24 hours .
remittent fever is a fever where the temperature remains above normal throughout the day and fluctuates more than 1degree celsius in 24 hours .
relapsing fever is a fever where the body temperature periodically rises and falls .
sensation perception is a nervous system symptom where the information perceived by sensory receptors are interpreted .
a low blood pressure characterized by or due to abnormally low blood pressure ,  especially in the arteries of the systemic circulation .
a skin andintegumentary tissue symptom that is characterized by cold ,  moist and sticky skin .
an acute allergic reaction to an antigen to which the body has become hypersensitive .
an abnormal protrusion or displacement of an eye or other body part .
a bradycardia associated with the generation of impules in the ventricles when impules from the atria fail to reach them ,  characterized by an electrocardiogram showing a heart rate below 50 bpm and a broad qrs complex .
an arrhythmia characterized by rapid ,  irregular ,  and unsynchronized contraction of muscle fibers within the heart .
a cardiac fibrillation associated with quivering of the lower chambers of the heart ,  preventing blood from being pumped and causing cardiac arrest .
an immune system symptom that is characterized by sensitivities to substances called allergens .
vomiting is a digestive system symptom characterized by throwing up the stomach contents .
a vomiting where there is vomiting of blood .
pulmonary edema is a respiratory system and chest symptom characterized by an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the lungs .
diaphoresis is a sweat characterized as excessive sweating commonly associated with shock and other medical emergency conditions .
dyspnea is a respiratory abnormality characterized by difficult or labored respiration .
eschar is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a scab formed especially after a burn .
boil is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a localized swelling and inflammation of the skin resulting from usually bacterial infection of a hair follicle and adjacent tissue ,  having a hard central core ,  and forming pus .
muscle pain is a pain characterized by pain in one or more muscles .
pustule is a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as a small circumscribed elevation of the skin containing pus and having an inflamed base .
pneumonia is a pneumonitis characterized as an inflammatory illness of the lung resulting from a variety of causes including infection with bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi ,  or parasites ,  and chemical or physical injury to the lungs .
arthritis is a musculoskeletal system symptom characterized as an inflammation of joints due to infectious ,  metabolic ,  or constitutional causes .
spondylitis is a nervous system symptom characterized by an inflammation of the vertebrae .
meningitis is a nervous system symptom characterized as an inflammation of the meninges and especially of the pia mater and the arachnoid .
a skin and integumentary tissue symptom characterized as the excretion of moisture in visible quantities through the opening of the sweat glands .
malaise is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized as an indefinite feeling of debility or lack of health often indicative of or accompanying the onset of an illness .
fatigue is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized by a weariness or exhaustion from labor ,  exertion ,  or stress .
lightheadedness is a neurological and physiological symptom characterized as the condition of being dizzy or on the verge of fainting ,  particularly when one arises to a standing position ,  is a predictable consequence of any medication tending to lower blood pressure .
constipation is a feces and droppings symptom involving the abnormally delayed or infrequent passage of dry hardened feces .
a nervous system symptom that involves ,  is related to ,  or emphasizes behavior .
a behavioral symptom that is characterized by increased movement ,  impulsive actions ,  and a shorter attention span ,  and being easily distracted .
a behavioral symptom that is characterized by a restricted rate of information processing by the brain .
a behavioral symptom that is characterized by speech ,  language and communication needs or communication disabilities .
a behavioral symptom that is characterized by obsessive and highly - focused interests .
a behavioral symptom characterized by unusual repetitive motor movements or manipulation of objects .
a cardiovascular system symptom that is characterized by an acute loss of blood from a damaged blood vessel .
a behavioral symptom characterized by unusual repetitive motor movements or manipulation of objects .
a hemorrhage that is characterized by any bleeding occurring within the skull .
a hemorrhage that is characterized by bleeding within the brain tissue itself .
a hemorrhage that is characterized by bleeding that occurs within the skull of head but outside the actual brain tissue .
