any depression located on cuticle .
part of digestive system continous to pyloric valves .
the anatomical space that encloses the maxilla and the mandible .
a depression located on anterior region of mandible
the orifice of excretory tube or nephridium .
excretory tubes located in the labium .
the groove located on medial line between head ventral side to collophore anterior side .
a invagination of pseudocelli .
the line that delimits the labial palp and labial triangle .
a medial concavity on labial margin and includes the labrum .
a medial concavity on labial margin .
the suture that delimits the pseudocelli .
in the first row on external - medial axis ,  the first ocellus adjacent to ocellus b
in the first row on external - medial axis ,  the first ocellus adjacent to ocellus a
in the second row on external - medial axis ,  the second ocellus immediately posterior to ocellus b
in the second row on external - medial axis ,  the first ocellus immediately posterior to ocellus a
in the third row on external - medial axis ,  the first ocellus posterior to or in lateral side of ocellus d
in the fourth row on external - medial axis ,  the first ocellus posterior to  ocellus d and ocellus e
in the fourth row on external - medial axis ,  the second ocellus immediately posterior to ocellus h
in the third row on external - medial axis ,  the second ocellus immediately posterior to ocellus c
a oblong or elliptical sensory organ situated just caudal to the base of the antenna .
organ at the junction of the midgut and hindgut .
the anatomical entities  ( apodeme ,  tendon ,  connective tissue ) located internaly in the head .
the connective plate located under the stomodeum
the sclerotized structure that connects the lingua and the antero - lateral portion of pseudotentorium .
part of internal apodeme .
the internal sclerotized plate located behind clypeus .
sclerites located between hypopharynx to medial wall of gnathal pouches .
the organ located under the cuticle and lie near the oesophagus .
the sensillum without wall pores .
the muscle that connects with the maxilla posteriorly .
the sensillum with terminal pore .
the sensillum with wall pores .
the modifed chaeta located in the apical side of antennal segment 4 .
the muscle that connects the basal side of pseudotentorium and cardo .
the muscle that originates in head dorsal area and inserts in the transverse mandibular tendon .
the muscle located from posterior tentorial apodemes to posterior endoskeletal plate .
the muscle that originates in head ventral area and inserts in the transverse mandibular tendon .
the nerve that innervates the antennal muscle .
the nerve that innervates the antenna .
the nerve that innervates the corpora cardiacum .
the nerve that innervates the hypopharinx .
the nerve thta innervates germ bands .
the nerve that innervates the labium .
the nerve that innervates the mandible .
the nerve that innervates the maxilla .
a nerve located in the suboesphageal ganglion and that innervates the mandible .
a nerve located in the prothoracic ganglion and that innervates connective tissue .
the nerve that innervates the eye patch .
the nerve that innervates the postantennal organ .
the nerve that innervates the tentorium - ocular muscle .
the nerve that innervates the ventral longitudinal muscle .
the subdivision of the head that includes the mouth .
the subdivision of digestive tube from pyloric region to anus .
a subdivision that delimits the midgut and proctodeum .
the sacs located in the hindgut on rectum .
the sacs located in the hindgut on posterior side of rectum .
a invagination of alveolus socket belongs to sensilla .
a septum that separates internally the ventriculus .
the vessel that irrigates the antenna .
the vessel located around to oesaphagic ganglion .
one of the minute rodlike structures in the retinulae in the compound eyes of arthropods .
the macromolecule compose by carbonate chloride .
the surface of the rough endoplasmic reticulum  ( often abbreviated rer or rough er ;  also called granular endoplasmic reticulum )  is studded with protein - manufacturing ribosomes giving it a  \ "rough \ " appearance  ( hence its name )  .
the area external to chaeta m2 .ab2 in the abdominal segment 2 .
the area internal to chaeta a5 .ab2 in the abdominal segment 2 .
the area located on medial area of abdominal segment 3 .
the area external and adjacent to area a2 in the abdominal segment 3 .
the area located between the chaeta a5 .ab3 and chaeta m2 .ab3 in the abdominal segment 3 .
the area most anterior located on medial area of abdominal segment 4 .
the area posterior to area a6 on medial area of abdominal segment 4 .
the area posterior to area a7 on medial area of abdominal segment 4 .
the area most posterior located on medial area of abdominal segment 4 .
the whorl of chaetae located in the distal distal of tibiotarsus .
the whorl of chaetae located in the subdistal distal of tibiotarsus .
the whorl of chaetae located in the medial side of tibiotarsus .
the whorl of chaetae located in the submedial side of tibiotarsus .
the connective tissue that connects the cardo - posterior tentorial membrane and outer thickening of stipes .
the area posterior to occipital area on dorsal side of head .
the area that contains the clypeus .
the located in the basal side of antenna .
the area delimited anteriorly with the labrum and posteriorly with the medial - transversal line of clypeus .
the area delimited anteriorly with the medial - transversal line of clypeus and posteriorly with the anterior margin of cephalic capsule .
the area that contains the clypeus and frons .
any area located in the furcula .
the area posterolateral to ocular area in the lateral side of head .
the star - shaped elements of the integument .
integumentary rod adjacent to some chaetae .
the area located between antennal sockets .
the area located between ocular area .
the sclerite delimits anteriorly with the labial palp and posteriorly with the subgena .
the sclerite located between subgena and basomedian labial field .
the sclerite located between basolateral labial field and cephalic groove .
the mediodorsal area of mesonotum .
the internal area located in the anterior region of mandible .
the area located behind the parietal area .
the area anterior to occipital area on dorsal side of head .
the plate that contains the female genitalia on ventral side of abdominal segment 5 .
the plate that contains the male genitalia on ventral side of abdominal segment 5 .
projections of gena that enclosed the mandible and maxilla .
the muscle that connects the oesophagous and frontal sclerite .
circular entity conforms by granules and ribs located on trochanter .
the area posterior to ocular area .
the basal area of labrum .
the first papilla lateral to main body axes and located in the first row of papillae of the labial palp
the second papilla lateral to papilla labial h and located in the second row of papillae of the labial palp
the second papilla lateral to papilla labila a located in the first row of papillae of the labial palp
the third papilla lateral to papilla labial b and located in the second row of papillae of the labial palp
the fourth papilla lateral to labial papilla labial d and located in the second row of papillae of the labial palp
the first papilla lateral to main body axes and located in the second row of papillae of the labial palp
a tubercle located in the distal side of manubrium .
conical structure anterior to nucleus in the spermatozoa .
long cylindrical structure result of the secretory activity of the epithelial cells .
the unguis part of medial legs .
the unguis part of hind legs .
the spur located on ventral side of neck .
the claw  in distal_side of tibitarsus dorsal to unguiculus
the unguis part of prolegs .
the claw  in distal side of tibitarsus ventral to unguis
the projection that is located in the distalmost part of mandible
the tubercle located on antenno - frontal area of cephalic capsule .
the tubercle located on clypeus .
the tubercle located in the in proximal side of dens
the tubercle located on dorsoexternal side of head .
the tubercle located on dorsointernal side of head .
the tubercle located on dorsolateral side of head .
the tubercle located on dorsointernal side of ocular area .
the tubercle located on dorsointernal side of subocular area .
granules and rids that compose the pseudocelli .
the area located on frontal side of head between the labrum and interantennal area .
the area located on frontal side that contains the clypeus and labrum .
one of the subdivisions of the abdomen .
the area located between dorsal area and basiantennal area of dorsal side of head .
the area located in the medial area on dorsal side of mesothorax .
the area located in the paramedial area on dorsal side of mesothorax .
the whorl of chaetae located in the external side of tibiotarsus .
the whorl of chaetae located in the internal side of tibiotarsus .
the whorl of chaetae located in the proximal side of tibiotarsus .
the area located in the ventral side of subgena and posterior to labium .
the area located behind of parietal area .
a layer of material that encloses space or that encloses a structure .
the chaeta lateral to chaeta a .l .0 on dorsal side of labrum
the chaeta located on dorsal side of labrum near to external margin
the chaeta lateral to chaeta a .l .1 on dorsal side of labrum
the third medial chaeta of labium .
the second medial chaeta of labium .
the first medial chaeta of labium .
the second lateral chaeta adjacent to chaeta l1 .lb of labium .
the first lateral chaeta adjacent to chaeta e .lb of labium .
the chaeta adjacent to cephalic groove on labium .
the chaeta adjacent to chaeta r .lb and chaeta l1 of labium .
the fifth chaeta of anterior row  ( a )  of labium .
the third chaeta of anterior row  ( a )  of labium .
the second chaeta of anterior row  ( a )  of labium .
the first chaeta of anterior row  ( a )  of labium .
the chaeta most anterior of anterior row ,  located on dorsal side of head
the chaeta most anterior of row a on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the first chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the first chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta a0 .h of anterior row ,  located on dorsal side of head
the first chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the first chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta a1 of row a on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the second chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the second chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the chaeta located bewteen the chaeta a0 .h and chaeta a1 .h of anterior row ,  located on dorsal side of head
the second chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the second chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the chaeta anterior to chaeta a2 .h of anterior row ,  located on dorsal side of head
the second posterior chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta a2 of row a on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the third chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the third chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the third chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the third chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta a1 .h of anterior row ,  located on dorsal side of head
the third chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the third chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the fourth chaeta of anterior row  ( a )  of labium .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta a3 of row a on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the fourth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the fourth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the chaeta anterior to chaeta a4a of row a on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta a4 of row a on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the fifth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the fifth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the fifth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the fifth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the chaeta lateral to chaeta a3 .h of anterior row ,  located on dorsal side of head
the chaeta most posterior of row a on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the sixth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the sixth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the sixth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the sixth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the sixth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the sixth chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the seventh chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the seventh chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the seventh chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the seventh chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
a chaeta located on preapical side of antennal segment 3 .
the chaeta most posterior of row ae on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the second chaeta of row ae on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the third chaeta of row ae on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the fourth chaeta of row ae on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the fifth chaeta of row ae on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the  first whorl located on apical side of antennal segment 4 .
the  second whorl located on apical side of antennal segment 4 .
the  third whorl located on apical side of antennal segment 4 .
the supplementary chaeta thta compose the external bothriotrical complex of abdominal segment 3 .
the most anterior chaeta of antennal row on medial - external axis of head capsule .
the second chaeta posterior to chaeta an1 of antennal row on medial - external axis of head capsule .
the second chaeta posterior to chaeta an1a of antennal row on medial - external axis of head capsule .
the second chaeta posterior to chaeta an2 of antennal row on medial - external axis of head capsule .
the most posterior chaeta of antennal row on medial - external axis of head capsule .
the chaeta anterior to chaeta an3 of antennal row on medial - external axis of head capsule .
the chaeta adjacent to chaeta ae located on apical side of antennal segment 4 .
the chaeta adjacent to chaeta ap located on apical side of antennal segment 4 .
the chaeta adjacent to chaeta api located on apical side of antennal segment 4 .
a sensillum adjacent to chaeta m3 .ab2 on abdominal segment 2 .
the first chaeta located on clasping organ of males .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta b1 of row b on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the third chaeta located on clasping organ of males .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta b3 of row b on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the fifth chaeta located on clasping organ of males .
the chaeta most posterior row b on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the seventh chaeta located on clasping organ of males .
the apical whorl of medial side of antennal segment 4 .
the basal whorl of medial side of antennal segment 4 .
the chaeta most anterior of row be on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta be1 of row be on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta be2 of row be on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the first whorl of medial whorl on medial side of antennal segment 4 .
the second whorl of medial whorl on medial side of antennal segment 4 .
the third whorl of medial whorl on medial side of antennal segment 4 .
the first chaeta of clasping organ on antennal segment 3 .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta c1 of row c on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the second chaeta of clasping organ on antennal segment 3 .
the third chaeta of clasping organ on antennal segment 3 .
the fourth chaeta of clasping organ on antennal segment 3 .
the fifth chaeta of clasping organ on antennal segment 3 .
the first guard appendage on papilla d of labial palp .
the second guard appendage on papilla d of labial palp .
the third guard appendage on papilla d of labial palp .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta d3 of row d on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the fourth guard appendage on papilla d of labial palp .
the fifth guard appendage on papilla d of labial palp .
the chaeta most anterior of row de on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta de1 of row de on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta most anterior of row e on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta e1 of row e on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta e2 of row e on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta e3 of row e on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta e4 of row e on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta e4p of row e on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the group of chaetae located in the centroposterior side of antennal segment 4 .
the chaeta most anterior of row ee on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta ee10 of row ee on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta ee11 of row ee on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta ee1 of row ee on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta ee2 of row ee on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta ee3 of row ee on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta ee4 of row ee on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta ee5 of row ee on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta ee6 of row ee on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta ee7 of row ee on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta most posterior of row ee on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the suplementary chaeta anterior to chaeta am6 .ab3 that compose the external bothriotrical complex on abdominal segment 3 .
the chaeta most anterior of row f on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta f1 of row f on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta f2 of row f on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta f3 of row f on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta f4 of row f on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta most posterior of row f on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta most anterior of row fe on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta fe1 of row fe on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta fe2 of row fe on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta fe3 of row fe on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta fe4 of row fe on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta fe5 of row fe on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
chaetotaxy is the arrangement of bristles  ( macrochaetae )  on an arthropod or annelid ,  or taxonomy based on their position and size .
the first chaeta located on lateral side of head .
the second chaeta located on lateral side of head .
the third chaeta located on lateral side of head .
the fourth chaeta located on lateral side of head .
the fifth chaeta located on lateral side of head .
the internamedial suplementary chaeta that compose the external bothriotrical complex on abdominal segment 3 .
the internal suplementary chaeta that compose the external bothriotrical complex on abdominal segment 2 .
the internal suplementary chaeta that compose the external bothriotrical complex on abdominal segment 3 .
the lateral suplementary chaeta that compose the external bothriotrical complex on abdominal segment 3 .
the lateromedial suplementary chaeta that compose the external bothriotrical complex on abdominal segment 2 .
the lateromedial  suplementary chaeta that compose the external bothriotrical complex on abdominal segment 3 .
the chaeta located in median position of median row ,  located on dorsal side of head
the first chaeta of median row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the first chaeta of median row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the chaeta internal to chaeta m1 .t2 of median row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the second chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the second chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the second chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the second chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the second chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the second chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the third chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the third chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the third chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the third chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the third chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the third chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the chaeta anterior to chaeta m3 .ab5 of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the chaeta external to chaeta m3 .ab2 of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the fourth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the fourth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the fourth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the fourth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the fifth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the fifth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the fifth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the fifth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the fifth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the fifth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the chaeta anterior to chaeta m5 .ab5 of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the chaeta external to chaeta m5 .ab5 of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the sixth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the sixth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the sixth chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the chaeta external to chaeta m5 .t2 of medial row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the seventh chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the seventh chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the seventh chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the seventh chaeta of medial row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the chaeta external to chaeta m7 .ab3 of medial row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the internal suplementary chaeta that compose the internal bothriotrical complex on abdominal segment 2 .
the internal suplementary chaeta that compose the internal bothriotrical complex on abdominal segment 3 .
the lateral suplementary chaeta that compose the internal bothriotrical complex on abdominal segment 3 .
the first chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the first chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the second chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the second chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the third chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the third chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the third chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the third chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of meetathorax .
the fourth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the fourth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the fourth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of mesathorax .
the fourth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the fifth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the fifth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the fifth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the fifth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the fifth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the fifth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the chaeta anterior to chaeta p5 .ab5 of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 5 .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta p5 .ab2 of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the sixth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the sixth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the sixth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abtominal segment 3 .
the sixth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abtominal segment 5 .
the sixth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the sixth chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the seventh chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the seventh chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the seventh chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of mesothorax .
the seventh chaeta of posterior row on medial - external axis of metathorax .
the second chaeta on medial - external axis of anterior postoccipital row .
the fourth chaeta on medial - external axis of anterior postoccipital row .
the fifth chaeta on medial - external axis of anterior postoccipital row .
the sixth chaeta on medial - external axis of anterior postoccipital row .
the external supplementary chaeta that compose the posterior bothriotrical complex of abdominal segment 4 .
the chaeta posterior to posterior postoccipital row .
the internal supplementary chaeta that compose the posterior bothriotrical complex of abdominal segment 4 .
the first chaeta on external - medial axis of medial postoccipital row .
the third chaeta on external - medial axis of medial postoccipital row .
the supplementary chaeta posterior to chaeta m6 .ab3 of abdominal segment 3 .
the first chaeta on medial - external axis of posterior postoccipital row .
the second chaeta on medial - external axis of posterior postoccipital row .
the third chaeta on medial - external axis of posterior postoccipital row .
the fourth chaeta on medial - external axis of posterior postoccipital row .
the fifth chaeta on medial - external axis of posterior postoccipital row .
the sixth chaeta on medial - external axis of posterior postoccipital row .
the second chaeta on medial - external axis of postsutural row .
the third chaeta on medial - external axis of postsutural row .
the fifth chaeta on medial - external axis of postsutural row .
the medial chaeta on medial - external axis of sutural row .
the first s - chaeta of antennal segment 3 .
the second s - chaeta of antennal segment 3 .
the third s - chaeta of antennal segment 3 .
the fourth s - chaeta of antennal segment 3 .
the fifth s - chaeta of antennal segment 3 .
the sixth chaeta on medial - external axis of sutural row .
the first sensorial rod of antennal segment 3 .
the second sensorial rod of antennal segment 3 .
the third sensorial rod of antennal segment 3 .
the fourth sensorial rod of antennal segment 3 .
the fifth sensorial rod of antennal segment 3 .
the first basal s - chaeta of antennal segment 4 .
the third basal s - chaeta of antennal segment 4 .
the fourth basal s - chaeta of antennal segment 4 .
the fifth basal s - chaeta of antennal segment 4 .
the sixth basal s - chaeta of antennal segment 4 .
the seventh basal s - chaeta of antennal segment 4 .
the first chaeta located in the subdorsal area of head capsule .
the second chaeta located in the subdorsal area of head capsule .
the third chaeta located in the subdorsal area of head capsule .
the fourth chaeta located in the subdorsal area of head capsule .
the fifth chaeta located in the subdorsal area of head capsule .
the chaeta most anterior of row t on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta t1 of row t on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta t2 of row t on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta t3 of row t on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta t4 of row t on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta t5 of row t on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta t6 of row t on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the chaeta posterior to chaeta t7 on fourth abdominal segment chaeta .
the second basal s - chaeta of antennal segment 4 .
the chaeta located in the subdistal area on external side of tibiotarsus .
the subdivision located on basal side of tenent hair .
the group of chaetae located on medial line of frontal side of head capsule .
the process located in the basal side of maxilla outer lobe .
the group of chaetae located in the centroapical side of antennal segment 4 .
the process adjacent to basal process of maxilla outer lob .
a sheet that covers the unguis on external side .
the muscle that connects with the lateral side of antennal segment 1 and pseudotentorium .
the spine - like chaetae located in the anal area .
the spine - like chaetae located in the preanal area .
the spine located in the basal side of anteapical tooh .
the group of spine - shaped chaetae located on dorsobasal side of dens .
the spine located in the basal side of basal spine .
the group of chaetae located on abdominal segments .
the group of chaetae located on ventral side of abdominal segment 6 .
the group of chaetae located on body in the adult stage .
the group of chaetae located on ventral side of abdominal segment 5 .
the group of chaetae located on anal area .
the group of chaetae located on anal valve .
the group of chaetae located on each segment that composed the antenna .
the group of chaetae located on abdominal segment 5 .
the group of chaetae that compose the anterior row on dorsal side of cephalic capsule .
the group of chaetae located on abdominal segment 1 .
the group of chaetae located on abdominal segment 4 .
the group of chaetae located on body in the inmature stage .
the group of chaetae located on body in the first instar .
the group of chaetae located on interocular area .
the group of chaetae located on labium .
the group of chaetae located on labrum .
the group of chaetae located on proximal side of labrum .
the group of chaetae located on legs .
the group of chaetae located on manubrium .
the group of chaetae located on mesothorax .
the group of chaetae located on metathorax .
the group of chaetae extra located on dorsal side of cephalic capsule or abdominal segment 4 .
the group of chaetae located on abdominal segment 2 .
the group of chaetae located on tibiotarsus .
the group of chaetae located on abdominal segment 3 .
the group of chaetae located on thorax .
a tubercles group located in the anal area .
the group of chaetae with spine - shaped located on anal area .
the group of modified located on anterior margin of antennal segment 3 .
the group of modified chaetae located on abdominal segment 6 .
the group of chaetae located on abdominal segment 2 ,  abdominal segment 3 ,  and abdominal segment 2 and composed of supplementary chaetae and a bothriotricha
the group of chaetae that together chaeta t2 is located in the anterior region of abdominal segment 4 .
the group of chaetae that together chaeta t4 is located in the anterior region of abdominal segment 4 .
the group of chaetae around of genital plate .
the group of chaetae located on anterior margin of mesothorax .
the group of chaetae located on collophore .
modified chaetae that compose the antennal segment 3 sense organ .
the group of chaetae located on dens .
the group of modified chaetae like scales located on dens .
the group of chaetae located in the centromedial side of antennal segment 4 .
the group of chaetae located on dorsal side of antenna .
the group of ocelli that compose the eye patch or eye .
the group of chaetae located on anterior region of head .
the group of chaetae located on frontoclypeal area .
the group of chaetae located on furcula .
the group of chaetae located on genital plate .
the group of chaetae that compose ,  together cup - like chaetae ,  the antennal segment 3 sense organ .
the group of chaetae located on basal side of labrum .
the group of chaetae located on lateral side of collophore .
the group of chaetae located on lateral side of abdominal segment 3 .
the group of chaetae located in the sternal region of abdominal segment 2 ,  abdominal segment 3 ,  and collophore .
the group of chaetae that compose the medial row on dorsal side of cephalic capsule .
the group of chaetae located on medial side and part of median row of cephalic capsule .
the group of chaetae located on mucro .
the group of modified chaetae located on abdominal segment 4 or basal side of furcula .
the group of chaetae located on ocellar area .
the group of chaetae located on dorsomedial side of mesothorax .
the group of chaetae located on postantennal area .
the group of chaetae located on postlabial area .
the group of chaetae that compose the postoccipital anterior row on dorsal side of cephalic capsule .
the group of chaetae that compose the postsutural row on dorsal side of cephalic capsule .
the group of chaetae located on prefrontal area .
the group of chaetae located on pregenital area .
the group of chaetae located on prelabral area .
the group of chaetae located on pretarsus .
the chaetae row lateral to cephalic groove .
the chaetae row located on anteroposterior axis and medial area of abdominal segment 4 .
the anterior chaetae row of abdominal segment 1 .
the anterior chaetae row of abdominal segment 2 .
the anterior chaetae row of abdominal segment 3 .
the external chaetae row lateral to row a of abdominal segment 4 .
the internal chaetae row lateral to row a of abdominal segment 4 .
the chaetae row lateral to row a of abdominal segment 4 .
the external chaetae row lateral to row b of abdominal segment 4 .
the chaetae row lateral to row b of abdominal segment 4 .
the chaetae row lateral to row c of abdominal segment 4 .
the external chaetae row lateral to row d of abdominal segment 4 .
the chaetae row located between row t and row f of abdominal segment 4 .
the external chaetae row lateral to row e of abdominal segment 4 .
the chaetae row located between row e and row fe of abdominal segment 4 .
the chaetae row located on tergal lateral side of abdominal segment 4 .
the medial chaetae row on lateromedial axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the medial chaetae row on lateromedial axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the medial chaetae row on lateromedial axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the posterior chaetae row on lateromedial axis of abdominal segment 1 .
the posterior chaetae row on lateromedial axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the posterior chaetae row on lateromedial axis of abdominal segment 3 .
the chaetae row located between row d and row e of abdominal segment 4 .
the group of chaetae located on clypeus .
the first transversal row of chaetae on anteroposterior axis located on clypeal area .
the second transversal row of chaetae on anteroposterior axis located on clypeal area .
the third transversal row of chaetae on anteroposterior axis located on clypeal area .
the fourth transversal row of chaetae on anteroposterior axis located on clypeal area .
the fifth transversal row of chaetae on anteroposterior axis located on clypeal area .
the sixth transversal row of chaetae on anteroposterior axis located on clypeal area .
the group of chaetae located on dorsal side of cephalic capsule .
the chaetae row located on the interocular area .
the chaetae row anterior to beta inter antennal row and located on interantennal area .
the chaetae row located on anterior margin on dorsal side of cephalic capsule .
the chaetae row posterior to interantennal area of cephalic capsule .
the chaetae row located on interantennal area of cephalic capsule and posterior to alfa inter antennal row .
the chaetae row posterior to b dorsal row and a dorsal row of cephalic capsule .
the row of chaetae most posterior in the dorsal area of head .
the group of chaetae located on frons .
the chaetae row located on interocular area .
the group of chaetae located on external side of subcoxa .
the transversal row of chaetae most anterior located in the trunk .
the anterior chaetae row of metathorax .
the medial chaetae row on lateromedial axis of mesothorax .
the medial chaetae row on lateromedial axis of metathorax .
the posterior chaetae row on lateromedial axis of mesothorax .
the posterior chaetae row on lateromedial axis of metathorax .
the longitudinal row of chaetae located on anterior side of tibiotarsus .
the longitudinal row of chaetae located on anterointernal side of tibiotarsus .
the longitudinal row of chaetae located on external side of tibiotarsus .
the longitudinal row of chaetae located on internal side of tibiotarsus .
the longitudinal row of chaetae located on anteroexternal side of tibiotarsus .
the longitudinal row of chaetae located on posteroexternal side of tibiotarsus .
the longitudinal row of chaetae located on posterointernal side of tibiotarsus .
the muscle that connects the dorsolateral side of basal ridge of mandible and frons .
the group of chaetae located on trunk .
the first row of chaeta on anteroposterior axis located on transversal line of trunk .
the second row of chaeta behind to alfa row on anteroposterior axis located on transversal line of trunk .
the fourth row of chaeta behind to gamma row on anteroposterior axis located on transversal line of trunk .
the tenth row of chaetae posterior to epsilon row and located in the trunk .
the fifth row of chaeta behind to epsilon row on anteroposterior axis located on transversal line of trunk .
the eleventh row of chaetae posterior to dzeta row and located in the trunk .
the third row of chaeta behind to beta row on anteroposterior axis located on transversal line of trunk .
the fourth row of chaetae posterior_to a .mt1_row and located_in the trunk
the second row of chaetae posterior_to a .mt1_row and located_in the trunk
the row of papillae that compose the labial palp .
a cylindrical midventral appendage on the first abdominal segment with paired eversible vesicles .
a pair of sacs located in the apical side of collophore .
a midventral appendage of the fourth abdominal segment .
the leg that is located on the metathorax .
the leg that is located on the mesothorax .
the system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products .
the proximal - most segment of the antenna .
the segment of the antenna located apically to the first segment .
the segment of the antenna located apically to the second segment .
the segment of the antenna located apically to the third segment .
the subsegment located on apical side of antennal segment 4 .
the subsegment located on basal side of antennal segment 4 .
the abdominal segment that is located between the metathorax and abdominal segment 2 .
the abdominal segment that is located between the abdominal segment 2 and abdominal segment 3 .
the abdominal segment that is located between the abdominal segment 2 and abdominal segment 4 .
the abdominal segment that is located between the abdominal segment 3 and abdominal segment 5 .
the abdominal segment that is located between the abdominal segment 4 and abdominal segment 6 .
the abdominal segment that is located apically to abdominal segment 5 .
the subdivision of trunk between neck and small abdomen .
the subdivision of trunk posterior to great abdomen .
the segments or subdivisions that compose the furcula .
the medial segment of furcula ,  with two separate parallel pieces which are connected basally with the manubrium and distally with the mucro .
the proximal subdivision of dens .
the medial subdivision of dens .
the distal subdivision of dens .
the proximal segment of the furcula ,  joined by its proximal end to the abdomen and at its distal end to the two dentes .
the distal segment of each dens .
the subdivision of furcula that contains the mucro and dens .
the basal leg segment ,  forming the articular sclerites .
the proximal part of coxa .
the segment apical to femur .
the segment apical to femur located on medial legs .
the segment apical to femur located on posterior legs .
the segment apical to femur located on anterior legs .
the subsegment located on medial side of antennal segment 4 .
each subdivision of retinaculum
the proximal segment of the retinaculum
the distal segment of the retinaculum .
the human or animal body apart from the head and appendages .
the whorl of chaetae located in the  tibiotarsus .
the appendage that is located inside of cephalic capsule and connecting via stipital stud to mandible and articulates with the cranium via apodeme of head capsule and cardo - posterior tentorial membrane
a ventral appendage of the third abdominal segment .
the posterior connective area of cuticular fulcro - tentorimum .
the second chaeta of anterior row on medial - external axis of abdominal segment 2 .
the muscle that connects the labium with the posterior tentorial apodeme .
the area located in the anterodorsal of manubrium .
the plate where the maxillary palp is located .
the trochanter located on medial legs .
the trochanter located on posterior legs .
the trochanter located on anterior legs .
the group of chaetae that compose the posterior row on dorsal side of cephalic head .
the third row of chaetae posterior to row p .mt1 and located in the trunk .
the specialized chaetae group located on any tagma of body .
the group of chaetae located on subadanal area .
the group of chaeta located on sublobal plate .
the muscle that connects the dorsomedial side of occiput and lateral margin of cardo .
the group of chaetae that compose the bothriotrical complex on abdominal segment 2 ,  3 ,  and 4 .
the group of chaetae located on external side of trochanter .
the group of chaetae located on external side of mesotrochanter .
the group of chaetae located on external side of metatrochanter .
the group of chaetae located on external side of protrochanter .
the group of chaetae located on ventrocentral side of antenna .
the group of chaetae located on ventroexternal side of antenna .
the group of chaetae located on ventroexternoanterior side of head .
the group of chaetae located on ventroexternocentral side of abdominal segment 4 .
the group of chaetae located on ventroexternointernal side of abdominal segment 4 .
the group of chaetae located on ventroexternolateral side of abdominal segment 3 .
the group of chaetae located on ventroexternomedial side of head .
the group of chaetae located on ventroexternoposterior side of head .
the group of chaetae located on ventrointernal side of antenna .
the group of chaetae located on ventrolateral side of antenna .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
a blind sac or tube - like structure that serve as one of caecal tibes or pouches .
an anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
the apodeme that is tubercle - like or spine - like .
the anatomical space that is surrounded by sclerites and allows for the passage of haemolymph ,  nerves and tracheae .
the anatomical structure that is a distinctly delimited group of segments .
the process that is small and knob - like or round .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the labrum ,  epipharyngeal wall ,  hypopharyngeal wall  ( including the sitophore )  ,  mandibles ,  maxillae ,  labium and conjunctivae connecting them .
a pair of palps located in the anterolateral side of labium close and ventral to buccal opening .
the tagma that is composed of the prothorax ,  mesothorax and metathorax .
the segment that is located posterior to the head and is does not bear legs .
the anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
the muscle that inserts on the antenna .
the rim that surrounds the antennal foramen .
the sclerite that is ring - like and is part of the antenna .
the antennomere that is an appendage segment .
the area that is located on the sclerite and that makes movable direct contact with another sclerite .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
the leg segment that is distal to the trochanter and proximal to the tibiotarsus .
the appendage that is composed of the coxa and all distal leg segments and is connected to thorax .
the appendage that is located inside of cephalic capsule and connecting via stipital stud to maxilla and articulates with the cranium via apodeme of head capsule and lateral part of clypeus
the suture that is located medially on dorsal side of head .
the area where the cuticle is invaginated .
the suture that is t - shaped and located dorsally on the cranium .
the leg that is located on the prothorax .
the genitalia that is part of the female organism .
the genitalia that is part of the male organism .
the anatomical system that is involved in copulation ,  fertilization and / or oviposition .
the suture that is located laterally on dorsal side of head .
the segment where is located the genitalia .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the cranium and compound eye cuticle .
the conjunctiva that connects two segments .
a embryional subdivision that correspond to labium formation .
the segment that is part of a leg .
the articular surface that is convex and is inserted into the fossa of an adjacent sclerite .
the condyle that is located ventrally  ( posteriorly )  on the proximolateral edge of the mandible and inserts into the pleurostomal fossa .
the process that is internal .
the area of muscle attachment .
the foramen that is delimited dorsally by the postocciput .
the foramen that is located anteriorly / ventrally on the cranium in which the mouthparts are positioned .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
the line that marks the fusion of two ancestral sclerites .
the anatomical cluster that includes the labrum ,  hypopharynx and labium .
an exocrine gland that secretes saliva .
a gland that discharges its secretion through a duct opening on an internal or external surface of the body ,  as a lacrimal gland .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and that release hormones in response to neural stimuli
either of a pair of endocrine glands located in the prothorax of certain insects and regulating molting .
one of a pair of separate or fused bodies in many insects that are sometimes closely associated with the corpora cardiaca and that secrete hormones  ( as juvenile hormone )  .
one of a pair of neurohemal organs located on the walls of the aorta just behind the brain .
an anatomical structure that is metameric and is connected to other metameric subdivisions by muscles and is delimited by its sclerites .
the anatomical structure that is delimited by the proximal and distal margins of the antennal sclerite .
any segment that is part of some embryo
any mandibular segment that is part of some embryonic head
any antennal segment that is part of some embryonic head
any maxillary segment  that is part of some embryonic head .
the head segments that develop posterior to the embryonic / larval mouth .
most posterior of the procephalic segments .
the tagma that is located posterior to the thorax .
the tagma that is located anterior to the thorax
the pleurite that extends ventrally of the lateral margin of the tergum and dorsally of the coxopleurite .
sclerotized rods located on posterior region of maxilla and contains the inner thickening of stipes and outer thickening of stipes .
the sclerite that is situated along the distal margin of the clypeus and is connected along its proximal margin with the distal margin of the epipharyngeal wall
the area that is lateral on the cranium between the frontal and occipital areas
the sclerite that is located on the pleuron .
the appendage that is composed of ringlike sclerites and the anatomical structures encircled by these sclerites and that is articulated with the cranium .
the apodeme that is elongate .
the anatomical structure that is encircled by the evagination of the integument and whose integumental components are attached to the body via muscles .
a 2 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's two dimensional extent .
a projection or outgrowth of tissue from a larger body .
the process that is elongate and external .
the area of the pronotum that is delimited posterodorsally by an edge and that accommodates the posterior surface of the head .
the area that corresponds to the site of origin of the clypeo - epipharyngeal muscle .
the area of the cuticle that is weakly sclerotized ,  with thin exocuticle .
the leg segment that is connected to the body and to the trochanter via conjunctivae and muscles .
the coxa that is located on the mid leg
the coxa that is located on the hind leg .
the coxa that is located on the fore leg
the acellular anatomical structure that is the external layer of the integument  ( covers the entire body surface as well as lines ectodermal invaginations such as the stomodeum ,  proctodeum and tracheae )  and produced by the epidermal cells .
outermost layer of the cuticle consisting of proteins and waxes which functions as an impermeability barrier .
the area that is delimited by the intersection of the margin of the compound eyes ,  the interorbital plane ,  and the anatomical line that is tangential to the point on the margin of the anterior ocellus which defines the minimum distance between the anterior ocellus and the oral foramen .
the lobe that is located distally on the epipharyngeal wall .
the procuticle that is not tanned  ( sclerotised ,  proteins scarcely crosslinked )  and located between the schmidt's layer and the exocuticle .
tiny submicroscopic or barely microscopic canaliculi normally visible only with the electron microscope .
the cuticle that does not contain chitin fibrils and is located externally of the exocuticle .
the procuticle that is tanned  ( sclerotised ,  proteins are highly crosslinked )  and located between the endocuticle and epicuticle .
the area that is delimited by the intersection of the interorbital plane ,  the margin of the eye patch .
the area that is located on the occiput ventrally of the occipital foramen .
in some insects ,  the ventral portion of the lateralia below the subgenal suture .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of epithelial cell ( s )  that secrete or excrete materials not related to their ordinary metabolic needs .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate , animals .
a small cluster of cells of various types which form a discrete structure ,  largely delimited by a morphological boundary and whose components work together to make the whole structure capable of a specific function .
a biological tissue mass ,  most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies .
nerve centre at the junction of the circumoesophageal connectives and the ventral nerve cord .
the line that is located on the sclerite and is impressed .
the anatomical system that forms the covering layer of the animal ,  ectodermal in origin and composed of epidermal cells producing the cuticle .
the area thta contains the labial triangle and labial palp .
the anatomical structure that is linear .
the evagination that is mostly membranous .
the line that delimits the periphery of an area .
the femur that is located on the mid leg
the femur that is located on the hind leg
the femur that is located on the fore leg
the terminal segment of the arthropod midleg distal to the tarsus .
the area that is limited anteriorly by the pronotum ,  laterally by the basalare ,  axillary sclerites ,  subalare and the mesopectus and posterolaterally by the mesopostnotum and the metanotum .
the notum that is located in the prothorax .
the eusternum that is located in the mesothorax .
the area that is located on the integument and is ventral of the ventral diaphragm .
the thoracic segment that is located between the prothorax and the metathorax and is delimited by the mesopectus and the mesonotum .
the thoracic segment that is located between the mesothorax and the first abdominal tergum and is delimited by the metanotum and the metapectus .
the thoracic segment that is located between the head and the mesothorax is composed of the pronotum ,  the propectus and the fore leg .
the body segment that is located in the thorax .
the portion of tissue that is composed of contractile fibers .
the part of the margin of a sclerite that is concave .
the area that is located dorsally on the thoracic segment and limited laterally by the pleuron .
the area that is concave and surrounds the postocciput .
the multi - tissue structure that is located on the top of the head ,  composed of the corneal lens ,  pigment cell ,  rhabdoms and synaptic plexus .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of the palpal segments .
the cuticle that containes chitin fibrils and is located between the schmidt's layer and the epicuticle .
the sclerite that is connected posteriorly to the propleuron and bears the prodiscrimen and the profurca .
the carina that extends along the margin or edge of a sclerite .
the anatomical cluster that is composed of repeated units of anatomical structures
the area of the cuticle that is strongly sclerotised ,  with thick exocuticle and is surrounded by conjunctivae .
a sense organ embedded in the integument and consisting of one or a cluster of sensory neurons and associated sensory structures ,  support cells and glial cells forming a single organized unit with a largely bona fide boundary .
the segment that is the part of the body .
the sclerite that is located on the tergum .
the area that is located on the integument and is dorsal of the ventral diaphragm .
the leg segment that is located proximal to the femur and distal to the coxa .
the area that is located on the sclerite and that is composed of repetitive anatomical structures .
middle subdivision of a digestive tract .
the terminal portion of the intestinal tube ,  terminating with the anus .
it is situated between the midgut and the ventral nerve cord .
the part of the stomodeum between the mouth and the oesophagus .
the anatomical space that is located proximal to the cibarium .
inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into an ectodermal terminal part of the digestive tract .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a hollow digestive organ ,  especially the stomach of certain insects or the gizzard of a bird .
organ at the junction of the foregut and midgut .
valve at the posterior end of the adult hindgut ,  anterior to the rectal sac .
any elongate process jutting from the outer surface of the cuticula .
cell which has as its part a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and which has apical - basal cell polarity .
a neuron projection that has a short ,  tapering ,  morphology .
a non - articulated cuticular projection ,  directly continuous with the cuticula .
a sensillum with a long ,  unicellular ,  setiform outgrowth that is strongly chitinized .
in arthropods ,  any opening of a meso -  or ectodermal gonoduct .
a long ,  slender ,  flexible spicule which gradually tapers to a point or is of equal diameter throughout .
a very large ,  sturby ,  immovable spicule ;  with a sharp or narrowly rounded tip .
a modified seta comprised of a slender basal stalk ,  pedicel ,  and an expanded and / or flattened distal part ,  squame ;  all scales have longitudinal ridges and arise from alveoli which are usually minute .
a very stout heavy spicule with a blunt apex .
the general surface covering of insects comprised of cuticular projections ,  i .e . ,  setae ,  scales and spicules .
the support cell that makes the thecogen dendritic cap  -  a cuticle - like matrix around the tip of the eo - dendrite and which encloses the soma of the eo - neuron .
an epidermal cell that is part of a cell cluster organ of the insect integument  ( such as a sensillum )  and that secretes a cuticular specialization that forms a socket around the base of a cuticular specialization produced by a trichogen cell .
an epidermal cell that is part of a cell cluster organ of the insect integument  ( such as a sensillum )  and that secretes a cuticular specialization ,  often in the form of a hair ,  bristle ,  peg or scale .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the gonad of a female organism which contains germ cells .
a gonad of a male animal .
epithelial layer that lines the intestine .
a muscle that moves a body part away from the sagittal plane / midline of the body .
a muscle capable of adduction .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
cardinal organ part which is a fiat subdivision of an organ component .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
named areas of the body .
the anatomical system that is involved in circulation .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce endocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
a tube that is part of a excretory system .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
this begins with the newly hatched first - instar larva ,  through its maturation to the end of the last larval stage .
anatomical entity that has mass .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
an epithelium that is part of a midgut .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
for insects ,  the process would begin at zygote formation and end with larval hatching .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions
any component associated with the anatomic structures in the head responsible for special sensations rather than general sensations ,  including the eyes ,  ears ,  nose ,  and tongue .
any component associated with the organ for sight or vision .
a group of small ,  interconnected ganglia situated posterior to and between the two brain hemispheres and associated with the pharynx ,  esophagus and aorta .
a preoral neuromere or middle portion of insect brain wich represents fused ganglia of hypothetical antennal segment of head .
a segmental subdivision of the nervous system .
the anterior part of the arthropod brain .
commissure of the adult tritocerebrum ,  formed by the terminals of the fibers ascending through the cervical connective that extend to either half of the tritocerebrum .
posterior division of insect brains ,  formed by ganglia of third segment of head .
the pair of closely united ventral longitudinal nerves with their segmental ganglia that is characteristic of many elongate invertebrates
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
a multicellular organism that existence_ends_with a post - juvenile adult stage and existence_starts_with a post - juvenile adult stage .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
a pigment cell is a cell that contains pigment granules .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism ) 
orifice at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
a muscular dilatation of the foregut in most mandibulate insects that is armed internally with chitinous teeth or plates for triturating food .
an exceretory tubule that usually opens to the exterior by a nephridiopore .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes indirect development and includes elements that develop as a replacement or substitution of other elements or tissues .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a rigid covering that envelops an object .
any one of the fibrous tracts of the peripheral nervous system ,  whether a single fiber or a group of fibers ;  a nerve trunk .
surface structure that is a small ,  fleshy protuberance
a subdivision of the gut along its long axis .
a sac that is an outpouching of a hollow  ( or a fluid - filled )  structure in the body .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones .
the anatomical structure which is part of the hemolymph vascular system and consists of a vascular wall and a vascular lumen .
the vessel which runs longitudinally in the dorsal midline of the body and may consist of anterior aorta ,  heart and posterior aorta .
the anatomical structure which is part of a pulsatile organ ,  and connects the lumen of the pulsatile organ with the surrounding hemocoel .
anatomical structure which has as its parts one or more ordered aggregates of nucleotide ,  amino acid fatty acid or sugar molecules bonded to one another .
a class of hydrocarbons with an empirical formula of cm ( h20 ) n  ( where m and n may be equal )  and includes monomers ,  polymers and derivatives of aldoses ,  ketoses ,  saccharides ,  and alditols .
a biomacromolecule consisting of large numbers of monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
long - chain polymer of n - acetylglucosamine ,  is a derivative of glucose .
a polydisperse ,  highly branched glucan composed of chains of d - glucopyranose residues in alpha ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic linkage ,  joined together by alpha ( 1 -  > 6 )  glycosidic linkages .
the components of the cell .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
formation of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface and of some cytoplasmic parts .
thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments .
the specialized microvilli - containing organelle on the apical surfaces of a photoreceptor cell containing the visual pigment rhodopsin and most of the proteins involved in phototransduction .
cell part which consists of macromolecules aggregated into discrete structures in the protoplasm .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome .
any constituent part of a chromosome ,  a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
any structure as cytoskeleton located in the cellular cytoplasm .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
a contractile actin filament bundle that consists of short actin filaments with alternating polarity ,  cross - linked by alpha - actinin and possibly other actin bundling proteins ,  and with myosin present in a periodic distribution along the fiber .
a stack of flattened vesicles located between the nucleus and the secretory pole or surface of a cell .
cell that separates the cornea from the underlying rhabdomeres .
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell or cells .
a carbohydrate rich layer at the outermost periphery of a cell .
an organelle semi autonomous with double - membrane - bound  found in most eukaryotic organisms .
a type of neuron ,  or nerve cell ,  whose function is to translate neural signals into chemical stimuli .
cell that contains pigments and it is found in or between ommatidia .
an intracellular organelle ,  about 200 a in diameter ,  consisting of rna and protein .
the smooth endoplasmic reticulum  ( smooth er or ser )  has no ribosomes attached to it .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane .
the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia  ( also called flagella )  in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
a cilium which may have a variable arrangement of axonemal microtubules and also contains molecular motors .
the region of the cephalic area bearing the eyes .
a system of neurosecretory neurons that release hormones to the circulatory system .
retinal pigment cell that is part of an ommatidium .
a delicate ,  cylindrical sheath of chitin continuously secreted from the posterior edge of the foregut of insects and millipedes that ingest solid food ,  which surrounds the food as it passes through the midgut .
a material entity that is part of an object but is not demarcated by any physical \ ndiscontinuities .
a material entity that is a mereological sum of separate object entities and \ npossesses non - connected boundaries .
a material entity that is a mereological sum of separate object entities and possesses non - connected boundaries .
