phenotypic observation of the presence or absence of a pathological entity .
no pathological entity observable .
pathological structure or process
the sum of morphological and functional disturbances induced by cell and tissue damage ,  either from intrinsic gene dysfunction or as a result of external factors .
extensive necrosis from whatever cause ,  often following chronic ischemia .
defect in placental growth ,  differentiation of circulation ;  maternal or embryonic component .
lack of ,  displacement of ,  or abnormality in function or growth of the glycogen cells .
defect in size ,  cellular composition ,  function or organisation of the labyrinthine zone of the placenta .
any defect in the maternal or embryonic placental circulation .
defect in size ,  cellular composition ,  function or organisation of the spongiotrophoblast zone of the placenta .
lesions leading to or consequent on failure of ,  or atypical movement of ,  blood throughout the body .
abnormal accumulation of fluid ;  blood or lymph .
presence of an abnormal amount of fluid  ( but especially of blood )  in the vessels or passages of a part or organ .
a syndrome consequent to uncontrolled activation of blood clotting factors leading to disseminated platelet lysis ,  and fibrin deposition ,  ultimately leading to bleeding and necrosis as a consequence of inhibition of fibrin polymerisation by degradation products .
an accumulation of an excessive amount of watery fluid in cells or intercellular tissues .
necrosis associated with local hemorrhage .
a plug formed from a variety of materials occluding a vessel or tube .
an bubble of air occluding flow through a blood or lymphatic vessel .
occlusion of vessels caused by entry of amniotic fluid ,  cell and debris into the maternal circulation .
occlusion of the outflow tract of the right atrium by a thrombus .
occlusion of vessels caused by entry of bone marrow ,  often fatty debris into the circulation .
occlusion of vessels caused by entry of lipid or fatty cells into the circulation .
occlusion of pulmonary vessels by an embolus .
occlusion of vessels ,  usually small arterioles in the dermis by various emboli .
production of systemic vessel occlusion by emboli released from the left side of the heart ,  or the aorta .
abnormal release of whole blood or the cellular component from the circulation .
soft or fluid tissue remains of a circumscribed area of necrosis digested by proteolytic enzymes .
a red / purple patch caused by extravasation of blood into the skin .
a localised deposition of clotted or partially clotted extravasated blood .
small hemorrhagic spots in the skin caused by blood vessel breakdown .
purple and variously colored lesions caused by extensive haemorrhage into the skin through ecchymoses / petechia .
an area of necrosis resulting from a sudden cessation of arterial or venous blood supply .
presence of an occluding or mural thrombus in a blood vessel .
defects in growth  ( changes in proliferation or mass )  and differentiation of cells tissues or organs .
a reduction in size of organs or tissues as a result of cell death ,  loss of cellularity of whatever cause ,  reduced cellular proliferation or decreased cellular volume .
non - invasive changes characterized by alteration in the size ,  shape and organization of the cellular components of an epithelial tissue .
epithelial dysplasia
sensu ;  hepaticobiliary system .loss and degeneration of hepatocytes at the portal - lobular interface producing a moth - eaten irregular appearance .
mild non - invasive changes in cell morphology and tissue architecture confined to the epithelium alone .
moderate non - invasive changes in cell morphology and tissue architecture confined to the epithelium alone .
severe non - invasive malignancy associated changes in cell morphology and tissue architecture confined to the epithelium alone .
small organ or structure ;  failure to develop to normal size .
an increase in cell numbers in comparison to normal as a consequence of increased cell proliferation .
abnormal proliferation of epithelial and stromal cells .
a polypoid outgrowth of both epidermis and dermal fibrovascular tissue .
benign proliferation of glandular epithelium accompanied by proliferation of fibroblastic stroma .
abnormal proliferation of epithelial cells and epithelial components .
benign proliferation of goblet cells .
a pathological process of loss or degradation of function ,  or structural integrity ,  of a tissue ,  organ or cell .
a benign polyp ,  usually in the colon ,  showing hyperplasia .
a projecting mass of granulation tissue which may become covered by regenerating epithelium .
benign hyperplasia of the ducts of the mammary gland .
benign proliferation of glandular epithelia ,  eg .
benign proliferation of glandular myoepithelial cells .
benign proliferation of adipose tissue .
benign enlargement of lymphoid tissues .
benign proliferation of mesothelial cells lining body cavities presenting as small solid cell clusters or multiple layers with columnar morphology and delicate eosinophilic cytoplasm .
benign proliferation of epidermal cells with hyperkeratosis .
change of tissue to a lower state of integrity or less functional form ,  as in heart failure .
hyperplasia of the malpighian layer  ( prickle cell )  of the epidermis .
discrete ,  flat or elevated ,  verrucous ,  keratotic lesions .
benign proliferation of the basal layer cells of the skin .
increased thickness of the granular layer of a stratified squamous epithelium ,  associated with hyperorthokeratosis .
thickening of the surface layers  ( stratum corneum )  in the skin or other stratified squamous epithelium .
thickening of the anuclear cell layer limited to the stratum corneum ,  as in a stratified squamous epithelium .
thickening of the surface cell layer of a stratified squamous epithelium with retention of nuclei in the cells of the stratum corneum .
benign hyperplasia and down - growth of epidermal cells .
superficial ,  benign ,  verrucous ,  often pigmented ,  greasy lesions consisting of proliferating epidermal cells ,  resembling basal cells ,  enclosing cornifying cysts .
increase in size or mass of a cell ,  tissue or organ without increase in cell proliferation .
a conversion of the connective tissues into a gelatinous or mucous substance .
abnormal transformation of an fully differentiated adult cell or tissue of one kind into a differentiated tissue of another kind .
metaplasia resulting in heterotopic formation of cartilage .
metaplasia occurring within epithelia .
alteration of acinar epithelium of ,  for example ,  mammary tissue to resemble apocrine glands .
appearance of heterotopic gastric epithelium .
development of heterotopic glandular epithelia .
metaplasia resulting in formation of mucus secreting goblet cells .
appearance of heterotopic intestinal epithelium .
metaplasia resulting in formation of fat cells .
 .a rare benign neoplasm of the mucosa of the urinary bladder or the urethra ,  consisting of tubular structures resembling those of the nephron .
defect of a subcellular structure or organelle .
appearance of oncocytic cells in for example an epithelium or tumor .
change of a glandular or mucosal epithelium into squamous epithelium .
metaplastic response of the transitional epithelium ,  for example in the bladder to give squamous metaplasia and glandular metaplasia for example .
a progressive disease of the bone marrow where neoplastic bone marrow stem cells lodge and grow at sites outside the bone marrow .
metaplasia resulting in formation of bone .
the process ,  normal or abnormal ,  of damage repair or wound closure .
replacement of connective tissue by fibro - fatty deposits and scar tissue .
aberrant process of blood vessel formation and the subsequent remodeling process ;  does not refer to the initial establishment of the vascular network by vasculogenesis .
abnormal deposition of extracellular matrix proteins or other components .
deposition of fibrin .
defect in the structure or function of the cytoskeleton .
abnormal or reactive proliferation of fibroblasts .
reactive formation of fibrous tissue .
proliferation of astrocytes in an area of damage in the brain or spinal cord .
newly formed connective  ( vascular or fibrous ) tissue caused by inflammation or healing  ( repair )  processes .
any pathological thickening or hardening of a tissue .
post - injury regeneration of the functional tissue parenchyma .
complete healing through parenchymal regeneration  -  no fibrosis .
incomplete healing usually accompanied by fibrosis .
inappropriate or aberrant activation or suppression of the immune or inflammatory response .
immune response resulting in tissue injury .
defect in the structure or function of the endoplasmic reticulum .
this is manifested by localized or generalized reaction that occurs immediately  ( minutes )  after exposure to an antigen to which the person / animal was previously sensitized .
caused by an antibody / antigen reaction: antibodies are directly or indirectly cytotoxic to antigens on cell surfaces or in connective tissues .
tissue injury mediated by immune complexes .
an antigen - elicited cellular immune reaction that results in tissue damage ,  but does not require ab participation .
tissue response to inappropriate immune / inflammatory process .
inflammation of a joint .
inflammation of the skin .
renal disease characterised by diffuse inflammatory changes in glomeruli not in response to an infectious agent or treatment .
an anemic / erythrocytopenic condition resulting from an increased rate of immune mediated erythrocyte destruction .
a condition resulting from an increased rate of immune mediated platelet destruction .
complete and irreversible cessation of metabolic activity .
defect in the structure or function of the golgi apparatus .
inflammation of a muscle .
inflammation of a blood vessel .
defective immune response ;  can be primary due to defect in immune system or secondary / acquired due to disease .
general immunodeficiency disease
chronic / recurrent inflammatory disease
infection with bacteria ,  viruses or fungi subsequent to immunodeficiency .
disease due to primary molecular or cellular defect in the immune system or its development .
primary defect in the lymphoid arm of the immune system .
primary defect in the myeloid arm of the immune system .
defect in the immune system subsequent to external injury ,  infection ,  ablation or deficiency .
defect in the structure or function of the lysosomes .
defect in the immune system subsequent to external injury ,  infection or ablation .
defect in the immune system subsequent to failure to attain passive immunity from maternal transfer of immunoglobulins .
a tissue reaction to an internal or external injury .
inflammation with a recent onset ,  characterised histologically by primarily granulocyte infiltration ,  edema and hyperemia .
chronic inflammatory condition characterised by infiltration of primarily lymphocytes .
nodular inflammatory reaction ,  containing compactly grouped epithelioid cells ,  giant cells ,  and other macrophages .
acute inflammatory reaction in which the predominant histological change is rapid diffuse necrosis throughout the affected tissue .
combination of inflammation ,  often suppurative or granulomatous ,  with ulceration .
a tumor resulting from abnormal and uncontrolled autonomous new cell growth  ( proliferation ) that may be benign or malignant .
tumors of the skin ,  its constituent structures and glands including the mammary gland ,  apocrine and eccrine glands ,  hair follicles and associated structures .
defect in the structure or function of the mitochondria .
carcinoma of the glandular epithelium of apocrine glands  ( m - 8401 / 3 )  .
benign neoplasm of the epithelium of apocrine glands  ( m - 8401 / 0 )  .
malignant carcinoma of the ceruminous gland  ( m - 8420 / 3 )  .
benign adenomatous neoplasia of the ceruminous glands of the external auditory meatus  ( m - 8420 / 0 )  .
tumor derived from eccrine sweat glands composed of clear glycogen rich cells .
malignant neoplasm of the eccrine gland  ( m - 8413 / 3 )  .
benign neoplasm of the eccrine gland  ( m - 8408 / 0 )  .
papillary form of eccrine sweat gland adenoma .
benign apocrine sweat gland tumor  ( 8405 / 0 )  .
malignant neoplasm of the sebaceous cells  -  rare areas of differentiation ,  severe nuclear atypia  ( m - 8410 / 3 )  .
defect in the structure or function of the peroxysomes .
adenoma of sebaceous cells ;  regular architecture of gland not mantained .
a benign ,  often multiple ,  sometimes eruptive neoplasm of the sweat gland ducts composed of very small round cysts .
multiple small benign nodules derived from basal cells of hair follicles enclosing small cornified cell containing cysts .
well circumscribed tumor of the basal cells of the epidermis .
malignant neoplasm of the basal cells of the epidermis with local invasion .
tumor of venous or arterial vessels or capillaries .
 .a benign neoplasm of fibrous tissue in which there are multiple large and small dilated vascular channels  (  m9160 / 0 )  .
an intradermal capillary telangiectasis with hyperkeratosis and acanthosis  ( m - 9141 / 0 )  .
a benign neoplasm frequently arising in the cerebellum composed of capillary vessel forming endothelial cells and stromal cells .
hemangioendothelioma
defect in the structure or function of the plasma membrane .
neoplasm derived from endothelial cells .
a vascular ,  usually benign ,  neoplasm composed of round and spindle cells derived from the pericytes and surround endothelium - lined vessels .
malignant neoplasm derived from pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells or endothelial cells of blood vessels .
neoplasm of the neurones ,  glia or meninges of the cns .
glioma derived from astrocytes ,  both benign and malignant forms  ( m - 9400 / 3 )  .
malignant neoplasm derived from the epithelial cells of the choroid plexus .
benign neoplasm derived from the epithelial cells of the choroid plexus .
neoplasm derived from the ependymal cells lining the ventricles and aqueduct of the brain and the central canal of the spinal cord .
ependymoma malignant
neoplasm derived from astrocytes and oligodendrocytes .
degenerative process characteristic of a particular tissue .
neoplasm derived from the primitive neurectodermal cells of the cerebellum .
meningioma
benign or malignant neoplasm derived form oligodendrocytes  ( m - 9450 / 3 )  .
neoplasm derived from sub - ependymal astrocytes  ( m - 9383 / 1 )  .
tumors showing multiple histological componants / differentiation .
mixed tumor of glandular epithelia with squamous and glandular diffferentiation .
possible origin from smooth muscle cells or pluripotential embryonic mesenchymal cells .
a benign or malignant neoplasm ,  which may be cystic ,  developing from the epithelium of rathke`s pouch and occuring with or close to the pituitary gland .
neoplasm showing multiple phases ,  derived from mesoderm  ( m - 8951 / 3 )  .
most commonly a salivary gland carcinoma of low grade malignancy composed of mucous ,  epidermoid ,  and intermediate cells .
absence of hair or loss of hair .
neoplasm usually of the uterus or adnexae containing carcinomatous and sarcomatous elements ,  sometimes with third or fourth components .
embryonal tumor thought to be derived from metanephric blastema .
a biphasic tumor containing a primitive epithelial component ,  that may resemble well - differentiated fetal adenocarcinoma and a primitive mesenchymal stroma ,  which occasionally has foci of osteosarcoma ,  chondrosarcoma or rhadomyosarcoma .
sarcomatous tumors ,  presenting a wide histological ,  ultrastructural ,  and immunocytochemical spectrum .
tumors with epithelial invaginations / linings and a fibrillary and fibrocytic stroma .
a benign neoplasm composed of glandular and fibrous tissues ,  predominantly glandular .
a benign neoplasm derived from glandular epithelium ,  in which there is a abundant stroma of proliferating fibroblasts and connective tissue .
neoplasms derived from glandular epithelial cells .
malignant neoplasm of epithelial cells in glandular or glandlike pattern .
a noninvasive abnormal proliferation of glands believed to precede the appearance of invasive adenocarcinoma .
changes characterized by erosion of articular cartilage ,  either primary or secondary to trauma or other conditions .
a benign epithelial neoplasm in which the tumor cells may form glands or glandlike structures .
spontaneous intestinal adenoma formation .polyps increase in number ,  causing symptoms of chronic colitis and potentially transform into adenocarcinoma .
benign epithelial neoplasm of the lung .
malignant epithelial neoplasm of the lung .
an adenocarcinoma characterised by the presence of varying combinations of clear and hobnail - shaped tumor cells .
form of carcinoma of the breast or other organ in which plugs of necrotic malignant cells are present in the ducts .
malignant neoplasm derived from glandular epithelium ,  in which cystic accumulations of retained secretions are formed .
a benign neoplasm derived from glandular epithelium ,  in which cystic accumulations of retained secretions are formed .
originates in the follicular cells of thyroid follicles .
adenoma derived from the follicular cells of the thyroid follicles .
characterised by irregular lipid deposits in the wall of arteries ,  causing narrowing of their lumens and proceeding eventually to fibrosis and calcification .
adenoma derived from acinar epithelium of the harderian gland .
malignant tumor derived form acinar epithelium of the harderian gland .
derived from the mammary ductal epithelium and penetrating the stroma  ( m - 8500 / 3 )  .
in situ carcinoma of the mammary ductal epithelium .
infiltrating tumor with papillary morphology derived from the breast epithelium  ( m - 8503 / 3 )  .
benign papilloma arising from ductal epithelium  ( m -  8503 / 0  )  .
diffuse multiple adenomatous papillomas derived from the ductal epithelium of the breast .
usually pancreatic b cell derived tumors mostly producing insulin .
rare tumor of the islets of langerhans ,  most of which produce insulin .
a form of breast adenocarcinoma derived from lobular cells .
opacity of the lens .
non - infiltrating form of lobular adenocarcinoma derived from the ductal epithelium .
derived from calcitonin - producing cells  ( thyroid )  .
malignant neoplasm derived from a glandular epithelium ,  eg .
a benign neoplasm derived from glandular epithelium ,  in which cystic accumulations of mucinous retained secretions are formed .
tumor originating in myoepithelial cells of exocrine glandular structures ;  for example mammary gland ,  salivary gland and preputial / clitoral glands .
a malignant neoplasm derived from a glandular epithelium ,  in which solid tumors show papillary structures projecting onto fibrovascular stroma .
a benign neoplasm derived from a glandular epithelium ,  in which solid tumors show papillary structures projecting onto fibrovascular stroma .
a malignant neoplasm derived from glandular epithelium ,  in which cysts contain folds or papillary projections into the lumen .
a benign neoplasm derived from glandular epithelium ,  in which cysts contain folds or papillary projections into the lumen .
originating from differentiated cells of the pineal parenchyma .
energy dependent cell death induced by intrinsic genetic or developmental programme ,  or external stimuli such as addition or withdrawal of cytokines or trophic factors ,  radiation ,  chemotherapeutic agents etc .
loss of muscle fibers and elastin in the media of the aorta ,  with accumulation of mucopolysaccharide .
malignant neoplasms which arise from pineoblasts ,  the primitive pineal stem cells .
a tumor arising in the pineal gland that resembles normal pineal parenchyma .
benign tumor derived from the pituicytes  (  glial cells of neurohypophysis )   ( m - 8272 / 0 )  .
tumor characterized by extensive spread of a mucin - secreting neoplasm along the peritoneal surfaces  ( m - 8480 / 6 )  .
adenocarcinoma from a serous gland producing and containing serous proteinaceous secretions  ( m - 8441 / 3 )  .
ovarian cystadenoma composed of cells similar to tubal epithelium  ( m - 8441 / 0 )  .
adenocarcinoma of signet ring type arising from exocrine cells of the gastric mucosa or enterocytes of intestinal mucosa .
benign neoplasm derived from the calcitonin producing c - cells of the thyroid gland .
malignant neoplasm derived from the calcitonin producing c - cells of the thyroid gland .
germ cell and non - germ cell tumors of the testis and ovary .
abnormal accumulation of air in the interstitial connective tissue of a structure .
neoplasms derived from germ cells .
cystic ovarian teratomas with different mature cell types  ( m - 9084 / 3 )  .
undifferentiated germ cell tumor of the ovary composed of solid sheets of large polygonal cells with rim of clear cytoplasm  ( m - 9060 / 3 )  .
germ cell derived malignant neoplasm of the testis or ovary ,  composed of anaplastic cells with indistinct cellular borders and large ovoid ,  round ,  or bean - shaped nuclei that may have large nucleoli .
germ cell derived tumors resembling parietal or visceral yolk sac endoderm derivatives .
gonadal neoplasms that consist of aggregates of germ cells and sex cord elements  ( m - 9073 / 1 )  .
malignant neoplasm of the testis / ovary including various elements of germ cell tumors  ( m - 9085 / 3 )  .
tumor derived from spermatogenic cells resembling spermatogenia or spermatocytes .
as mpath:317 ,  but not spermatocytic  ( m - 9061 / 3 )  .
neoplasm of the testis usually found within the tubule .
increase in the intraocular pressure .
rare ovarian tumor ,  regarded as monodermal teratoma ,  in which thyroid tissue has surpassed the other elements ;  occasionally associated with hyperthyroidism  ( m - 9090 / 0 )  .
mixed germ cell neoplasm contaning elements of embryonal carcinoma and teratoma  ( m - 9081 / 3 )  .
generally benign germ cell derived tumors of male or female containing derivatives from all three germ layers with differentiation in the malignant form being poor .
neoplasms derived from the non - germ cell derived tissues of the testis and ovary .
obsolete use sertoli cell tumor mpath: 331 .
obsolete use thecoma mpath:334 .
 .derived from sex cord stromal cells .
gynandroblastoma
tumor derived from leydig cells  ( m - 8650 / 1 )  .
tumor derived from sex cords composed of highly luteinised cells with extensive pale granular cytoplasm .
accumulation of substances within ,  on the surface of or between cells .
tumor consists of a mixture of granulosa ,  luteal thecal ,  sertoli and stromal cells .
tumor derived from sex cord / stromal cells ;  sertoli cells and can occur in both testis and ovary .
tumor of the ovary or testis containing granulosa or theca cell elements with a tubular componant of sertoli cell type and producing simultaneous androgenic and estrogenic effects .
sex cord tumor
derived from sex cord stromal cells ,  spindle shaped cells arranged in whorls or interlacing bundles .
proliferative disorders and malignancies of the lymphoid and non lymphoid haematopoietic lineages .
leukaemia
leukaemia with at least 50% of nucleated erythroid cells infiltrating haematopoietic tissue .
granulocytic leukaemia
lymphatic leukaemia
extracellular deposition of amyloid protein .
leukaemia with at least 50% of megakaryocytic cells infiltrating haematopoietic tissue .
haematopoietic proliferation with evidence of trilineage dysplasia .
leukaemias of the myeloid lineage .
lymphoma
follicle center cell lymphoma
immunoblastic lymphoma
small lymphocytic lymphoma
thymic lymphoma
mast cell tumor
intra -  or extracellular deposition of bile pigments and their metabolites .
mastocytoma
a neoplasm in the anterior mediastinum ,  originating from thymic tissue ,  usually benign ,  and frequently encapsulated ;  occasionally invasive ,  but metastases are rare ;  histologically ,  consists of any type of thymic epithelial cell as well as lymphocytes that are usually abundant .
tumors of the liver and biliary apparatus .
benign neoplasm derived from hepatocytes .
malignant tumor derived from the bile duct epithelium .
develops from cholangiofibrosis ,  fibrosis of the biliary ducts and is only potentially malignant .
malignant neoplasm of the liver of unknown origin  .
malignant tumor derived from hepatocytes .
tumors derived from melanocytes .
tumor of neurectodermal origin ,  usually melanocytes ,  showing dense deposition of melanin granules ,  although amelanotic melanomas have been reported .
intra or extracellular deposition of calcium usually as calcium phosphate .
a potentially malignant lesion ,  melanoma in situ is the first phase of growth of melanoma ,  in which it is still confined to the epithelial domain  ( epidermis and adnexa )  and has not passed through the basement membrane .
local lesion of the skin ,  often colored by hyperpigmentation or increased vascularity .
benign or malignant neoplasm of the ovary and corpus uteri ,  thought to originate in mesonephric structures .
tumor beleived to be derived from mesonephric remnants .
mesothelial tumor
benign or malignant neoplasm derived from the lining cells of the pleura and peritoneum ,  composed of spindle cells or fibrous tissue which may enclose glandlike spaces lined by cuboidal cells .
neoplasms derived from the neuroendocrine system .
carcinoid tumors are of neuroendocrine origin and derived from primitive stem cells .
obsolete .
endocrine adenoma
intracellular deposition of golden or yellow - brown pigment ,  acid fast and insoluble in lipid solvents .
primitive neuroectodermal tumors  ( pnet )  are neoplasms derived from primitive neural stem cells either in the cns or the periphery  .
neuroendocrine cell derived anaplastic carcinoma composed of small cells ,  usually of the lung producing a variety of peptide hormones .
small disseminated foci of atypical bronchiolar epithelial hyperplasia .
neoplasms derived from neuroepithelial precursors .
a neoplasm of immature ,  poorly differentiated neuronal cells believed to arise from neuroepithelial precursors in the olfactory epithelium .
a benign neoplasm composed of mature ganglionic neurons scattered singly or in clumps within a relatively abundant and dense stroma of neurofibrils and collagenous fibers .
a malignant neoplasm characterized by immature ,  poorly differentiated nerve cells of embryonic type .
a catecholamine - secreting tumor arising from the chromaffin cells of the sympathetic nervous system or adrenal medulla .
malignant juvenile neoplasm of the eye derived from primitive retinal precursor cells .
odontogenic tumor
intra and extracellular deposition of copper and copper containing proteins .
a tumor consisting of proliferating strands and clumps of odontogenic epithelium in a highly cellular fibroblastic stroma resembling the dental papilla of developing teeth .
benign odontogenic epithelial neoplasm that histologically mimics the embryonic enamel organ but does not differentiate to the point of forming dental hard tissue .
benign neoplasm derived from pluripotential mesenchymal cells or cementoblasts .
a neoplasm arising from the periodontal ligament  ( m - 9273 / 0 )  .
reactive fibro - osseous lesion derived from odotongenic cells in the periodontal ligament  ( m - 9272 / 0 )  .
similar lesion to ameloblastic fibroma  ( mpath380 )   ,  but also showing inductive changes that lead to the formation of dentine  ( m - 9271 / 0 )  .
hamartomatous malformation of odontogenic tissue .
neoplasms of bone and cartilage .
a benign or malignant neoplasm occuring in the epiphyses of long bones ,  consisting of highly cellular tissue resembling embryonic cartilage .
intracellular deposition of glycogen .
chondroblastoma ,  malignant
a benign neoplasm derived from mesodermal cells that form cartilage composed of well differentiated hyaline cartilage  ( m - 9220 / 0 )  .
malignant neoplasm derived form pluripotential mesenchymal cells ,  chondrocytes or chondroblasts .
generally benign osteogenic neoplasm of unknown aetiology .
benign bone tumor characterized by hyaline cartilage capped bony growths that project from the surface of the affected bone .
benign neoplasm derived from pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells or osteoblasts composed of mature nbone trabelculae seperated by a stroma of spindle cells .
benign neoplasm derived from osteoblasts or osteocytes composed of very dense bone with predominantly woven structure .
malignant neoplasm derived form mesenchymal stem cells ,  osteoblasts or osteocytes .
generally benign neoplasms of chief cells arising from neuroectodermal tissues ,  found in various parts of the body .
paraganglioma arising in the chief cells of the aortic body  ( m - 8691 / 1 )  .
morpholological changes after intravital  ( pathologic )  death of one or more cells ,  or of a portion of tissue or organ ,  resulting from irreversible damage ; characterised by mitochondrial swelling ,  nuclear pyknosis ,  karyolysis ,  swollen and abnormally pale basophilic staining ;  or karyorrhexis ,  rupture and fragmentation of the nucleus .
intracellular deposition of eosinophilic material .
paraganglioma arising in the chief cells of the carotid body  ( m - 8692 / 1 )  .
a glomus tumor arising from the chief cells of the paraganglia  (  neurectodermal derivatives )   ,  or glomus bodies ,  located within the wall  ( adventitia )  of the jugular bulb .
glomus tumor
a neoplasm composed of derivatives of chief cells usually in single encapsulated nodular masses surrounded with sustentacular cells .
neoplasms of the soft and connective tissues .
believed to arise from primitive notochord remnants  .
highly recurrent ,  infiltrative skin tumors of intermediate malignancy derived from fibroblasts / fibrocytes .
benign neoplasm of fibroblasts / fibrocytes with poor / moderate cellularity .
malignant tumor derived from pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells ;  fibroblasts ,  fibrocytes  ( m - 8810 / 3 )  .
benign or maligant tumor derived from pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells showing fibrous and histiocytic differentiation  ( m - 8830 / 0 )  .
extra -  or intra - cellular deposition of iron ,  iron containing proteins or hemosiderin .
malignant or benign tumor of pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells giving rise to large multinucleated cells  ( m -  9251 / 1 )  .
granular cell tumor / alveolar sarcoma
malignant tumor of unknown origin though probably myogenic due to expression of myod and other myogenic lineage markers .
granular cell tumor
solid tumor mass composed predominantly of histiocytic cells  ( m - 9775 / 3 )  .
tumors derived from the lipogenic lineage or showing predominantly lipomatous differentiation .
benign renal neoplasm composed of fat ,  vascular ,  and smooth muscle elements .
benign neoplasia derived from lipoblasts or lipocytes of white or brown fat .
malignant neoplasms which probably originate in primitive mesenchymal stem cell populations differentiating down a lipomatous pathway .
neoplasms of the lymphatic vessels .
extra or intracellular deposition of lipid .
benign hamartomatous malformation of the lymphatic ducts .
characterized by benign peribronchial ,  perivascular ,  and perilymphatic proliferation of atypical smooth muscle resulting in vascular and airway obstruction ,  cyst formation ,  and a progressive decline in lung function .
a malignant neoplasm derived from vascular tissue in which the neoplastic cells originate from the endothelial cells of lymphatic vessels .
neoplasms derived from myogenic lineages or predominantly composed of cells showing myomatous differentiation .
benign leiomyoma that invades vascular spaces .
benign neoplasm derived from smooth muscle cells .
malignant tumor derived form pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells or smooth muscle cells .
myoblastoma
malignant tumor of striated muscle or pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells .
neoplasms resembling primitive mesenchymal tissue with a soft mucous matrix .
intracellular deposition of brown pigment granules probably representing lipid - containing residues of lysosomal digestion .
angiomyxoma is a poorly circumscribed ,  slowly growing lesion composed of spindle - shaped and stellate cells evenly distributed in an abundant myxoid matrix .
a benign neoplasm derived from pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells of connective tissue ,  consisting chiefly of polyhedral and stellate cells that are loosely embedded in a soft mucoid matrix .
a malignant neoplasm derived from pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells of connective tissue ,  consisting chiefly of polyhedral and stellate cells that are loosely embedded in a soft mucoid matrix .
neoplasms of the nerve sheath .
neurilemmoma
peripheral nerve tumor consisting of chaotic arrays of wavy schwann cell bundles and fibroblasts interspersed within a matrix rich in collagen and mucopolysaccharide .
systemic manifestation of mpath:435  (  m - 9540 / 1 )  .
malignant neoplasm derived from schwann cells .
may be malignant or benign ,  schwann cell derived tumor considered to be neurectodermal with some acquired mesenchymal features .
neoplasms of synovial origin .
intra or extracellular deposition of melanin .
malignant neoplasm occurring in close association with tendon sheaths and joint capsules .
synovioma
neoplasms of stratified squamous epithelial cells .
a benign tumor consisting of villous or arborescent outgrowths of fibrovascular stroma covered by neoplastic epithelial cells in which proliferating epithelium is invaginated beneath the surface and is more smoothly rounded .
skin type is thought to arise from follicular epithelium of hair follicles ;  found in other epithelia .
a benign tumor consisting of villous or arborescent outgrowths of fibrovascular stroma covered by neoplastic epithelial cells  ( m - 8050 / 0 )  .
malignant tumor derived from stratified squamous cells .
pre - neoplastic intraepithelial lesion of squamous cells  ( m - 8070 / 2 )  .
a benign tumor consisting of villous or arborescent outgrowths of fibrovascular stroma covered by neoplastic squamous epithelial cells .
a well - differentiated papillary squamous cell carcinoma .
non - specified intra or extracellular deposition of protein .
neoplasms of transitional epithelia ,  eg kidney ,  ureter  ,  bladder  ,  cervix .
malignant neoplasm of transitional cells  ( m - 8120 / 3 )  .
pre - malignant intra - epithelial neoplasm of transitional cells  ( m - 8120 / 2 )  .
pre - malignant lesion of transitional cells ,  papillomatous form  (  m -  8120 / 1 )  .
tumors derived directly from trophoblastic tissue or differentiated from germ cell tumor origins .
tumor derived from malignant trophoblastic cells .
vesicular or cystic tumor with hydropic villi resulting from the proliferation of trophoblast in the absence  (  complete )  or the presence  (  partial )  of an embryo .
neoplastic proliferation of intermediate trophoblasts that invades the myometrium at the placental site after a pregnancy .
obsolete
extracellular deposition of uric acid crystals .
defect in the structure or function of the nuclear membrane or matrix or other component .
proliferation of lens epithelium and capsule leading to fibrous metaplasia and anterior subcapsular cataract  (  asc )   .
nuclear cataract of developmental origin with tendency to progress with age and involve the cortex and capsule .
of developmental origins ;  nucleus and cortex become completely liquefied in post - natal life .
involves capsular rupture usually of the posterior lens capsule ,  close to birth or in the first few weeks postpartum .
consequent on developmental abnormalities in the trabecular network and schlemm`s canal in the angle .
failure of drainage of the eye for unknown reasons .
develops when the angle caused by the iris and cornea closes .
formation of extracellular  ( sensu pancreas )  non - epithelial bounded spaces containing accumulated products or substances .
any aberration of the normal symmetrical organisation of the body pattern .
loss or dispersion of specific intra -  and extracellular substances .
left / right  ( mediolateral )  axis aberration of the normal symmetrical organisation of the body pattern .
anteroposterior aberration of the normal symmetrical organisation of the body pattern .
dorsoventral aberration of the normal symmetrical organisation of the body pattern .
developmental dysplasia showing epithelial cell bounded cavities .
dilation of a tubular structure .
dilation of a ductal structure .
a lesion formed by a dilated capillary or terminal artery .
similar to hamartoma ,  including the mass lesion requirement ,  but unlike hamartoma ,  includes heterotopic tissue of an adult or embryonic nature  (  topographical and developmental anomaly )  .
abnormality in developmental angiogenesis .
defect in formation of blood vessels by vasculogenesis ,  proliferation or recruitment of endothelial cells .
process of loss of calcium from normally calcified tissue ,  usually bone .
any defect in the formation ,  architecture ,  cellular composition or function of the maternal decidua .
lesions likely to result in progression to frank tumors ,  which may be classified as pre - neoplastic or pre - cancerous .
localised hyperplastic lesion .polyclonal lesions are probably benign but clonal lesions may progress to malignancy .
presence of localised areas within for example adenomas showing characteristics of neoplastic  ( tumor )  progression ,  eg focal carcinoma .
expansion of small hyperplastic lesions to become macroscopically nodules ,  compressing adjacent cells .
may be used in some systems in preference to its synonyms to indicate lesion specific aprearances .
pre - malignant hyperplastic and / or dysplastic change in the mammary gland epithelium with the potential to give rise to malignant tumors .
histologically apparent areas of dysplasia that are not grossly visible  ( smaller than 0 .5 - 1 mm )  .
see reference for definition .
stomach ,  oesophagus and pancreatic intra - epithelial neoplasia
reduction of myelin content in neuronal sheath .
benign neoplastic growth containing areas of adenomatous structure  ( progression )  .
a mass of tissue which projects outward or upward from the normal surface level being macroscopically visible as a hemispheroidal ,  spheroidal ,  or irregular moundlike structure growing from a relatively broad base or a slender stalk .
glomerulonephritis characterized by diffuse thickening of glomerular capillary basement membranes ,  due in part to subepithelial deposits of immunoglobulins separated by spikes of basement membrane material ,  .
a chronic glomerulonephritis characterized by mesangial cell proliferation ,  increased lobular separation of glomeruli ,  thickening of glomerular capillary walls and increased mesangial matrix ,  .
glomerulonephritis caused by autoimmune attack on the glomerulus .
tumor derived from the capillary glomus with arteriovenous capillary anastomoses .
neoplasms of non - lymphoid haematopoietic lineage .
leukaemia in which neoplastic cells are poorly differentiated and not monocytic .
leukaemia in which neoplastic cells are moderately differentiated with a neutrophilic but not monocytic component .
abnormal proliferation of beta cells of developing islets often leading to marked diffuse or focal beta - cell hyperplasia .
area of liver necrosis that bridges adjacent portal areas and central veins .
reduction in intracellular glycogen content .
leukaemia in which neoplastic cells are well differentiated and in which there are fewer than 20% blasts .
leukaemia in which neoplastic cells are moderately differentiated with a neutrophilic and a monocytic component .
leukaemia in which neoplastic cells are poorly or moderately differentiated with a monocytic but no neutrophilic component .
a leukaemia with at least 90% blasts and differentiation markers of the myeloid and lymphoid lineage .
solid tumor mass composed of non - lymphoid haematopoietic cells .
solid tumor mass composed predominantly of granulocytic or relatively undifferentiated non - lymphoid haematopoietic cells .
solid tumor mass composed of mast cells .
haematopoietic proliferation with evidence of trilineage dysplasia .
haematopoietic proliferation with evidence of trilineage dysplasia .
intrinsic abnormally low level of calcification in a tissue cf .
non - reactive persistent accumulation of non - lymphoid haematopoietic cells .
non - reactive persistent accumulation of non - lymphoid haematopoietic cells in the blood which do not infiltrate the spleen and the bone marrow .
non - reactive persistent accumulation of non - lymphoid haematopoietic cells in the blood which infiltrate the spleen and the bone marrow .
neoplasms of the b or t cell lineage .
b cell neoplasms
hematological neoplasias of non - lymphoid origin .
neoplasm of the b cell lymphoid lineage .
lymphoma originating from precursor b - cells .
lymphoma originating in a precursor b - cell .
lymphomas originating in peripheral b cells .
reduction in cellular or plasma lipid content .
diffuse accumulation of small mature b - cells .
a lymphoid proliferation of cells of the marginal zone of the white pulp of the spleen .
a lymphoid proliferation composed of a mixture of centroblasts and centrocytes that may or may not have a nodular ( follicular ) pattern .
diffuse proliferation of large b lymphoid cells .
diffuse follicular centre cell lymphoma mainly composed of centroblasts .
diffuse large b cell lymphoma with increased number of immunoblasts .
diffuse large b - cell lymphoma with more than 50% histiocytes .
primary b - cell lymphoma of the thymus .
highly proliferative b - cell lymphoma characteristically seen in c - myc transgenic mice ,  derived from mature b cells .
highly proliferative mature b - cell lymphoma ,  poorly defined .
reduced bone mass due to inadequate synthesis of osteoid ,  resulting in decreased calcification .
diffuse proliferation of mature plasma cells .
unusual lymphoma type described in thymectomised  ( sl / kh x akr / ms )  f1 mice .
diffuse proliferation of mature plasma cells .
diffuse proliferation of mature plasma cells .
diffuse proliferation of immature plasma cells or plasma blasts .
neoplasms derived from cells of the t lymphocyte lineage .
neoplasms of precursor t cells .
precursor t cell derived neoplasia .
non - thymic neoplasms of mature t cell origin .
accumulation of small mature t cells .
reduction in the quantity of bone or atrophy of skeletal tissue .
t cell neoplasms which cannot currently be classified into known subtypes .
diffuse large pleiomorphic t cell lymphoma .
neoplasm of large granular t cells of cd8 phenotype .
benign neoplasm of the biliary duct .
benign tumor of unknown origin showing features of hepatocelluar adenoma and cholangioma .
malignant tumor of unknown origin showing features of hepatocelluar carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma .
extracellular accumulation of mucous secretions .
a generally malignant neoplasm consisting of villous or arborescent outgrowths of fibrovascular stroma covered by atypical neoplastic epithelial or urothelial cells cells .
any of various types of malignant neoplasm derived from epithelial cells ,  chiefly glandular  ( adenocarcinoma )  or squamous  ( squamous cell carcinoma )  .
developmental and structural abnormalities occurring during embryonic development or during adult life .
a connective tissue neoplasm ,  usually highly malignant ,  formed by proliferation of mesodermal cells .
benign tumor of the clara cells of the bronchioalveolar epithelium .
inflammation of a nerve .
regressive changes which may increase in severity ,  and which may result from defective nutrition or support of a tissue or organ .
deposition of any homogeneous inorganic material .
lesions which in some cases have the potential to become progressively growing malignant tumors .
sensu gastrointsestinal tract .visible microscopically in whole mount colonic tissue .
adenocarcinoma type tumor with both glandular and squamous differentiation .
tumor composed of small glandular clusters with small lumens .
structural ,  physical or other general defect of prenatal development of the embryo and the placenta ,  or such as are acquired in the adult .
tumor composed of sheets or nests of cells forming lumens with round ,  punched out spaces .
mixed adeno -  and squamous cell carcinoma .
the twisting of a bodily organ or part on its own axis .
carcinoma derived from gastrointestinal epithelium with a high mucinous content .
develop primarily through increasing anaplasia of well differentiated gliomas ,  mainly astrocytomas or oligodendrogliomas .
tumors of neuronal and non - neuronal cells derived from embryonic neurepithelium .
tumors of the meninges
glial cell derived tumor composed of bipolar cells with long `hairlike` gfap - positive processes .
mixed tumor containing astrocytes within an oligodendroglioma or vice versa .
failure of a tissue or organ to develop .
tumors of the peripheral nervous system .
tumor composed of the epithelial components of the most proximal  ( trichogenic )  portion of the hair follicle associated with an aberrent hair cortex type of cornification  ( ghost cells or shadow cells )  .
ossifying fibromas are benign tumors derived from pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells or osteoblasts .
pre - malignant lesion of transitional cells ,  papillomatous form ,  in which proliferating epithelium is invaginated beneath the surface .
nephroblastomatosis
this is a new diagnostic term that the mmhc pathology panel felt best described a diagnostically challenging set of tumors that share the feature of being compose of basaloid cells showing follicular differentiation to some extent .
basaloid neoplasm with numerous mature hair follicles and hair formation .
cellular neoplasm with well formed palisades of basaloid cells adjacent to less basophilic smaller cells with occasional central deposition of amorphous eosinophilic material .
basaloid neoplasm with frequent primitive hair follicles .
loss of epithelium and the basement membrane  ( full thickness )  .
absence of an organ or tissue coupled with persistence of the organ / tissue primordium ,  which fails to develop completely .
partial epithelial denudation not penetrating to the basement membrane .
connective tissue proliferative reaction induced by a neoplastic process .
scarring of the hair follicle without affecting the adjacent dermis .
loss of hair follicles in a diffuse dermal scar .
in mice the term refers to accumulation of fibrous connective tissue in the medullary cavity of bones ;  usually in old mice .
a mixed inflammatory infiltrate in the pulmonary airways with predominant intra - alveolar macrophage component with intra -  and extracellular ,  elongated ,  bright eosinophilic / acidophilic crystals .
a group of degenerative disorders resulting in multiple cysts in tissues .
the lesion is characterized microscopically by epithelial cells with atypical hyperchromatic nuclei ,  vacuolization ,  intratubular lumina formation ,  infrequent apoptosis ,  and rare mitotic figures .
distortion or deficiency of the tissue or cellular architecture .
defect in the process determining number ,  angle ,  pattern or rate of branching of tubular branched structures eg .
lesion of bone showing accelerated osteoclastic bone resorption coupled with fibroplasia .
accumulation of mature adipose tissue in a healing wound site or otherwise in response to tissue damage .
excessive formation of dense trabecular bone and mineralized cartilage ,  especially in long bones ,  leading to obliteration of marrow spaces and to anemia with myeloid metaplasia and hepatosplenomegaly beginning in infancy ,  to bone fragility ,  and to progressive deafness and blindness .
plasma cell myeloma  -   ( icd - o 9732 / 3 )  .
formation of multiple retention cysts from obstruction of ducts or glands by hyperplasia of the lining epithelium .
the formation of and development of blood cells outside the red pulp of the spleen .
the organic response of tissues to external insult ,  injury or underlying genetic or epigenetic lesion .
processes occurring during cell and tissue damage of either intrinsic or extrinsic etiology .
degenerative entity
developmental process abnormalities
necrosis characteristic of some inflammatory conditions which represents necrosis with loss of structure of the various cellular and tissue elements ;  affected tissue manifests a friable ,  crumbly consistency .
failure of two cavities ,  voids or lumens to connect .
aberrant branch or branching pattern of a branched structure such as the bronchus .
increase of the size or cellularity of an organ or tissue as a consequence of loss of normal regulation of cell proliferation .
an organ or a tissue with an abnormal increase in the number of cells as a consequence of cell proliferation .
anatomically located instance of pathological response or entity .
abnormal increase or decrease in the rate of cell growth or cell division including associated changes in the differentiation state of adult cells .
a tissue or group of cells in which there has been abnormal transformation of an fully differentiated adult cell or tissue of one kind into a differentiated tissue of another kind .
the pathological process that results in the formation and growth of a neoplasm .
physical entity or structure associated with normal or abnormal tissue healing or repair following extrinsic or intrinsic damage .
a circumscribed collection of purulent exudate frequently associated with swelling and other signs of inflammation .
pus in a body cavity ;  when used without qualification ,  refers specifically to pyothorax .
inappropriate curvature of a structure .
dilatation of a blood vessel or valve .
acute or chronic inflammation of the tongue .
coloration ,  either normal or pathologic ,  of the skin or tissues resulting from a deposit of pigment .
solid material formed by aggregation of discrete units or particles .
a disease of the heart muscle or myocardium proper .
hypertrophy of bone characterised by an abnormal increase in non - neoplastic skeletal bone mass .
focal lesions of hepatocytes characterised primarily by altered cytoplasmic tinctorial properties .
hyperplasia of myeloid lineage ,  usually in the spleen .
septal defect lying between the aorta and pulmonary trunks caused by failure of the spiral septum to separate the truncus arteriosus .
formation of an epithelium bounded cavity not associated with neoplasia .
incomplete closure of the inter - atrial septum due to failure of the primary or secondary septum .
failure of the inter - ventricular septum to completely close between the left and right ventricles .
abnormal retention of lipids within a cell .
an adhesion ,  usually between the iris and the cornea or the lens capsule .
turning in of the edges of a structure .
tearing away or separation of two structures or parts .
to sink down ,  said of an organ or other part .
an inflammatory process in which there is infiltration of polymorphonuclear cells into a more chronic area of inflammation characterized by mononuclear cells ,  macrophages ,  lymphocytes and possibly plasma cells .
a small rounded mass of inflamed ,  highly vascular granulation tissue on the skin ,  frequently having an ulcerated surface .
deep cutaneous hemangioma with large dilated vascular spaces that manifests spontaneous involution .
the removal of accumulated fluids or solids .
abnormally increased nuclear size .
tissue or cells undergoing hypertrophy ,  mpath: 159 .
increase in size of hepatocytes characterised by organelle hyperplasia and enlarged cellular volume .
presence of concretions in the gallbladder or bile ducts .
focal suppurative inflammation of the skin and subcutaneous tissues ,  enclosing a central slough or `core` .
swelling of the kidneys when urine flow is obstructed in any of part of the urinary tract .
inflammation of fatty tissue .
a retention cyst ,  resulting from an obstruction to the duct of a gland ,  within a bursa .
an acute ,  diffuse ,  spreading ,  edematous ,  suppurative inflammation of the deep subcutaneous tissues and sometimes muscle ,  which may be associated with abscess formation .
accumulation of water in the ventricles of the brain .
abnormal development  ( of organs or tissues )  or an abnormal structure resulting from such growth .
deposition of organic bone matrix .
intradermal or subcutaneous cyst ,  the wall of which is stratified epithelium containing keratohyalin granules ,  surrounding a core of debris .
intra or extracellular deposition of cholesterol .
non - cellular fluid that filters from the circulatory system and accumulates in lesions or areas of inflammation .
accumulation of chitinase - like protein .
underdevelopment of an organ due to a decrease in the number of cells through failure to proliferate leading to lack of development .
benign proliferation of histiocytes .
rupture or disruption of erythrocytes with release of contents .
increase in the diameter of an orifice or tubular structure beyond its normal dimensions .
abnormal location ,  orientation ,  number ,  loss or non - specified deformity of a structure or tissue .
a mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate ,  primarily macrophages and some syncitial cells ,  around the heart attached to the epicardium .
a blind ended outpouching through the wall of a tubular organ or bounded cavity .
ectopia
a type of necrosis in which the affected cells or tissue are reduced to homogeneous eosinophilic mass without nuclear staining ,  as a result of the protein coagulation ,  eg .
an abnormal passage between two internal organs or leading from a cavity to the body surface .
distension of the renal pelvis by accumulated fluid or urine .
malignant tumor of striated muscle or pluripotential mesenchymal stem cells composed mainly of small round cells ,  with some partial skeletal muscle differentiation .
failure of two or more structures  (  not voids or lumens )  to join together .
malignant mesenchymal tumor that morphologically and phenotypically resembles embryonal skeletal muscle .
generally benign germ cell derived tumors of male or female containing derivatives from all three germ layers with differentiation in the malignant form being poor .
increase in the rate of growth of an organism ,  organ or tissue as a consequence of increased proliferation ,  reduced cell death ,  or a combination .
generally benign germ cell derived tumors of male or female containing derivatives from all three germ layers with differentiation in the malignant form being poor .
benign stromal tumors of the soft tissue with skeletal muscle differentiation .
systemic manifestation of mpath: 407 .
dermal ,  subcutaneous ,   or tendinous lesions characterized by accumulations of lipid - laden macrophages often rich in cholesterol .
the cessation of fetal or embryonic growth beyond a particular stage .
a uterus distended with a fluid containing large quantities of mucin .
thickening of the cementum layer of the molars .
extravascular blood between retina and choroid
a focal malformation resembling a neoplasm which results from faulty development of an organ ;  composed of an abnormal mixture of tissue elements ,  or an abnormal proportion of a single element .
tiny yellow or white deposits of  lamellar or amorphous extracellular material that build up between retina and retinal pigment epithelium .
 intracellular aggregates of actin and actin - associated proteins first observed in neurons  ( nerve cells )  by asao hirano .
an increase in size of the spleen .
rupture of the intervertebral disc ,  usually dorsally to compress the spinal cord ,  secondary to trauma .
accumulation of clear large vacuoles in hepatocytes  ( most likely lipid pending frozen sections and oil red o or other lipid stains )  around central veins .
release of melanin pigment in the dermis .
degenerative changes in skeletal muscle including hyalinization ,  swelling ,  fragmentation ,  vacuolation eventually resulting in death of muscle fibers .
fragmentation and erosion of articular cartilage .
pink amorphous material  ( amyloid )  deposited within the renal tubules .
an old organized thrombus that has been recanalized to permit blood flow .
various degrees of pulmonary interstitial fibrosis .
protrusion of a loop or wall of an organ through an abnormal opening .
neoplastic proliferation of cuboidal cells lining alveoli most likely type ii pneumocytes .
free pigment in anterior chamber / elsewhere in eye .
loss of hair resulting from a behavioral abnormality in which the mouse ,  or more often other mice mice in the same box ,  remove hairs ,  initially vibrissae ,  from each other .
the forestomach of the mouse is lined by stratified squamous epithelia .
spleen contains foci of macrophages containing yellow brown pigment that is positive for iron using prussian blue .
small foci of mineralization within the interstitium between alveoli .
chronic inflammation in and around small and medium sized arteries ,  often in more than one location .
foci of mineralization within the interstitium of a tissue .
small foci of mineralization within the interstitium between tubules .
appearance of clinical and / or subclinical signs and symptoms associated with pregnancy when the animal is not pregnant
congenital appearance of a body part or tissue or cell type in a region where it is not normally found  (  topographical anomaly )  .
marked dilatation of the ovarian bursa .
linear palisaiding of nuclei within thin pale muscle fibers suggestive of repair .
thyroid gland follicles are filled with colloid but vary greatly in size .
salivary gland duct occlusion resulting in massive enlargement forming a large cyst - like structure .
a fracture is the  ( local )  separation of a bone into two ,  or more ,  pieces under the action of stress .
break in bone associated with exostoses .
the lamina propria is distended with amorphous hyalinized material interpreted to be amyloid protein .
a meckel's diverticulum is a pouch on the wall of the lower part of the intestine that is present at birth .
necrosis associated with or caused by local bacterial infection .
necrosis of the uterine wall  with large bacterial colonies on its surface .
stricto sensu: replacement of one body part or tissue by an homologous structure or tissue ,  but commonly used incorrectly to describe non - homologous transformations better described as heterotopias or ectopias .
abnormal organ dimensions or weight
abnormality of extent of the normal long axis
abnormal mass of organ
abnormal length of the intestine .
focal necrosis in the liver often but not always associated with thrombosis .
exertion of abnormal force on a structure or structures usually resulting in deformation and damage .
a spermatocoele is a cyst that contains spermatozoa .
formation of urinary concretions in any part of the kidney .
https: /  / doi .org / 10 .1038 / srep41807
formation or urinary concretions in the ureter .
incomplete closure of a void or lumen due to failure of growth or fusion of bounding walls .
pseudoxanthoma elasticum is a progressive disorder characterized by accumulated deposits of calcium and other minerals in elastic fibers .
softening of brain tissue ,  usually caused by vascular insufficiency or degenerative changes .
collapse of the eye globe associated with degenerative changes .
follicular dystrophy ,  rupture ,  foreign body reaction ,  ulceration ,  scarring ,  pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia are part of a syndrome commonly called b6 dermatitis in black strains of mice .
degeneration and resorption of an ovarian follicle before it reaches maturity and ruptures .
marked production of granulocytes ,  primarily neutrophils ,  usually in response to a major acute inflammatory response .
the drying ,  thickening  and coagulation of extracellular secretions or fluids .
ventral prolapse of the intervertebral disk .
the testicle twisted around the vascular tract to constrict flow resulting in liquifactive necrosis of the affected testicle .
dermal granuloma surrounding hair fibers .
abnormal position or orientation of a structure insufficient to be called a heterotopia .
retinal degeneration of both eyes .
occlusion of a vessel by a piece of dissected cartilage .
proliferation of the reticuloendothelial cells in the medulla of the lymph node .
an increase in the size of the spleen due to ongoing acute or chronic infection .
digested blood in the lumen of the stomach or small intestine ,  indicative of hemorrhage .
round  ,  often laminar ,  non - proteinaceous eosinophilic bodies representing calcium deposition .
lack of sperm .
compromise or abnormality of the process of spermatogenesis
reduced numbers of sperm .
scoliosis is an abnormal curvature of the spine .
dead and dying adipose tissue ,  characterized by the formation of small gray or white foci of soapy  ( saponified )  cellular debris .
occlusion  (  partial or complete )  of a lumen or space ,  internally by a space occupying mass or ,  in the case of stenosis ,  by local reduction in the diameter of a vessel ,  duct or the intestine .
dorsal prolapse of the intervertebral disk .
presence of dorsal and ventrally prolapsed disks in the same vertebral column .
eversion through the anus .
thickening of trabecular bone .
large numbers of thin - walled dilated lymphatic channels situated in the dermis ,  subcutis or skeletal muscle .
variant of cavernous lymphangioma  ( mpath:804 )  showing gross dilatation of lymphatic channels .
cutaneous grouped collection of thin - walled translucent vessels ,  which appear at birth or in early infancy and are commonest around the limb girdles .
large cystic subcutaneous spaces usually found in the flexures ,  especially around the neck .
accumulation of interstitial fluid caused by blockage or failure of the lymphatic system .
edema of the posterior aspect of the fetal neck caused by an accumulation of fluid ,  usually lymph .
presence of a hole / channel through a normally imperforate structure often a membrane or septum .
degenerative changes in hair follicles resulting in a deformed hair fiber ,  sometimes root sheath hyperplasia and follicular rupture .
deposition of minerals in the epicardium .
a collection of fluid underneath the top layer of skin  ( epidermis )  .
lesions of a connective tissue disease causing blisters in the skin and mucosal membranes .
locally circumscribed regions of fatty change .
subtype of steatosis with hepatocytes containing a large well - defined single rounded vacuole within each cell ,  nucleus and cytoplasm displaced to the periphery , 
variant form of hepatic steatosis .
form of degenerative process in which there is intracytoplasmic fluid accumulation secondary to disturbance of cell membrane integrity .
persistence of an embryonic structure or tissue into the post - natal period in its normal location ;   ( chronological / temporal anomaly )  .
increase in size of the thyroid gland caused initially by uniform follicular epithelial hyperplasia generally in response to iodine deficiency .
tissue showing smaller mass as a consequence of deficient proliferation or premature differentiation .
reduced mass of galt resulting form fewer cells .
a benign neoplasm characterized by mucous and fibroblastic tissues .
a benign localized neoplasm arising from the subcutaneous tissues and skeletal muscle .
generation of intracytoplasmic vacuoles otherwise unspecified .
granulomatous inflammation of the skin
chronic inflammation of the skin
locally demarcated region of inflammation in the skin
possession of both ovary and testis due to primary sex determination defect
any defect in the formation of septae not describable as perforation .
repair ,  reproduction ,  or replacement of lost or injured cells ,  tissues ,  or organs .
multilocular sites of muscle regeneration with centrally located nuclei .
persistent retraction of the prepuce behind the glans penis
transition between acute and chronic inflammation .
non - malignant neoplasia of the ovary .
acute inflammation due to infection .
fibrosis in the skin
fatty change in the mid - zonal region of the liver .
carcinoma with an absence of epithelial structural differentiation .
anaplastic carcinoma of the liver .
additional structure whether normally located or not .
arthitis involving extensive macrophage infiltration into the joint .
absence of eye .
abnormally shaped vertebral body often triangular as opposed to rectangular .
cessation of movement of a body fluid or liquid .
cessation of the flow of bile due to bile duct blockage or overproduction .
evidence of residual placenta in utero without embryo .
acute inflammation of the footpad caused by foreign body .
collection of epithelioid macrophages into a nodule
replacement of normal tissue by granuloma .
poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the mammary gland
alteration in the differentiation of a cell or tissue already showing a different ,  recognisable ,  differentiated state .
morphological abnormality following trauma or related insult such as infection .
acquired dysmorphology of the external pinna following trauma or infection .
plasmacytosis is a hyperplastic condition in which there is an unusually large proportion of mature plasma cells in tissues ,  exudates ,  or blood .
systemic manifestation of plasmacytosis .disseminated in the circulation .
cutaneous manifestation of plasmacytosis
in vivo formation of intensely eosinophilic material  ( radiate ,  star - like ,  asteroid or club - shaped configurations )  around microorganisms  ( fungi ,  bacteria and parasites )  or biologically inert substances .
rupture of alveolar walls result in large rounded open air spaces in the lung
mutilocular bullous emphysema
benign proliferation of capillaries made up of closely packed aggregations of capillaries ,  usually of normal caliber ,  separated by scant connective stroma .
chronic granulomatous bacterial infection that affects the skin ,  and sometimes the viscera .
developmental defect characteristic of a particular organ or organ system which may be a recognised syndrome or a complex defect showing multiple manifestations .
inflammation of the gall bladder
cholecystitis associated with edema
accumulation or trapping of air
circumscribed ulceration of the skin penetrating the basement membrane as part of  inflammation process .
inflammation of the outer ear .
papillomatous inflammation of the tongue caused by a foreign body .
thickening of the glandular epithelium
major hepatic vein surrounded by fibrous connective tissue .
dilation of the uterus
condition in which a part of the intestine has invaginated into another section of intestine , 
abnormal morphology ,  differentiation or location of primordial germ cells or their descendents .
severe type of the disorder generally apparent at birth .junctional epidermolysis bullosa involves defects in hemidesmosomes .
structural defects of the bony and muscular components of the vertebrae .
abnormality of the kyphotic curvature of the spine .
reduced size of the eye globe .
an inflammatory condition of the lung ,  especially affecting the alveoli ,  associated with fever ,  chest symptoms ,  and congestion .
pneumonia caused by aspiration of a foreign body .
inflammation of the tooth gum
inflammation of the tooth gum caused by a foreign body .
fibrotic reaction to presence of a foreign body .
inflammatory cell infiltrate around bile ducts within the liver .
an interstitial ,  granulomatous ,  fibrosing inflammation of the lung ,  especially of the bronchioles and alveoli .
pneumonitis involving subpleural histiocytosis .
metastatic tumour of unspecified origin
metastatic tumour of unspecified origin in the lung .
metastatic tumor in the lymphatic vessels or lymph nodes of unspecified origin .
hypertrophy of the nail bed resulting in abnormally long ,  curved and thickened nails .
abnormal development of the heart or vascular tissue resulting in morphological abnormality .
necrosis in which the necrotic tissue shows deeply eosinophilic staining similar to that of fibrin .
localised dilation of an artery or heart chamber usually due to an acquired or congenital weakness of the wall of the artery or chamber .
formation of vessels between arterioles and venules bypassing capillary circulation .
structural ,  organisational or growth related defects in cardiac development .
abnormality in the wall between the atria or ventricles ,  or defects in the truncoconal septum ,  of the heart ;  usually incomplete closure .
malformation of the membranous folds of the heart that prevent reflux of fluid .
thickening of the wall of one or both of the heart ventricles .
reduction in cell number of one or both of the two lower chambers of the heart .
follows the presence of a hematoma in the wall of an artery splitting of the media occurs ,  blood enters the split through a tear in the intima .
a stretching and widening of the lymphatic vessels .
an enlarged and often tortuous vein .
