aphanumeric string  ( 1 to 8 digits )  which univocally identify a partecipant / subject .
month of anthropometry assessment counted from 1900 ;  e .g .
for past smokers: time in years since quitting smoking
month of physical activity assessment by questionnaire counted from 1900 ;  e .g .
categories of physical activity level \ n1=low ;  2= medium ;  3= high
total physical activity in met - hours / day  ( without sedentary or sleeping time )  derived from questionnaire data
physical activity from recreational or leisure - time activities in met - hours / day derived from questionnaire data
time spent in light physical activity in minutes / day derived from questionnaire data
time spent in moderate physical activity in minutes / day derived from questionnaire data
time spent in vigorous physical activity in minutes / day derived from questionnaire data
time spent sedentary  ( pc use ,  tv watching )  in minutes / day derived from questionnaire data
number of physical activity bouts of moderate or vigorous physical activity of at least 10 minutes per day
month of physical activity assessment by accelerometer counted from 1900 ;  e .g .
time spent in light physical activity in minutes / day derived from accelerometer data
time spent in moderate physical activity in minutes / day derived from accelerometer data
time spent in vigorous physical activity in minutes / day derived from accelerometer data
time spent sedentary in minutes / day derived from accelerometer data
number of bouts of moderate or vigorous physical activity per day
average minutes per bout of moderate or vigorous physical activity per day
dietary assessment used for uploaded dietary variables \ n1=24 - hour recall ;  2=ffq ;  3=food record ;  4=other
month of dietary assessment counted from 1900 ;  e .g .
carbohydrate intake per unit time
fiber intake per unit time
total fat intake per unit time
saturated fatty acid intake per unit time
monounsaturated fatty acid intake per unit time
polyunsaturated fatty acid intake per unit time
protein intake in per unit time
month of blood draw counted from 1900 ;  e .g .
fasting status before blood draw  ( measured in hours of fasting before blood draw )   \ n1=less than 9 hours ;  2=9 hours or more
the process of collecting information on the diet / eating habits of a subject using a questionnaire .
a study short name is a short alphanumeric string used to abbreviate a study proper name  ( omiabis_0000037 ) 
name of the consortium which the study refers to
the name of the method used for randomization  ( obcs_0000089 )  ,  if any randomization was adopted .
indicate whether blinded experiment were conducted or not
if blinded experiment were conducted ,  indicate the method used for blinding
indicated whether the study is terminated or not
indicate whethet the compliance was assessed or not
the ration between the circumference of the waist to that of the hips
a  ( short )  alphanumeric string which identify the event / tretment
an alphanumeric string which identify and describe the event / tretment
short description of the sampling method used  ( i .e .
a long description of the sampling method used
long text describing the assay used .
platform used for the assay
the unique sampling event identifier for the sample collection producing the sample
this field is usually 0 for the overall intervention but may be several time points for challenges ,  e .g .
this class should not be used as an ontology term ,  it is included as a superclass for the purpose to give a better organization to the ontology .
this class should not be used as an ontology term ,  it is included as a superclass for the purpose to give a better organization to the ontology .
start tab .this class should not be used as an ontology term ,  it is included as a superclass for the purpose to give a better organization to the ontology .
events tab .this class should not be used as an ontology term ,  it is included as a superclass for the purpose to give a better organization to the ontology .
sampling tab .this class should not be used as an ontology term ,  it is included as a superclass for the purpose to give a better organization to the ontology .
informations tab .this class should not be used as an ontology term ,  it is included as a superclass for the purpose to give a better organization to the ontology .
the process of collecting various chemical - biological data  ( e .g .
the process of collecting data from a sample using 'omic' technologies
type of omic assay performed  ( i .e .
assay type  ( i .e .clinical chemistry assay: standard kit #34567 from 'vendor' assayed on a cobas mira analyzer ) 
a short text identifying the question
type of question or question variable code
type of physiology assay performed
an assay which purpose is to collect all the general information  ( e .g .
the subject  ( human )  participating in a nutritional study .
an experimental comparison study in which participants are allocated to treatment / intervention or control / placebo groups using a random mechanism  ( see randomisation )  .
a controlled trial where each study participant has both therapies ,  e .g ,  is randomised to treatment a first ,  at the crossover point they then start treatment b .
data are obtained from groups who have been exposed ,  or not exposed ,  to the new technology or factor of interest  ( eg from databases )  .
patients with a certain outcome or disease and an appropriate group of controls without the outcome or disease are selected  ( usually with careful consideration of appropriate choice of controls ,  matching ,  etc )  and then information is obtained on whether the subjects have been exposed to the factor under investigation .
a study that examines the relationship between diseases  ( or other health - related characteristics )  and other variables of interest as they exist in a defined population at one particular time  ( ie exposure and outcomes are both measured at the same time )  .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
component added to food to improve or preserve it
unwanted food component that makes the food no longer suitable for use
a food bioactive is a food component other than those needed to meet basic human nutritional needs  ( nutrients )  .
a nutrient is a food component used by the body for normal physiologic functions that guarantee survival and growth .
an ingredient is a material entity used as part for the preparatio of food .
the food is a complex matrix that is consumed by a person through the process of eating or drinking .
the regular course of eating and drinking adopted by a person
the diet administered during an intervention study .
a diet prescribed by a physician /  nutritionist to meet spe - cific nutritional needs of a person
the regular course of eating and drinking adopted by a population in a certain geographical area ,  or in a certain cultural setting ,  or following certain common eating behaviour .
cook role is the role of the person responsible for food prepraration
a meal is an eating / drinking occasion which usually accours at certain time during the day .
the consumption of liquids .not for drinking alcohol or alcohol consumption  (  = alcohol drinking )  ;  differentiate from drinking behavior .
the consumption of edible substances .
a class which groups the data item collected as results from the subject information collection assay
a class which groups the data item collected as results from the dietary assessment assay
a class which groups the data item collected as results from the chemical biological assay
a class which groups the data item collected as results from the analysis performed with an omics platform
a class which groups the data item collected as results from the physical activity assay
food preparation is the process in which food is made .
dietary pattern represent the quantity ,  proportion ,  variety and combination of different foods and drinks consumed in meals ,  and the frequency with which they are habitually consumed .
an objective measurement to assess the exposure  ( including food intake )  ,  effect ,  or succeptibility of the human organism  ( or an animal etc . ) 
an exposure biomarker reflects the level of extrinsic variables that humans are exposed to ,  such as diets or food compounds ,  including nutrients and non - nutrients .
an effect biomarker reflects the funciontal response of the human body to an exposure .
measurable indicator including genetic or acquired host factors and intrinsic factors ,  influencing the response of an individual to a  ( dietary )  exposure .
a raw food is an uncooked ,  unprocessed food that is consumed in its natural state
a processed food is the result of the process of home or industrial food preparation
digestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water - soluble food molecules .
process mainly occurring in the small intestine and allowing the passage of the biaoccessible food components from the gastro - intestinal lumen into the blood vessels .
sum of the chemical changes occurring to nutrients and food component within the body .
finite list of foods and beverages with response categories to indicate usual frequency of consumption over the time period queried .
a structured interview intended to capture detailed information about all foods and beverages  ( and possibly ,  dietary supplements )  consumed by the respondent in the past 24 hours ,  most commonly ,  from midnight to midnight the previous day .
a food diary is a record of eaten foods on a meal - by - meal ,  daily ,  or weekly basis .
nutritional researcher role is the role of a researcher with specific training and expertise in the nutritional science field
