an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
b is a continuant fiat boundary = def .
a  quinolone that is quinolin - 4 ( 1h )  - one bearing cyclopropyl ,  carboxylic acid ,  fluoro and piperazin - 1 - yl substituents at positions 1 ,  3 ,  6 and 7 ,  respectively .
a quinolinemonocarboxylic acid with broad - spectrum antibacterial activity against most gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria .
a piperazine compound having 1 , 2 - benzothiazol - 3 - yl -  and 2 -  ( 6 - chloro - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 - oxindol - 5 - yl ) ethyl substituents attached to the nitrogen atoms .
a 5 -  [ 2 -  ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ]  - 2 -  ( 4 - methoxyphenyl )  - 4 - oxo - 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydro - 1 , 5 - benzothiazepin - 3 - yl acetate in which both stereocentres have s configuration .
a barbiturate ,  the structure of which is that of 2 - thiobarbituric acid substituted at c - 5 by ethyl and sec - pentyl groups .
a sulfonamide consisting of pyrimidine with methyl substituents at the 4 -  and 6 - positions and a 4 - aminobenzenesulfonamido group at the 2 - position .
a naphthol carrying a hydroxy group at position 1 .
a naphthol carrying a hydroxy group at position 2 .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
a n - arylpiperazine that is piperazine carrying a 3 - chlorophenyl substituent at position 1 .
a methylbenzoic acid carrying a methyl substituent at position 3 .
any member of the class of naturally - occurring straight - chain fatty acids n carbon atoms long with a carboxyl group at position 1 and a hydroxyl at position n  ( omega )  .
a member of the class of  benzamides resulting from the formal condensation of 4 - amino - 5 - chloro - 2 - methoxybenzoic acid with the primary amino group of n , n - diethylethane - 1 , 2 - diamine .
an organic sodium salt resulting from the replacement of the proton from the 3 - hydroxy group of ascorbic acid by a sodium ion .
benzothiazole substituted with a hydroxy group at the 2 - position .
a member of the class of phenylureas that is urea in which both of the hydrogens attached to one nitrogen are substituted by methyl groups ,  and one of the hydrogens attached to the other nitrogen is substituted by a 3 , 4 - dichlorophenyl group .
a monocarboxylic acid amide resulting from the formal condensation of the aryl amino group of n - phenyl - 1 -  ( 2 - phenylethyl ) piperidin - 4 - amine with propanoic acid .
a  secondary amino compound having methyl and 3 -  ( 2 - methylphenoxy )  - 3 - phenylpropan - 1 - yl substituents .
a group of fat - soluble retinoids produced via metabolism of provitamin a carotenoids .
a disaccharide formed by a  ( 1 <  -  > 1 )  - glycosidic bond between two hexopyranose units .
any steroid substituted by a formyl group .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mycoplasma genitalium .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 27 - carbon  ( cholestane )  skeleton .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 19 - carbon  ( androstane )  skeleton .
a dna polymerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a dna - directed dna polymerase  ( ec 2 .7 .7 .7 )  .
a ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of channel - conductance - controlling atpase  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .49 ,  also known as cystic fibrosis conductance regulator ,  cfcr )  .
an organosulfonate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the n - sulfo group of any sulfamic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an unsaturated fatty acid anion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group of any octadecanoid .
an octadecanoid anion anion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group of any hydroperoxyoctadecadienoic acid .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid anion carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of  ( r )  - imazamox .
a class of carbonyl compound encompassing dicarboxylic acids and any derivatives obtained by substitution of either one or both of the carboxy hydrogens .
an n - sulfonylurea in which the sulfur atom is attached to a 2 - carboxythiophen - 3 - yl group and in which the non - sulfonated nitrogen is substituted by a 4 - methoxy - 6 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl group .
any member of the class of benzoquinones that is 1 , 4 - benzoquinone or its c - substituted derivatives .
any quinone in which one or more of the carbons making up the quinone moiety is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a naphthoquinone in which the oxo groups of the quinone moiety are at positions 1 and 4 of the parent naphthalene ring .
any naphthoquinone in which the naphthaoquinone moiety is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any member of the class of 1 , 4 - naphthoquinones in which the naphthoquinone moiety is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
a secondary aliphatic ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the amino group of diethylamine .
a primary amine that is isopropylamine in which a hydrogen attached to one of the methyl groups has been replaced by a phenyl group .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the secondary amino function of phenylephrine .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the secondary amino function of methamphetamine .
a perfluoroalkanesulfonic acid that is butane - 1 - sulfonic acid in which all of the hydrogens of the butyl group have been replaced by fluorines .
an organosulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is directly attached to a perfluoroalkyl group .
a perfluoroalkanesulfonic acid that is hexane - 1 - sulfonic acid in which all thirteen of the hydrogens that are attached to carbons have been replaced by fluorines .
any aromatic amide obtained by acylation of aniline .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid containing 20 carbons and 4 double bonds .
a reagent that lightens or whitens a substrate through chemical reaction .
a member of the class of lysophosphatidic acids obtained by hydrolytic removal of one of the two acyl groups of any phosphatidic acid .
a sulfonamide consisting of pyridine with a 4 - aminobenzenesulfonamido group at the 2 - position .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of ibuprofen ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organic sodium salt that is the disodium salt of gmp .
an octadecenoate in which the double bond is at c - 9 .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of maleic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of oxalic acid .
a carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group 2 -  ( 4 - { [ 5 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) pyridin - 2 - yl ] oxy}phenoxy ) propanoic acid with the hydroxy group of butan - 1 - ol .
a butyl 2 -  ( 4 - { [ 5 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) pyridin - 2 - yl ] oxy}phenoxy ) propanoate that has r configutation .
a butyl 2 -  ( 4 - { [ 5 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) pyridin - 2 - yl ] oxy}phenoxy ) propanoate that has s configuration .
a drug that makes increases the sensitivity of tumour cells to radiation therapy .
any organic heteroolycyclic compound whose skeleton two ortho - fused chromene rings ,  and their derivatives .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of  ( s )  - imazamox .
a fatty aldehyde in which there is no carbon - carbon unsaturation .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid that contains no carbon - carbon double bonds .
an inorganic oxide that is an oxide of any metal .
an l - alpha - amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - lysine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy and one of the phosphate oh groups as well as protonation of the amino group of glyphosate .
a nitroalkane in which the nitro group is attached to a terminal carbon .
an organochlorine compound derived from methane ,  ethane or propane that contains atoms of carbon ,  chlorine ,  and fluorine only .
an organochlorine compound derived from methane ,  ethane or propane that contains atoms of hydrogen ,  chlorine ,  fluorine ,  and carbon only .
any member of the class of ureas in which at least one of the nitrogens of the urea moiety is substituted by a phenyl or substituted phenyl group .
an oxacycle that is 4h - pyran in which the methylene group at position 4 is replaced by an oxygen .
organochlorine compounds that are polychlorinated dibenzodioxines and structurally related entities that are persistant organic pollutants .
a member of the class of benzofurans that is benzofuran in which two or more of the hydrogens have reen replaced by chlorines .
a bromoarene that consists of a biphenyl skeleton substituted by one or more bromo groups .
a biphenyl compound containing between 2 and 10 bromine atoms attached to the two benzene rings .
a polybromobiphenyl that is biphenyl in which the hydrogens at positions 2 ,  2' ,  4 ,  4' ,  5 ,  and 5' have been replace by bromines .
any metal oxide in which the metallic component is copper .
an organofluorine compound containing only c - f bonds  ( no c - h bonds )  and c - c bonds but also other heteroatoms  ( particularly other halogens ,  oxygen ,  and sulfur )  .
an arsonium ion that is choline in which the central nitrogen has been replaced by arsenic .
an aromatic ether that is diphenyl ether carrying between 2 and 10 bromo substituents attached to the two benzene rings .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to r ,  which can represent hydrogens ,  a carbon chain ,  or other groups .
any phenol carrying an additional methoxy substituent at the ortho - position .
an alcohol where the hydroxy group is attached to a saturated carbon atom adjacent to a double bond  ( r groups may be h ,  organyl ,  etc .
an aliphatic alcohol where the hydroxy carbon is beta to a double bond .
an n - oxide where there are three organic groups bonded to the nitrogen atom .
an allylic alcohol in which the carbon atom that links the double bond to the hydroxy group is also attached to two hydrogens .
an allylic alcohol in which the carbon atom that links the double bond to the hydroxy group is also attached to one other carbon and one hydrogen .
an allylic alcohol in which the carbon atom that links the double bond to the hydroxy group is also attached to two other carbons  ( r4 , r5 = / = h )  .
a class containing any titanium molecular entity that is an oxide of titanium .
a nanoparticle composed of any titanium oxide .
a 5 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any diastereomer of jasmonic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a diol in which the two hydroxy groups are on different carbon atoms ,  usually but not necessarily adjacent .
organonitrogen compounds that have the general structure r ( 1 )  ( r ( 2 )  ) c=n ( o ) oh  ( r ( 1 )  , r ( 2 )  = h ,  organyl )  .
a prodrug that ,  on administration ,  undergoes chemical conversion by biochemical  ( enzymatic )  ,  chemical  ( possibly following an enzymatic step )  ,  or physical  ( e .g .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by metabolic processes before becoming the pharmacologically active insecticide for which it is a proinsecticide .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by biochemical  ( enzymatic )  ,  chemical  ( possibly following an enzymatic step )  ,  or physical  ( e .g .
an organic heterobicyclic compound whose skeleton consists of a pyrazole ring ortho - fused to a diazepine ring .
a tetrachlorobiphenyl that is biphenyl in which the hydrogens at position 3 and 4 on each phenyl group are replaced by chlorines .
a member of the class of azetidines that is melagatran in which the carboxylic acid group has been converted into the corresponding ethyl ester and in which the amidine group has been converted to the corresponding hydroxylamine .
an organic group derived from any 3 - oxo - delta ( 4 )  - steroid .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  undergoes conversion by biochemical  ( enzymatic )  ,  chemical  ( possibly following an enzymatic step )  ,  or physical  ( e .g .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralise the nerve agent sarin .
any steroid that has beta - configuration at position 5 .
a benzoate that is the conjugate base of acetylsalicylic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of any secondary amino compound ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a quinoxaline pesticide that has herbicidal activity .
a 2 - {4 -  [  ( 6 - chloroquinoxalin - 2 - yl ) oxy ] phenoxy}propanoic acid that has r configuration .
a monocarboxylic acid that is 2 - phenoxypropanoic acid in which the phenyl group is substituted at the para position by a  ( 6 - chloroquinoxalin - 2 - yl ) oxy group .
a 2 - {4 -  [  ( 6 - chloroquinoxalin - 2 - yl ) oxy ] phenoxy}propanoic acid that has s configuration .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of 11beta - hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .146 )  .
an ethyl ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 2 - {4 -  [  ( 6 - chloroquinoxalin - 2 - yl ) oxy ] phenoxy}propanoic acid with ethanol .
an ethyl 2 - {4 -  [  ( 6 - chloroquinoxalin - 2 - yl ) oxy ] phenoxy}propanoate that has r configuration .
an ethyl 2 - {4 -  [  ( 6 - chloroquinoxalin - 2 - yl ) oxy ] phenoxy}propanoate that has s configuration .
a chloroalkane that is propane in which a hydrogen from each of the terminal methyl groups has been replaced by a chlorine .
an atom of an element that exhibits properties that are between those of metals and nonmetals ,  or that has a mixture of them .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino group of any tertiary amino compound .
an n - alkylpyrrolidine that consists of n - methylpyrrolidine bearing a pyridin - 3 - yl substituent at position 2 .
a polybromodiphenyl ether that is diphenyl ether in which the hydrogens at the 2 ,  2' ,  and 4 positions have been replaced by bromines .
any compound that can disrupt the functions of the endocrine  ( hormone )  system
a polybromodiphenyl ether that is diphenyl ether in which the hydrogens at the 2 ,  4 ,  and 4' positions have been replaced by bromines .
a polybromodiphenyl ether that is diphenyl ether in which the hydrogens at the 2 ,  4 ,  3' ,  and 4' positions have been replaced by bromines .
a polybromodiphenyl ether that is diphenyl ether in which the hydrogens at the 2 ,  3 ,  4 ,  2' ,  and 4' positions have been replaced by bromines .
a polybromodiphenyl ether that is diphenyl ether in which the hydrogens at the 2 ,  4 ,  6 ,  2' ,  and 4' positions have been replaced by bromines .
a perfluorinated compound that is perfluorooctane in which one of the terminal fluorines has been replace by a sulfamoyl group .
a bronsted acid derived from one or more inorganic compounds .
any c21 - steroid carrying a hydroxy substituent at the 17alpha - position .
an organic nitrogen anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the n - sulfonylcarboxamide moiety of fomesafen .
any pathway inhibitor that acts on the carotenoid biosynthesis pathway .
any member of a group of hydroxy steroids occuring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
an apoprotein is a protein devoid of its characteristic prosthetic group or metal .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate oh group of any dialkyl phosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a jasmonate anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of  (  +  )  - jasmonic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
any carotenoid derivative with a psi - end group .
any carotenoid derivative with an beta - end group
a nitroalkane in which the nitro group ,   - no2 ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has two other carbon atoms attached to it .
an oxo monocarboxylic acid that is  ( 3 - oxocyclopentyl ) acetic acid substituted by a  ( 2z )  - pent - 2 - en - 1 - yl group at position 2 of the cyclopentane ring .
an agent that inhibits the passage of cations through the transient receptor potential  ( trp )  channels .
a chemical compound that causes a substantial proportion of exposed people or animals to develop an allergic reaction in normal tissue after repeated exposure to the compound .
an ec 1 .3 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group ,  nad +  or nadp +  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of enoyl -  [ acyl - carrier - protein ]  reductase  ( nadh )  ,  ec 1 .3 .1 .9 .
an alpha - oxyketone that has a hydroxy group as the alpha - oxy moiety .
a carboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any retinoid carboxy group .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a  - ch2  ( methylene )  group .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a carbon bearing two organyl groups .
an acetate ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of acetic acid with the hydroxy group of any phenol .
a compound that contains three ketone functionalities .
a triketone in which the each ketone functionality is located beta -  to the other two .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with ammonia ;  formula rc ( =o ) nh2 .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with a primary amine ;  formula rc ( =o ) nhr ( 1 )  .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with a secondary amine ;  formula rc ( =o ) nhr ( 1 ) r ( 2 )  .
any hydroxyflavanone having a hydroxy substituent located at position 4' .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a phenolate anion resulting from the deprotonation of the phenolic hydroxy group of 2 , 4 , 6 - trichlorophenol .
an agonist that binds to and deactivates the tropomyosin - related kinase b  ( trkb )  receptor ,  the main signaling receptor of the neurotrophin brain - derived neurotrophic factor  ( bdnf )  .
an aluminosilicate mineral with approximate chemical composition h2al2si2o8 .h2o .
a mixture consisting principally of the mineral kaolinite and containing varying amounts of other minerals such as muscovite ,  quartz ,  feldspar ,  and anatase .
any saturated fatty acid containing 4 carbons .
an inhibitor of any of the glioma - associated oncogene  ( gli )  proteins .
a mitochondrial cytochrome - bc1 complex inhibitor that acts at the quinone 'outer'  ( qo )  binding site of the cytochrome - bc1 complex .
an organic hydroxy compound resulting from the hydrolysis of the the pivalate ester group of the proherbicide pinoxaden .
a member of the class of benzoates resuting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of 3 , 6 - dichloro - 2 - methoxybenzoic acid  ( dicamba )  .
a diester that is diethyl succinate in which position 2 is substituted by a  ( dimethoxyphosphorothioyl ) thio group .
a diethyl 2 -  [  ( dimethoxyphosphorothioyl ) thio ] succinate that is the r - enantiomer of malathion .
a diethyl 2 -  [  ( dimethoxyphosphorothioyl ) thio ] succinate that is the s - enantiomer of malathion .
any member of the class of biphenyls that has one or more carboxy groups attached to the biphenyl skeleton .
an organic amino compound that is a hemiaminal in which the hydrogen atom of the hydroxy group has been replaced by an organyl group .
a primary ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the amino group of l - tyrosinal .
any carbobycyclic compound that is an hexahydronaphthalene or a compound obtained from an hexahydronaphthalene by formal substitution of one or more hydrogens .
a purine ribonucleoside that is a purine derivative attached to a beta - d - ribofuranosyl residue at position 9 via a glycosidic  ( n - glycosyl )  linkage .
a chloroalkane that is propane in which a hydrogen from each of two adjacent carbons has been replaced by chlorines .
a 1 , 2 - dichloropropane that has r configuration .
a 1 , 2 - dichloropropane that has s configuration .
a organic ion resulting from the deprotonation of the hydroxy group of any oxime .
a secondary ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the secondary amino group of tamsulosin .
a secondary amino compound that is ammonia in which nitrogen is substituted by a 1 -  ( 4 - methoxy - 3 - sulfamoylphenyl ) propan - 2 - yl group and a 2 -  ( 2 - ethoxyphenoxy ) ethyl group .
a 5 -  ( 2 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 - ethoxyphenoxy ) ethyl ] amino}propyl )  - 2 - methoxybenzenesulfonamide that has  ( s )  - configuration .
a secondary ammonium ion resulting from the secondary amino group of ent - tamsulosin .
an organic nitrogen anion resulting from the deprotonation of the n - acylsulfonamide moiety of asulam .
any transient receptor potential  ( trp )  channel modulator that modulates the trpv channels  ( v = vanilloid )  .
an agent that modulates the passage of cations through the transient receptor potential  ( trp )  channels .
an organic anion arising from deprotonation of the hydroxy group of an enol .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of d - homoserine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a compound having bonds between one or more metalloid atoms and one or more carbon atoms of an organyl group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
an  indol - 3 - yl carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of  indole - 3 - butyric acid ,  arising from the deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the dprotonation of the carboxy group of 4 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy ) butanoic acid  ( 2 , 4 - db )  .
a fatty alcohol consisting of a hydroxy function at any position of an unbranched saturated chain of five carbon atoms .
a chrysanthemol in which both chiral centres have r configuration .
an aldehyde resulting from the formal oxidation of the hydroxy group of  ( r , r )  - chrysanthemol .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of  (  +  )  - trans - chrysanthemic acid .
a member of the class of  ( trifluoromethyl ) benzenes that is 4 - amino - 2 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) benzonitrile in which one of the amino hydrogens is substituted by a 3 -  [  ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) sulfonyl ]  - 2 - hydroxy - 2 - methylpropanoyl group .
a n -  [ 4 - cyano - 3 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ]  - 3 -  [  ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) sulfonyl ]  - 2 - hydroxy - 2 - methylpropanamide that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of bicalutamide .
an agent that destroy spermatozoa in the male genitalia and block spermatogenesis .
a 2 -  [ 4 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy ) phenoxy ] propanoic acid that is the  ( r )  - enantiomer of diclofop .
a 2 -  [ 4 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy ) phenoxy ] propanoic acid that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of diclofop .
an aromatic ether that is 2 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenoxy ) propanoic acid in which the hydrogen of the hydroxy group at position 4 has been substituted by a 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl group .
a methyl ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxylic acid group of 2 -  [ 4 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy ) phenoxy ] propanoic acid with methanol .
a methyl 2 -  [ 4 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy ) phenoxy ] propanoate that is the  ( r )  - enantiomer of diclofop - methyl .
a methyl 2 -  [ 4 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy ) phenoxy ] propanoate that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of diclofop - methyl .
macrolides  ( macrocyclic lactones )  in which the macrocyclic ring contains more than one ester linkage .
a macropolylide which contains two ester linkages in one macrocyclic ring .
a macrolide in which the macrocyclic lactone ring includes an amide group .
a branched - chain saturated fatty acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of  ( s )  - 2 - methylbutanoic acid .
a 6 - methoxy - 11 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 , 9 , 10 , 10a - hexahydro - 2h - 10 , 4a -  ( epiminoethano ) phenanthrene in which the stereocenters at positions 4a ,  10 and 10a have r - configuration .
an organic heterotetracyclic compound that is 1 , 3 , 4 , 9 , 10 , 10a - hexahydro - 2h - 10 , 4a -  ( epiminoethano ) phenanthrene which is substituted by a methoxy group at position 6 and a methyl group at position 11 .
any substance that produces or enhances dream - like states of consciousness .
any inhibitor added to nitrogen fertilizers which can reduce the rate at which ammonium is converted to nitrate .
a quinolinium ion obtained by protonation of the quinoline nitrogen and tertiary amino group of the antimalarial drug chloroquine .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of losartan ,  obtained from the deprotonation of the tetrazole nh group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the tetrazole nh group and carboxy group of candesartan .
any agent that induces nausea and vomiting .
any antiviral agent which inhibits the activity of coronaviruses .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the secondary amino function of  ( 1s , 2r )  - ephedrine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained from the transfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group of d - dopa .
a  monocyclic heteroarene that is a five - membered organic heterocycle containing two nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 2 .
a molecular entity that can transfer an electron to another molecular entity .
an enal that consists of 3 , 7 - dimethyl - 9 - nona - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - tetraenal  ( double bond geometry unspecified )  carrying a 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - en - 1 - yl group at the 9 - position .
a palmitate ester of retinol with undefined geometry about the c=c bonds .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from hydrogen sulfide .
any chlorophenol derivative that contains three covalently bonded chlorine atoms .
a purine nucleobase found in humans and other organisms .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
the aldehyde formed from acetic acid by reduction of the carboxy group .
a methyl ketone that consists of propane bearing an oxo group at c2 .
a choline that is the parent compound of the cholines class ,  consisting of ethanolamine having three methyl substituents attached to the amino function .
actylcholine is an ester of acetic acid and choline ,  which acts as a neurotransmitter .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is propanoic acid with an amino group at position 2 and a sulfanyl group at position 3 .
a member of the class of benzoic acids that is salicylic acid in which the hydrogen that is attached to the phenolic hydroxy group has been replaced by an acetoxy group .
a simple monocarboxylic acid containing two carbons .
a retinoic acid in which all four exocyclic double bonds have e -   ( trans -  )  geometry .
an enal that is prop - 2 - ene with an oxo group at position 1 .
a large group of antibiotics isolated from various species of streptomyces and characterised by having a substituted phenoxazine ring linked to two cyclic heterodetic peptides .
an oxygen hydride consisting of an oxygen atom that is covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
a  phenethylamine alkaloid that is 2 - phenylethanamine substituted by a methyl group at the amino nitrogen and a methyl and a hydroxy group at position 2 and 1 respectively .
an adenosine 5' - phosphate in which the 5' - phosphate is a triphosphate group .
the simplest  ( and the only achiral )  proteinogenic amino acid ,  with a hydrogen atom as its side chain .
a triterpene consisting of 2 , 6 , 10 , 15 , 19 , 23 - hexamethyltetracosane having six double bonds at the 2 -  ,  6 -  ,  10 -  ,  14 -  ,  18 -  and 22 - positions with  ( all - e )  - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of alanine .
a peptide zwitterion obtained from the tranfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group of any tripeptide .
a group of compounds based on the naphthalene ring system where one or more hydrogen atoms have been replaced by chlorine .
major microspecies at ph 7 .3 .
aldehydic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h ,  n  > = 2 )  and their intramolecular hemiacetals .
the l - enantiomer of homoserine .
any alpha - amino acid having l - configuration at the alpha - carbon .
a methylaniline that is  aniline carrying a methyl substituent at the nitrogen atom .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
a member of the class of  alkylamines that is propane carrying an amino group at position 2 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of formic acid .
a member of the class of  butanals that consists of propane bearing a formyl substituent at the 1 - position .
a straight - chain ,  sixteen - carbon ,  saturated long - chain fatty acid .
an optically active form of dopa having l - configuration .
a member of the class of chloromethanes that is methane in which two of the hydrogens have been replaced by chlorine .
a primary aliphatic amine consisting of cyclohexane carrying an amino substituent .
any n - acyl - amino acid in which the amino acid moiety has d configuration .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy groups of malonic acid .
a d - alpha - amino acid that is the d - isomer of arginine .
an primary alcohol that is butan - 1 - ol in which a hydrogen at position 3 has been replaced by a methyl group .
a peptide containing ten or more amino acid residues .
a long - chain fatty acid that is a c20 ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid having four  ( z )  - double bonds at positions 5 ,  8 ,  11 and 14 .
a two - carbon primary aliphatic amine .
an organic hydroxy compound that consists of benzene bearing a single hydroxy substituent .
any 3 - hydroxy steroid whose skeleton is closely related to cholestan - 3 - ol  ( additional carbon atoms may be present in the side chain )  .
d - glucopyranose with beta configuration at the anomeric centre .
a fatty acid with a chain length ranging from c13 to c22 .
a diamino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine substituted by a chloro group at position 6 while one of hydrogens of each amino group is replaced respectively by an ethyl and a propan - 2 - yl group .
a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid that is pyridine in which the hydrogen at position 3 is replaced by a carboxy group .
an acyclic carotene commonly obtained from tomatoes and other red fruits .
an organic heterobicyclic compound that consists of 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazole having a valeric acid substituent attached to the tetrahydrothiophene ring .
a member of the class of sulfamic acids that is sulfamic acid  carrying an n - cyclohexyl substituent .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having d - configuration .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity with a polymeric structure comprised of a linear sequence of 13 or more nucleotide residues .
a member of the class of  ethanolamines that is ethane with an amino substituent at c - 1 and a hydroxy substituent at c - 2 ,  making it both a primary amine and a primary alcohol .
an optically active form of lactate having  ( r )  - configuration .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having l - configuration .
a  pyrazolone  that is 1 , 2 - dihydro - 3h - pyrazol - 3 - one substituted by a dimethylamino group at position 4 ,  methyl groups at positions 1 and 5 and a phenyl group at position 2 .
a secondary nitroalkane that is propane in which a hydrogen at position 2 has been replaced by a nitro group .
an aminopyrimidine that is pyrimidin - 2 - one having the amino group located at position 4 .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
an alkene that is propane with a double bond at position 1 .
a retinal having 2e , 4z , 6e , 8e - double bond geometry .
an  alkylbenzene carrying an ethyl substituent .
a cholestanoid consisting of cholestane having a double bond at the 5 , 6 - position as well as a 3beta - hydroxy group .
a chlorophenylethane that is 1 , 1 , 1 - trichloro - 2 , 2 - diphenylethane substituted by additional chloro substituents at positions 4 of the phenyl substituents .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a sulfur hydride consisting of a single sulfur atom bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
the simplest member of the class of  benzoates that is the conjugate base of benzoic acid ,  comprising a benzoic acid core with a proton missing to give a charge of  - 1 .
a sulfuric ester obtained by the formal condensation of a hydroxy group of any steroid with sulfuric acid .
a dihydroxybenzoate that is the  conjugate base of o - orsellinic acid .
a carboxylic ester obtained by formal condensation of the hydroxy group of retinol with the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid .
a one - carbon compound in which the carbon is attached by single bonds to four hydrogen atoms .
a sulfur oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of both oh groups of sulfuric acid .
an octadec - 9 - enoic acid in which the double bond at c - 9 has z  ( cis )  stereochemistry .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from phosphonic acid
the arsenic oxoanion that is the conjugate base of dimethylarsinic acid .
an  azaarene comprising a benzene core in which one  - ch group is replaced by a nitrogen atom .
a 2 - aminopurine carrying a 6 - oxo substituent .
a primary alcohol that is ethane in which one of the hydrogens is substituted by a hydroxy group .
an inorganic peroxide consisting of two hydroxy groups joined by a covalent oxygen - oxygen single bond .
a pentahydroxyflavone having the five hydroxy groups placed at the 3 -  ,  3' -  ,  4' -  ,  5 -  and 7 - positions .
a lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or di - ester .
a member of the class of 2 - nitrophenols that is phenol in which one of the hydrogens that is ortho to the hydroxy group has been replaced by a nitro group .
a nitroalkane that is ethane substituted by a nitro group .
a tertiary amine that is aniline in which the amino hydrogens are replaced by two methyl groups .
a monocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens has been replaced by a halogen atom .
the nitrogen oxoanion formed by loss of a proton from nitrous acid .
the d - enantiomer of proline .
a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of adenine attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta - n ( 9 )  - glycosidic bond .
a 3' , 5' - cyclic purine nucleotide in which the purine nucleobase is specified as guanidine .
any member of the class of menaquinones that is 2 - methyl - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone with an unsaturated isoprenoid chain at the 3 - position .
an optically active form of cysteine having d - configuration .
compounds having the structure rsr  ( r = / = h )  .
the simplest monocarboxylic acid amide ,  obtained by formal condensation of formic acid with ammonia .
liposaccharide natural compounds consisting of a trisaccharide repeating unit  ( two heptose units and octulosonic acid )  with oligosaccharide side chains and 3 - hydroxytetradecanoic acid units  ( they are a major constituent of the cell walls of gram - negative bacteria )  .
the l - enantiomer of valine .
an aromatic ether that is phenol which is substituted at c - 5 by a chloro group and at c - 2 by a 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy group .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of propionic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 .
an l - alpha - amino acid that is the l - isomer of arginine .
the 17beta - isomer of estradiol .
a pentanone carrying an oxo substituent at position 2 .
a nitrogen oxide which is a free radical ,  each molecule of which consists of one nitrogen and one oxygen atom .
an aromatic hydrocarbon comprising two fused benzene rings .
a heterocyclic thia fatty acid comprising pentanoic acid with a 1 , 2 - dithiolan - 3 - yl group at the 5 - position .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - hydroxypropionic acid .
a one - carbon compound with formula co2 in which the carbon is attached to each oxygen atom by a double bond .
a naturally occurring polypeptide synthesized at the ribosome .
an  organochlorine compound with insecticidal activity .
a trehalose in which both glucose residues have alpha - configuration at the anomeric carbon .
a thioacetic acid that is acetic acid in which the oxygen atom of the hydroxy group has been replaced by a sulfur atom .
a one - carbon compound in which the carbon atom is attached to an oxygen and a sulfur atom via double bonds .
a monomethoxybenzene that is benzene substituted by a methoxy group .
a chlorophenylethylene that is ethylene substituted by two 4 - chlorophenyl groups at position 1 and two chlorine atoms at position 2 .
a member of the class of  chloroethenes that is ethene substituted by chloro groups at positions 1 ,  1 and 2 .
a propenol in which the c=c bond connects c - 2 and c - 3 .
a trisaccharide composed of alpha - d - galactopyranose ,  alpha - d - glucopyranose and beta - d - fructofuranose joined in sequence by 1 -  > 6 and 1 <  -  > 2 glycosidic linkages ,  respectively .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
an optically active form of lactate having  ( s )  - configuration .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
a 6 - oxo steroid that is 5beta - cholest - 7 - en - 6 - one substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 2 ,  3 ,  14 ,  22 and 25 respectively  ( the 2beta ,  3beta ,  22r stereoisomer )  .
a nitrile that is hydrogen cyanide in which the hydrogen has been replaced by an amino group .
a ribosyl or deoxyribosyl derivative of a pyrimidine or purine base in which c - 5 of the ribose ring is mono -  ,  di -  ,  tri -  or tetra - phosphorylated .
the parent compound of the 6 - aminopurines ,  composed of a purine having an amino group at c - 6 .
an organic heterobicyclic compound based on a fused 1 , 2 - thiazole and benzene bicyclic ring skeleton ,  with the s atom positioned adjacent to one of the positions of ring fusion .
a  morphinane alkaloid found in the opium poppy ,  papaver somniferum var .
a six - carbon aromatic annulene in which each carbon atom donates one of its two 2p electrons into a delocalised pi system .
a dichlorophenol that is phenol carrying chloro substituents at positions 2 and 4 .
an aminoalkylindole consisting of indole having a 2 - aminoethyl group at the 3 - position .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a methylthio substituent at position 4 .
a 21 - hydroxy steroid that consists of pregn - 4 - ene substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 11 and 21 and oxo groups at positions 3 and 20 .
the simplest of the methylamines ,  consisting of ammonia bearing a single methyl substituent .
a member of the class of 4 - nitrophenols that is phenol in which the hydrogen that is para to the hydroxy group has been replaced by a nitro group .
a member of the class of 2 - benzofurans that is 2 - benzofuran - 1 ( 3h )  - one which is substituted at positions 4 ,  5 ,  6 ,  and 7 by methyl ,  methoxy ,   ( 2e )  - 5 - carboxy - 3 - methylpent - 2 - en - 1 - yl ,  and hydroxy groups ,  respectively .
an aldehyde resulting from the formal oxidation of methanol .
the d - enantiomer of the alpha - amino acid lysine .
a tripeptide compound consisting of glutamic acid attached via its side chain to the n - terminus of cysteinylglycine .
a gamma - amino acid that is butanoic acid with the amino substituent located at c - 4 .
a quinoline n - oxide carrying a nitro substituent at position 4 .
a monohydroxybenzoic acid that is benzoic acid with a hydroxy group at the ortho position .
derivatives of phosphoglycerols which have only one of the alcohol groups of the glycerol backbone ester - linked with a fatty acid .
a c21 - steroid that is pregn - 4 - ene substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 17 and 21 and oxo group at positions 3 ,  11 and 20 .
a mineralocorticoid that is progesterone substituted at position 21 by a hydroxy group .
the l - enantiomer of alanine .
a ribose in which the chiral carbon atom furthest away from the aldehyde group  ( c4' )  has the same configuration as in d - glyceraldehyde .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is ethane substituted by carboxyl groups at positions 1 and 2 .
the d - enantiomer of phenylalanine .
d - ribitol in which the hydroxy group at position 5 is substituted by a 7 , 8 - dimethyl - 2 , 4 - dioxo - 3 , 4 - dihydrobenzo [ g ] pteridin - 10 ( 2h )  - yl moiety .
a c21 - steroid hormone in which a pregnane skeleton carries oxo substituents at positions 3 and 20 and is unsaturated at c ( 4 )  - c ( 5 )  .
an aminoglycan consisting of beta -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked n - acetyl - d - glucosamine residues .
a member of the class of hydroxybiphenyls that is biphenyl substituted by a hydroxy group at position 2 .
a nitrogen oxide consisting of linear unsymmetrical molecules with formula n2o .
the l - enantiomer of aspartic acid .
the d - enantiomer of glutamine .
a nitroaniline carrying a nitro group at position 4 .
a amino cyclitol glycoside that consists of streptidine having a disaccharyl moiety attached at the 4 - position .
a compound in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: r2c=o  ( neither r may be h )  .
an sn - glycero - 3 - phosphate compound having a single unspecified acyl group at either position 1 or position 2 .
a compound in which a carbohydrate component is covalently bound to a protein component .
a benzenoid aromatic compound that consists of two benzene rings connected by a single covalent bond .
a compound in which one or more of the oh groups of phosphoric acid have been replaced with an amino or substituted amino group .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexanoic acid  ( also known as caproic acid )  .
a four - carbon alkane - alpha , omega - diamine .
an aldehyde that consists of ethane bearing a formyl substituent .
a pyridinecarboxamide that is pyridine in which the hydrogen at position 3 is replaced by a carboxamide group .
a 2 - oxo aldehyde derived from propanal .
a secondary aliphatic amine where both n - substituents are methyl .
a dibromobenzene that is 2 , 6 - dibromophenol substituted by a cyano group at position 4 .
a halomethane that is chloromethane in which one of the hydrogens has been replaced by a bromine atom .
pyrrolidine in which the pro - s hydrogen at position 2 is substituted by a carboxylic acid group .
a butenoic acid having the double bond at position c - 2 .
any 3beta - hydroxy - steroid that contains a double bond between positions 5 and 6 .
a cresol with the methyl substituent at position 3 .
an aldohexose used as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate .
the 1h - tautomer of pyrazole .
a one - carbon compound in which the carbon is joined only to a single oxygen .
the 7h - tautomer of purine .
a 17 - oxo steroid that is estra - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 )  - triene substituted by an hydroxy group at position 3 and an oxo group at position 17 .
the conjugate base of propionic acid ;  a key precursor in lipid biosynthesis .
the l - enantiomer of phenylalanine .
a primary arylamine in which an amino functional group is substituted for one of the benzene hydrogens .
a chlorocarbon that is tetrachloro substituted ethene .
a morphinane alkaloid that is a highly potent opiate analgesic psychoactive drug .
a glycosylglucose consisting of two d - glucopyranose units connected by an alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linkage .
a retinol in which all four exocyclic double bonds have e -   ( trans -  )  geometry .
a purine ribonucleoside 5' - monophosphate having guanine as the nucleobase .
an androstanoid having 17beta - hydroxy and 3 - oxo groups ,  together with unsaturation at c - 4 - c - 5 . .
an octadecadienoic acid in which the two double bonds are at positions 9 and 12 and have z  ( cis )  stereochemistry .
a 16 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group at position 16 has a beta - configuration .
the parent of the class of 2 - acetamidofluorenes ,  being an ortho - fused polycyclic arene that consists of 9h - fluorene bearing an acetamido substituent at position 2 .
a sulfur oxoanion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen sulfite  ( h2so3 )  .
the simplest member of the quinoline class of compounds ,  comprising a benzene ring ortho fused to c - 2 and c - 3 of a pyridine ring .
the d - enantiomer of aspartic acid .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid in which the carbon at position 2 has  ( s )  - configuration .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid containing five carbon atoms .
a monoterpenoid consisting of two prenyl units linked head - to - tail and functionalised with a hydroxy group at its tail end .
a compound rc ( =o ) h ,  in which a carbonyl group is bonded to one hydrogen atom and to one r group .
a 3' , 5' - cyclic purine nucleotide having having adenine as the nucleobase .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid where the methyl group has been hydroxylated .
a molecular entity that can undergo oxidation by the loss of hydrogen atom ( s )  .
a pseudohalide anion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen cyanide .
a carbohydrate that is an acyclic polyol having the general formula hoch2 [ ch ( oh )  ] nch2oh  ( formally derivable from an aldose by reduction of the carbonyl group )  .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
an optically active form of cysteine having l - configuration .
a phthalate that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of phthalic acid .
a common and naturally occurring pyrimidine nucleobase in which the pyrimidine ring is substituted with two oxo groups at positions 2 and 4 .
the simplest member of the class toluenes consisting of a benzene core which bears a single methyl substituent .
a cyclic carotene obtained by dimerisation of all - trans - retinol .
a straight chain alkane composed of 8 carbon atoms .
a 2' - deoxycytidine having geminal fluoro substituents in the 2' - position .
a glucooligosaccharide derived from glucose monomers linked via alpha - d - 1 , 4 bonds as in maltose .
a benzenediol comprising benzene core carrying two hydroxy substituents para to each other .
an amino phenol  ( one of the three possible isomers )  which has the single amino substituent located para to the phenolic  - oh group .
any d - aldose having a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
a ferulic acid consisting of trans - cinnamic acid bearing methoxy and hydroxy substituents at positions 3 and 4 respectively on the phenyl ring .
a nitrogen oxoanion formed by loss of a proton from nitric acid .
a glucose with d - configuration .
a  chlorophenol that is phenol substituted by 5 chloro groups .
a 17alpha - hydroxy - c21 - steroid that is pregn - 4 - ene substituted by oxo groups at positions 3 and 20 and hydroxy groups at positions 11 ,  17 and 21 .
a substance to which an electron may be transferred .
a macrolide antibiotic that is tylonolide having mono -  and diglycosyl moieties attached to two of its hydroxy groups .
a 3 -  ( 1 - methylpyrrolidin - 2 - yl ) pyridine in which the chiral centre has s - configuration .
an organochlorine compound that is dichloro - substituted acetamide containing a nitrobenzene ring ,  an amide bond and two alcohol functions .
a  glycosylglucose disaccharide ,  found most notably in milk ,  that consists of d - galactose and d - glucose fragments bonded through a beta - 1 -  > 4 glycosidic linkage .
a member of the class of formamides that is formamide in which the amino hydrogens are replaced by methyl groups .
a phthalate ester that is the bis ( 2 - ethylhexyl )  ester of benzene - 1 , 2 - dicarboxylic acid .
a triol with a structure of propane substituted at positions 1 ,  2 and 3 by hydroxy groups .
a compound showing blue fluorescence ,  formed by a photolysis of riboflavin in acid or neutral solution .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
a compound containing at least one carbon - halogen bond  ( where x is a halogen atom )  .
a secondary alcohol that is propane in which one of the hydrogens attached to the central carbon is substituted by a hydroxy group .
an aminobiphenyl that is biphenyl substituted by an amino group at position 4 .
a cresol that consists of toluene substituted by a hydroxy group at position 4 .
a cyclic ketone that consists of cyclohexane bearing a single oxo substituent .
any glyceride resulting from the condensation of all three hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of 4 - methyl - 2 - oxopentanoic acid .
the conjugate base of 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid ,  comprising a 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid core with a proton missing to give a charge of  - 1 .
a mononuclear parent hydride consisting of covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a molecular entity that can transfer  (  \ "donate \ " )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid having  ( 2r )  - configuration .
an optically active form of tyrosine having l - configuration .
a retinal in which all four exocyclic double bonds have e -   ( trans -  )  geometry .
an epoxide that is oxirane in which one of the hydrogens has been replaced by a phenyl group .
a tetrahydropyridine that is 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 - tetrahydropyridine substituted by a methyl group at position 1 and a phenyl group at position 4 .
a carbamate ester obtained by the formal condensation of ethanol with carbamic acid .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of butyric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a glycosyl glycoside formed by glucose and fructose units joined by an acetal oxygen bridge from hemiacetal of glucose to the hemiketal of the fructose .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
an elemental molecule consisting of two trivalently - bonded nitrogen atoms .
an l - alpha - amino acid ;  the l - isomer of lysine .
a pseudohalide anion obtained by deprotonation of the thiol group of thiocyanic acid .
an azacycloalkane that is cyclohexane in which one of the carbons is replaced by a nitrogen .
an optically active form of glutamine having l - configuration .
a non - proteinogenic alpha - amino acid consisting of cyclopropane having amino and carboxy substituents both at the 1 - position .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
a member of the class of phylloquinones that consists of 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone having methyl and phytyl groups at positions 2 and 3 respectively .
any polysaccharide containing a substantial proportion of aminomonosaccharide residues .
an alcohol that consists of cyclohexane bearing a single hydroxy substituent .
any six - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldohexose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketohexose )  .
a  benzenediol comprising of a benzene core carrying two hydroxy substituents ortho to each other .
a tertiary amine that is ammonia in which each hydrogen atom is substituted by an methyl group .
an alpha - tocopherol that has r , r , r configuration .
a biomacromolecule consisting of large numbers of monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
a haloacetate ( 1 -  )  resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of fluoroacetic acid .
an alpha - amino acid that is phenylalanine bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 4 on the phenyl ring .
an alpha - amino acid that is glutaric acid bearing a single amino substituent at position 2 .
catechol in which the hydrogen at position 4 is substituted by a 2 - aminoethyl group .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
any nucleoside where the sugar component is d - ribose .
a medium - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of dodecanoic acid  ( lauric acid )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an elemental molecule consisting of two hydrogens joined by a single bond .
that part of dna or rna that may be involved in pairing .
an oxo monocarboxylic acid that is  ( 3 - oxocyclopentyl ) acetic acid substituted by a  ( 2z )  - pent - 2 - en - 1 - yl group at position 2 of the cyclopentane ring .
a member of the class of imidazoles that is 1h - imidazole substituted at position c - 4 by a 2 - aminoethyl group .
a butenedioic acid in which the double bond has cis -   ( z )  - configuration .
a alpha , beta - unsaturated monocarboxylic acid that is ethene substituted by a carboxy group .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  and therefore consisting entirely of hydrogen atoms and saturated carbon atoms .
the threo - diastereomer of 1 , 4 - dimercaptobutane - 2 , 3 - diol .
the l - enantiomer of thyroxine .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of hydrogenphosphate .
a ribosyl or deoxyribosyl derivative of a pyrimidine or purine base in which c - 3 and c - 5 of the ribose ring are engaged in formation of a cyclic mono -  ,  di -  ,  tri -  or tetra - phosphate .
a compound having the structure rc#n ;  thus a c - substituted derivative of hydrocyanic acid ,  hc#n .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylacetic acid .
a one - carbon compound consisting of a methine group triple bonded to a nitrogen atom
a 1 , 3 - dichloropropene with a  ( e )  - configuration .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - nicotine .
a member of the class of  hydrazines that is  hydrazine substituted by two methyl groups at position 1 .
a chloropropene with two chloro substituents at positions 1 and 3 respectively . .
a lactone having a six - membered lactone ring .
a molecule whose structure comprises two phenyl rings linked by a n=n double bond ;  the parent compound of the azobenzene class of compounds .
any  oxo steroid carrying the oxo group at position 17 .
a chlorophenoxyacetate anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of  ( 2 , 4 , 5 - trichlorophenoxy ) acetic acid .
a chlorophenoxyacetate anion that is the conjugate base of   ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy ) acetic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a dibromophenol that is phenol in which both of the hydrogens that are ortho to the phenolic hydroxy group have been replaced by bromines .
an ortho - fused polycyclic arene ,  or derivative thereof ,  that consists of 9h - fluorene bearing an acetamido substituent at position 2 .
an anilide that consists of 2 - chloroacetanilide bearing an n - isopropyl substituent .
any 3 - oxo steroid that contains a double bond between positions 1 and 2 .
an aminobenzenesulfonate that is the conjugate base of 4 - aminobenzenesulfonic acid .
a chloroaniline in which the chloro atom is para to the aniline amino group .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of 3 - phosphoshikimate 1 - carboxyvinyltransferase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .19 )  .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the 5 - methyl - 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid or l - glutamate units .
any aminopurine having the amino substituent at the 2 - position .
any compound having 6 - aminopurine  ( adenine )  as part of its structure .
a furan bearing a hydroxymethyl substituent at the 2 - position .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a carbon atom ,  thus creating a c - c bond .
any n - acetylhexosamine in which the hexosamine has d - configuration .
any n - acylamino acid having l - configuration .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a nitrogen atom ,  thus creating a c - n bond .
an n - nitroguanidine compound having nitroso and methyl substituents at the n' - position
an organosulfur compound having the structure r2s=o or r2c=s=o  ( r = / = h )  .
a member of the class of abscisic acids in which the double bond betweeen positions 2 and 3 has cis -   ( natural )  geometry .
a substance used to destroy pests of the subclass acari  ( mites and ticks )  .
compounds with the general formula rnhc ( =o ) ch3 .
an ec 2 .2 .1 .*  ( transketolase / transaldolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of acetolactate synthase  ( ec 2 .2 .1 .6 )  .
a class or aromatic ketone consisting of acetophenone ,  phc ( =o ) ch3 ,  and its substituted derivatives .
an enamide which is acrylamide or a derivative of acrylamide obtained by replacement of one or more of its hydrogens .
an organic group formed by removing one or more hydroxy groups from an oxoacid that has the general structure rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  .
any of a group of related and highly toxic secondary metabolites  ( mycotoxins )  whose main structural feature is a fused coumarin - bis ( dihydrofuran )  ring system and which are produced by strains of the moulds aspergillus flavus or a . parasiticus ,  together with further metabolites of these mycotoxins
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of alanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of alanine by a heteroatom .
oximes of aldehydes rch=noh .
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
a univalent group  - cnh2n + 1 derived from an alkane by removal of a hydrogen atom from any carbon atom .
any amine formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by alkyl groups .
highly reactive chemical that introduces alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevents their proper functioning .
acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbons having a carbon - carbon triple bond and the general formula cnh2n - 2 ,  rc#cr .
a hydroxynitrile in which the hydroxy group is located on the carbon alpha to the carbonitrile group .
a tocopherol that is chroman - 6 - ol substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 ,  5 ,  7 and 8 and a 4 , 8 , 12 - trimethyltridecyl group at position 2 .
a methylthio - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is 2 -  ( methylsulfanyl )  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine substituted by an ethylamino and an isopropylamino group at positions 4 and 6 respectively .
an amide of an amino acid formed formally by conversion of the carboxy group to a carboxamido group .
an alcohol containing an amino functional group in addition to the alcohol - defining hydroxy group .
any aldehyde which contains an amino group .
any member of the class of biphenyls in which the biphenyl skeleton is substituted by at least one amino group .
any member of the class of  imidazoles carrying at least one amino substituent .
any purine having at least one amino substituent .
any member of the class of  toluenes carrying one or more amino groups .
any  aromatic amine that is benzene carrying at least one amino substituent and its substituted derivatives .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a substance that prevents pests from feeding .
a substance that opposes oxidation or inhibits reactions brought about by dioxygen or peroxides .
a substance that destroys or inhibits replication of viruses .
an arsenic oxoanion resulting from the removal of one or more protons from arsenous acid .
arsane  ( ash3 )  and compounds derived from it by substituting one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups: rash2 ,  r2ash ,  r3as  ( r = / = h )  are called primary ,  secondary and tertiary arsines ,  respectively .
any organoarsenic compound that is the as - organyl derivative of arsonic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid amide in which the amide linkage is bonded directly to an arene ring system .
a ketoaldonate that is the conjugate base of ascorbic acid .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - aspartic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( asparagine ,  lysine ,  methionine ,  threonine and isoleucine )  .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of succinic acid bearing a single alpha - amino substituent
any of a group of compounds ,  both naturally occurring and synthetic ,  that induce cell elongation in plant stems  ( from greek alphaupsilonxialphanuomega ,   \ "to grow \ " )  .
any member of the wide class of molecules that share the core azobenzene structure ,  comprising two phenyl rings linked by a n=n double bond ,  which may have different functional groups extending from the rings .
members of the class of pyrimidones consisting of pyrimidine - 2 , 4 , 6 ( 1h , 3h , 5h )  - trione  ( barbituric acid )  and its derivatives .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
a triol in which three hydroxy groups are substituted onto a benzene ring .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
an organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring fused to an imidazole ring .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any benzoic acid .
a group of heterocyclic compounds with a core structure containing a benzene ring fused to a diazepine ring .
any aromatic carboxylic acid that consists of benzene in which at least a single hydrogen has been substituted by a carboxy group .
any aromatic ketone in which the carbonyl group is bonded to 2 phenyl groups .
any quinone resulting from the formal oxidation of catechol ,  hydroquinone ,  or their c - substituted derivatives .
any d - glucoside in which the anomeric centre has beta - configuration .
benzenoid aromatic compounds containing two phenyl or substituted - phenyl groups which are joined together by a single bond .
by usage ,  the methylenediphenols ,  hoc6h4ch2c6h4oh ,  commonly p , p - methylenediphenol ,  and their substitution products  ( generally derived from condensation of two equivalent amounts of a phenol with an aldehyde or ketone )  .
a glycopeptide produced by the bacterium streptomyces verticillus .
an insecticide compound naturally occurring in plants .
any  amino acid  in which the parent hydrocarbon chain has one or more alkyl substituents
any salt that has chlorate ,   [ bro3 ]  (  -  )  ,  as the anionic component .
a compound derived from a hydrocarbon by replacing a hydrogen atom with a bromine atom .
any haloalkane that consists of an alkane substituted by at least one bromine atom .
a bisphenol substituted by at least one bromo group and its derivatives .
an aldehyde based on a butanal skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a diol that is a butanediol or a derivative of a butanediol .
any  ketone that is butane substituted by an oxo group at unspecified position .
any c4 ,  straight - chain fatty acid containing one double bond .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a seven - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
any ester of carbamic acid or its n - substituted derivatives .
the univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of  - oh from the carboxy group of carbamic acid .
any carbohydrate derivative that exhibits antibiotic activity .
organooxygen compounds that are salts or esters of carbonic acid ,  h2co3 .
an ec 4 .2 .1 .*  ( hydro - lyases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of carbonic anhydrase  ( ec 4 .2 .1 .1 )  .
hydrocarbon carotenoids .
one of a class of tetraterpenoids  ( c40 )  ,  formally derived from the acyclic parent ,  psi , psi - carotene by hydrogenation ,  dehydrogenation ,  cyclization ,  oxidation ,  or combination of these processes .
members of the class of hydroxyflavan that have a flavan - 3 - ol skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a class of beta - lactam antibiotics differing from the penicillins in having a 6 - membered ,  rather than a 5 - membered ,  side ring .
a substance intended to sterilize any organism .
a compound derived from a hydrocarbon by replacing at least one hydrogen atom with a chlorine atom .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
a haloacetate ( 1 -  )  resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of chloroacetic acid .
any haloalkane that consists of an alkane substituted by at least one chloro group .
any  substituted aniline carrying at least one chloro group .
any organochlorine compound containing a benzene ring which is substituted by one or more chlorines .
a member of the class of benzophenones that is any substituted benzophenone in which at least one of the substituents is a chlorine .
an organochlorine compound that is ethanol substituted by at least one chloro group .
a chloroalkene that is ethene in which one or more of the hydrogens has been replaced by chlorine .
a halomethane that is methane in which one or more hydrogens has been replaced by chlorine .
a halophenol that is any phenol containing one or more covalently bonded chlorine atoms .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any chlorophenoxyacetic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid that is phenoxyacetic acid in which at least one of the phenyl hydrogens is replaced by chlorine .
any  chlorohydrocarbon that is phenylethane substituted by at least one chloro group at unspecified position .
a chlorohydrocarbon that is consists of ethylene in which one or more hydrogens are replaced by chlorophenyl groups .
a chlorohydrocarbon that is phenylmethane substituted by a chloro group at unspecified position .
any chloroalkene that is propene substituted by at least one chloro group at unspecified position .
a quaternary ammonium ion based on the choline ion and its substituted derivatives thereof .
any member of the class of chromanes that is chromane substituted by one or more hydroxy groups .
the part  ( atom or group of atoms )  of a molecular entity in which the electronic transition responsible for a given spectral band is approximately localized .
any alpha , beta - unsaturated monocarboxylic acid based on the cinnamic acid skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a low - molecular - weight ,  non - protein organic compound participating in enzymatic reactions as dissociable acceptor or donor of chemical groups or electrons .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
azobenzene substituted at one of the 4 - positions by an amino group .
salts and c - organyl derivatives of hydrogen cyanide ,  hc#n .
an alpha - hydroxynitrile resulting from the formal addition of hydrogen cyanide to the c=o bond of an aldehyde or ketone .
a cyclic terpene ketone in which the terpene specified is monoterpene .
a polyol consisting of a cycloalkane containing at least three hydroxy groups ,  each attached to a different ring carbon atom .
saturated monocyclic hydrocarbons  ( with or without side chains )  .
a sub - category of organochlorine insecticides ,  the members of which are all derived from hexachlorocyclopentadiene .
an alcohol in which one or more hydroxy groups are attached to a cyclohexane skeleton .
any alicyclic ketone based on a cyclohexane skeleton and its substituted derivatives thereof .
a cycloalkane that consists of five carbons each bonded with two hydrogens above and below the plane .
cyclopentane and its derivatives formed by substitution .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of cysteine by a heteroatom .
an organic heterotricyclic compound ,  that is a mycotoxin which is cell permeable an an inhibitor of cytoplasmic division by blocking the formation of contractile microfilaments .
a phytohormone that promote cell division ,  or cytokinesis ,  in plant roots and shoots .
a herbicide which when sprayed or dusted on plants causes its leaves to fall off .
any c6 deoxy sugar having at least one hydroxy group replaced by hydrogen .
any sugar having a hydroxy group replaced with a hydrogen atom .
any polyamine that contains two amino groups .
an azole that is either one of a pair of heterocyclic organic compounds comprising three carbon atoms and two nitrogen atoms arranged in a ring .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes carrying two chloro groups at unspecified positions .
any chlorophenol carrying chloro substituents .
any member of the class of  hydroxybenzoic acids carrying  two phenolic hydroxy groups on the benzene ring and its derivatives .
a methylaniline carrying at least two methyl groups .
any  nitrotoluene carrying two nitro substituents .
a compound that contains two hydroxy groups ,  generally assumed to be ,  but not necessarily ,  alcoholic .
oxanthrene  ( formerly dibenzo [ b , e ]  [ 1 , 4 ] dioxine )  and its derivatives .
any terpenoid derived from a diterpene .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a class of steroids that include insect moulting and sex hormones .
any member of the group of signalling molecules arising from oxidation of the three c20 essential fatty acids  ( efas )  icosapentaenoic acid  ( epa )  ,  arachidonic acid  ( aa )  and dihomo - gamma - linolenic acid  ( dgla )  .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
a monocarboxylic acid amide that is n - phenylacetamide carrying an ethyl and a methyl group at positions 2 and 6 respectively on the benzene ring while one of the methyl hydrogens as well as the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen atom have been replaced by a chloro and an ethoxymethyl group respectively .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid that is estra - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 )  - triene substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 and 17 .
any diol that is ethane or substituted ethane carrying two hydroxy groups .
any primary alcohol based on an ethanol skeleton .
any carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid with ethanol .
a member of the class of n - nitrosoureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by ethyl and nitroso groups .
an aliphatic sulfide in which the sulfur atom is bonded to at least one ethyl group .
vitamins like a ,  d ,  e and k that dissolve in fats and are stored in body tissues .
a member of the class of flavonoid with a 2 - aryl - 1 - benzopyran - 4 - one  ( 2 - arylchromen - 4 - one )  skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
an ortho - fused polycyclic arene in which the skeleton is composed of two benzene rings ortho - fused to cyclopentane .
a haloalkane that is an alkane in which at least one hydrogen atom has been replaced by a fluorine atom .
amides with the general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) ncho  ( r ( 1 )  and r ( 2 )  can be h )  .
a substance used to destroy fungal pests .
compounds containing at least one furan ring .
glucocorticoids are a class of steroid hormones that regulate a variety of physiological processes ,  in particular control of the concentration of glucose in blood .
an oligosaccharide comprised of glucose residues .
any  hexosamine that is glucose in which at least one of the hydroxy groups has been replaced by an amino group .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - glutamic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( glutamine ,  proline and arginine )  .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glutamate -  - ammonia ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .2 )  .
any ether having glyceryl as at least one of the o - substituents .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of glycine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of glycine by a heteroatom .
any carbohydrate derivative that consists of glycan moieties covalently attached to the side chains of the amino acid residues that constitute the peptide .
a glycosyl compound resulting from the attachment of a glycosyl group to a non - acyl group ro -  ,  rs -  ,  rse -  ,  etc .
any disaccharide in which the two monosaccharide components are connected by a glycosidic linkage between their anomeric centres .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
any organonitrogen compound containing a carbamimidamido  ( guanidino )  group .
an organohalogen compound that is an alkane in which at least one hydrogen atom has been replaced by with a halogen atom .
any non - proteinogenic amino acid carrying at least one halo group .
a compound derived from a hydrocarbon by replacing a hydrogen atom with a halogen atom .
a substance used to destroy plant pests .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
a heterodetic cyclic peptide is a peptide consisting only of amino - acid residues ,  but in which the linkages forming the ring are not solely peptide bonds ;  one or more is an isopeptide ,  disulfide ,  ester ,  or other bond .
a c16 straight - chain monounsaturated fatty acid having one c=c double bond .
an n - nitro compound that is 1 , 3 , 5 - triazinane in which all three of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogens have been replaced by nitro groups .
a c6 ,  medium - chain fatty acid carrying a double bond at any position along the main chain .
any 6 - carbon amino monosaccharide with at least one alcoholic hydroxy group replaced by an amino group .
originally referring to an endogenous compound that is formed in specialized organ or group of cells and carried to another organ or group of cells ,  in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory function ,  the term is now commonly used to include non - endogenous ,  semi - synthetic and fully synthetic analogues of such compounds .
an imidazolidinone with oxo groups at position 2 and 4 .
hydrazine  ( diazane )  and its substituted derivatives .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
mono - hydroperoxy  ( e ) icosatetraenoic acids  ( hpetes )  are the primary products of lipoxygenase - catalysed oxygenation of arachidonic acid .
benzenediols that have the hydroxy substituents in the 1 -  and 4 - positions .
an oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from the hydroxy group of any hydroxamic acid .
a compound ,  rke ( =o ) lnhoh ,  derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh )   ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing  - oh with  - nhoh ,  and derivatives thereof .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
any fatty acid carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a non - proteinogenic alpha - amino acid bearing one or more hydroxy groups at unspecified positions .
any member of the class of 5beta - cholanic acids carrying at least one hydroxy group at unspecified position .
any carboxylic acid with at least one hydroxy group .
any benzoate derivative carrying a single carboxylate group and at least one hydroxy substituent .
any benzoic acid carrying one or more phenolic hydroxy groups on the benzene ring .
any benzophenone into which is substituted one or more hydroxy groups .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a carbon bearing one hydrogen and one organyl group .
any member of the class of biphenyls that has one or more hydroxy groups attached to the benzenoid ring system .
any member of the class of  cinnamic acids carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a member of the class of flavanones that consists of flavanone with one or more hydroxy substituents .
any flavone in which one or more ring hydrogens are replaced by hydroxy groups .
hydroxylamine ,  h2n - oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
any member of the class of  naphthalenes that is naphthalene carrying one or more hydroxy groups .
any nitrile compound which also contains a hydroxy group .
any member of the class of  toluenes carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a chlorine oxoacid with formula hocl ;  a weak ,  unstable acid ,  it is the active form of chlorine in water .
a five - membered organic heterocycle containing two nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 ,  or any of its derivatives ;  compounds containing an imidazole skeleton .
compounds having the structure rn=cr2  ( r = h ,  hydrocarbyl )  .
an  indol - 3 - yl carboxylic acid in which the carboxylic acid specified is acetic acid .
any indolyl carboxylic acid carrying an indol - 3 - yl or substituted indol - 3 - yl group .
an indolyl alcohol carrying a hydroxymethyl group at position 3 .
any compound containing an indole skeleton .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
compounds of structure roor' in which r and r' are inorganic groups .
any  phosphate that contains no carbon atom .
any cyclohexane - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - hexol .
a chemical that attracts insects .
a growth regulator that inhibits the life cycle of an insect .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill members of the class insecta .
a role played by a chemical agent which exhibits the capability of occupying space between dna base pairs due to particular properties in size ,  shape and charge .
chemical element with atomic number 53 .
an amino acid containing at least one iodo substituent .
an  iodoamino acid in which the amino acid specified is  thyronine .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a compound which can carry specific ions through membranes of cells or organelles .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any  ionophore capable of transportation of iron ions across membranes .
any lipid formally derived from isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  ,  the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule .
any alkaloid that has a structure based on an isoquinoline nucleus .
the jasmonates  ( jas )  are a group of plant hormones which help regulate plant growth and development .
any compound that has an aldehydic and ketonic group in the same molecule .
oxo carboxylic acids formally derived from aldonic acids by replacement of a secondary choh group by a carbonyl group .
any hexose containing a single ketone group .
ketonic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy ketones h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o )  [ ch ( oh )  ] mh )  and their intramolecular hemiketals .
cyclic amides of amino carboxylic acids ,  having a 1 - azacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or analogues having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of lactic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
any cyclic carboxylic ester containing a 1 - oxacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or an analogue having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isobutyl group .
any phenylpropanoid  derived from phenylalanine via dimerization of substituted cinnamic alcohols ,  known as monolignols ,  to a dibenzylbutane skeleton .
a diamino acid that is caproic  ( hexanoic )  acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 6 .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members which exhibits antibiotic activity .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members derived from a polyketide .
any prenylnaphthoquinone having a prenyl or polyprenyl group at position 3 and a methyl group at position 2 on the naphthoquinone ring .
a glycol that is butane - 2 , 3 - diol in which a hydrogen from each of the methyl groups is replaced by a thiol group .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxylic acid group of methacrylic acid .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated monocarboxylic acid that is acrylic acid in which the hydrogen at position 2 is substituted by a methyl group .
a  diol that is methane in which two of the hydrogens have been replaced by hydroxy groups respectively .
an organosulfonic ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with the hydroxy group of an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol .
a 1 , 1 - diunsubstituted alkanesulfonate that is the conjugate base of methanesulfonic acid .
compounds containing a benzene skeleton substituted with one methoxy group .
any benzoic acid carrying one or more methoxy substituents .
any carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxy group with methanol .
a haloalkane that is methane in which one of the hydrogens is substituted by a halide atom .
a methanesulfonate ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with methanol .
a substituted aniline carrying one or more methyl groups at unspecified positions .
an  alkylmercury compound in which the  alkyl group specified is methyl .
an aromatic amide that is n -  ( 2 , 6 - diethylphenyl ) acetamide substituted by a methoxymethyl group at at the nitrogen atom while one of the hydrogens of the methyl group has been replaced by a chlorine atom .
any member of the class of pyridines that carries at least one methyl substituent .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the n - methylated 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid or l - glutamate units .
mineralocorticoids are a class of steroid hormones that regulate water and electrolyte metabolism .
a molecule all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
a group of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by ethylene group   (  - ch2 - ch2 -  )  .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
a hydroxybenzoate carrying a single hydroxy substituent at unspecified position .
any hydroxybenzoic acid having a single phenolic hydroxy substituent on the benzene ring .
any hydroxynaphthalene derivative that has a single hydroxy substituent .
a hydroxytoluene that consists of toluene carrying a single hydroxy substituent at any position .
a terpene ketone derived from a monoterpene .
any terpenoid derived from a monoterpene .
any fatty acid with one double or triple bond in the fatty acid chain and singly bonded carbon atoms in the rest of the chain .
an  isoquinoline alkaloid based on a morphinan skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
an ethyl sulfide that is diethyl sulfide in which a hydrogen from each of the terminal methyl groups is replaced by a chlorine .
an agent that increases the frequency of mutations above the normal background level ,  usually by interacting directly with dna and causing it damage ,  including base substitution .
poisonous substance produced by fungi .
a tetraphene having methyl substituents at the 7 -  and 12 - positions .
any benzenoid aromatic compound having a skeleton composed of two ortho - fused benzene rings .
a polycyclic aromatic ketone metabolite of naphthalene .
a member of the class of phenylethanolamines that is 4 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 - hydroxyethyl )  - 2 -  ( hydroxymethyl ) phenol having a tert - butyl group attached to the nirogen atom .
a substance used to destroy pests of the phylum nematoda  ( roundworms )  .
a glycoside containing alpha - l - rhamnopyranosyl -  ( 1 -  > 2 )  - beta - d - glucopyranosyl residue as the sugar unit .
an endogenous compound that is used to transmit information across the synapse between a neuron and another cell .
a member of the class of pyridines that is a substituted pyridine in which at least one of the substituents is a carboxamide or n - substituted caraboxamide group .
a class of neuro - active insecticides that act at the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor .
amines substituted at n with a nitro group  ( a contracted form of n - nitroamines )  ;  they are thus amides of nitric acid ,  and the class is composed of nitramide ,  o2nnh2 ,  and its derivatives formed by substitution .
a tricarboxylic acid trianion resulting from the deprotonation of all three hydroxy groups of nitrilotriacetic acid .
the oxime carbamate resulting from the addition of 2 - methyl - 2 -  ( methylsulfanyl ) propanaldoxime to methyl isocyanate .
a substituted aniline that carries one or more nitro groups .
a nitrate ester that is glycerol in which nitro group ( s )  replace the hydrogen ( s )  attached to one or more of the hydroxy groups .
any member of the class of  phenols or substituted phenols carrying  at least 1 nitro group .
any member of the class of  toluenes bearing one or more nitro substituents on the benzene ring .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity that is a nucleoside in which one or more of the sugar hydroxy groups has been converted into a mono -  or poly - phosphate .
a long - chain ,  unsaturated fatty acid anion formed by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any octadecadienoic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any straight - chain ,  c18 polyunsaturated fatty acid having two c=c double bonds .
any member of the group of c18 monounsaturated fatty acids with the double bond located at any position in the chain .
a primary alcohol that is octanol consisting of two double bonds at unspecified positions .
an organochlorine compound resulting from the diels - alder reaction of hexachlorocyclopentadiene with norbornadiene .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of octanoic acid  ( caprylic acid )  ;  believed to block adipogenesis .
a 1 , 1 - bis ( phosphonic acid )  that is methanebis ( phosphonic acid )  in which the two methylene hydrogens are replaced by hydroxy and 3 - aminopropyl groups .
a peptide containing a relatively small number of amino acids .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an organooxygen compound with formula ror ,  where r is not hydrogen .
an oxide in which the oxygen atom is bonded to a carbon atom .
compounds of the general formula so3hor where r is an organyl group
any organochlorine pesticide that has been used as an insecticide .
a compound containing at least one carbon - mercury bond .
a compound having bonds between one or more metal atoms and one or more carbon atoms of an organyl group .
an  alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
an organophosphorus compound is formally a compound containing at least one carbon - phosphorus bond ,  but the term is often extended to include esters and thioesters .
an organosilicon compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - silicon bond .
an organothiophosphorus compound is an organophosphorus compound which contains a phosphorus - sulfur bond .
a solute used by a cell under water stress to maintain cell volume .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
compounds of structure r2c=noh derived from condensation of aldehydes or ketones with hydroxylamine .
any compound that has an aldehydic or ketonic group as well as a carboxylic acid group in the same molecule .
any fatty acid anion containing at least one c - c unsaturated bond ;  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
an elemental molecule with formula o3 .
a quinone in which the two oxo groups of the quinone are located para to each other on the 6 - membered quinonoid ring .
a fatty acid ester obtained by condensation of the carboxy group of palmitic acid with a hydroxy group of an alcohol or phenol .
a hydroxyflavone substituted by five hydroxy groups .
any ketone that is pentane substituted by an oxo group at unspecified position .
a five - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldopentose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketopentose )  .
any peptide with hormonal activity in animals ,  whether endocrine ,  neuroendocrine ,  or paracrine .
compounds of structure roor' .
a substance that increases the efficacy of a pesticide .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
any benzenoid aromatic compound that consists of a phenanthrene skeleton and its substituted derivatives thereof .
any monocarboxylic acid that is phenylacetic acid or its substituted derivatives .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of alanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of phenylalanine  by a heteroatom .
an ethanolamine compound having a phenyl  ( substituted or unsubstituted )  group on the carbon bearing the hydroxy substituent .
any member of the class of  hydrazines carrying a phenyl substituent .
any organic aromatic compound with a structure based on a phenylpropane skeleton .
a semiochemical used in olfactory communication between organisms of the same species eliciting a change in sexual or social behaviour .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
hp ( =o )  ( oh ) 2   ( phosphonic acid )  and its p - substituted derivatives .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom .
a member of the class of benzoic acids in that consists of benzene substituted by two carboxy groups .
a toxin made by a plant that acts against an organism attacking it .
an endogenous molecular entity that results in a colour of an organism as the consequence of the selective absorption of light .
a chemical ,  natural or artificial ,  that can affect the rate of growth of a plant .
any amino acid whose side chain is capable of forming one or more hydrogen bonds .
natural and synthetic compounds containing alternating carbonyl and methylene groups  ( 'beta - polyketones' )  ,  biogenetically derived from repeated condensation of acetyl coenzyme a  ( via malonyl coenzyme a )  ,  and usually the compounds derived from them by further condensations ,  etc .
a compound that contains two or more hydroxy groups .
members of the class of phenols that contain 2 or more benzene rings each of which is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any member of the class of  prenols possessing the general formula h -  [ ch2c ( me ) =chch2 ] noh in which the carbon skeleton is composed of more than one isoprene units .
any fatty acid containing more than one double bond .
any alkali metal salt having potassium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
any alcohol possessing the general formula h -  [ ch2c ( me ) =chch2 ] noh in which the carbon skeleton is composed of one or more isoprene units  ( biogenetic precursors of the isoprenoids )  .
any napthoquinone that is substituted at position 2 by a prenyl or polyprenyl group .
a quinone substituted by a polyprenyl - derived side - chain .
an alpha - amino acid that is pyrrolidine bearing a carboxy substituent at position 2 .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of proline at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of proline by a heteroatom .
a diamino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is n , n' - di ( propan - 2 - yl )  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine substituted by a methylsulfanediyl group at position 6 .
a primary alcohol based on a propan - 1 - olskeleton and its substituted derivatives .
an aldehyde based on a propanal skeleton and its derivatives .
a ketone that is propane carrying at least one oxo substituent .
a member of the class of hydrazones that is used as an insecticide for control of ants and cockroaches .
a nitrile that is acrylonitrile in which the carbon - carbon double bond has been reduced to a single bond .
naturally occurring compounds derived from the parent c20 acid ,  prostanoic acid .
derivatives of oxoacids rne ( =o ) oh in which the hydroxy group is replaced by an amino group and the oxo group is replaced by =nr .
the family of natural prostaglandins and prostaglandin - like compounds including prostacyclins and thromboxanes .
a tightly bound ,  specific nonpolypeptide unit in a protein determining and involved in its biological activity .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from purine .
a member of the class of pyrazines resulting from the formal monoacylation of guanidine with the carboxy group of 3 , 5 - diamino - 6 - chloropyrazine - 2 - carboxylic acid .
any nucleotide that has a purine nucleobase .
a ribonucleoside that has a purine moiety as the nucleobase  ( the r group in the illustration )  .
any ribonucleotide that has a purine nucleobase .
a class of imidazopyrimidines that consists of purine and its substituted derivatives .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is attached to a pyridine  ( or substituted pyridine )  ring .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a pyridine skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from pyrimidine .
an azole that includes only one n atom and no other heteroatom as a part of the aromatic skeleton .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from pyruvate  ( i .e .
a nitrogen molecular entity that is electronically neutral but which contains a quaternary nitrogen .
any aromatic carboxylic acid that contains a quinoline moiety that is substituted by one carboxy substituent .
a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds each of which contains a benzene ring ortho fused to carbons 2 and 3 of a pyridine ring .
a molecular entity possessing an unpaired electron .
molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
a retinoid consisting of 3 , 7 - dimethylnona - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - tetraenoic acid substituted at position 9 by a 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - en - 1 - yl group  ( geometry of the four exocyclic double bonds is not specified )  .
oxygenated derivatives of 3 , 7 - dimethyl - 1 -  ( 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - enyl ) nona - 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 - tetraene and derivatives thereof .
a deoxymannose sugar that is the 6 - deoxy derivative of hexose .
any compound with a 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine skeleton ,  in which nitrogen atoms replace carbon at positions 1 ,  3 and 5 of the core benzene ring structure .
any salt or ester arising from reaction of the carboxy group of salicylic acid ,  or any ester resulting from the condensation of the phenolic hydroxy group of salicylic acid with an organic acid .
any organic polycyclic compound that is the aglycon moiety of a saponin ;  sapogenins may be steroids or triterpenoids .
any fatty acid containing no carbon to carbon multiple bonds .
a molecular messenger released by an organism that affects the behaviour within or between species .
a tertiary amino compound that is 1 , 3 , 5 - triazapenta - 1 , 4 - diene substituted by a methyl group at position 3 and 2 , 4 - dimethylphenyl groups at positions 1 and 5 .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from 3 - phosphoglycerate  ( i .e .
any terpenoid derived from a sesquiterpene .
an organic tricyclic compound that is 10 , 11 - dihydro - 5h - dibenzo [ a , d ]  [ 7 ] annulene substituted by a 3 -  ( dimethylamino ) propylidene group at position 5 .
an aliphatic monocarboxylic acid with a chain length of less than c6 .
any of low - molecular - mass iron ( iii )  - chelating compounds produced by microorganisms for the purpose of the transport and sequestration of iron .
a fully substituted dialkyl 1 , 4 - dihydropyridine - 3 , 5 - dicarboxylate derivative ,  which is used for the treatment of hypertension ,  chronic stable angina and confirmed or suspected vasospastic angina .
a reactive oxygen species that is the lowest excited state of the dioxygen molecule .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
any steroid that acts as hormone .
any olefinic compound characterised by a 1 , 2 - diphenylethylene backbone .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  - amphetamine  ( also known as levamphetamine or levoamphetamine )  and  ( s )  - amphetamine  ( also known as dexamfetamine or dextroamphetamine .
an ester of an alcohol and sulfuric acid .
salts and esters of sulfuric acid
any sulfur molecular entity that involves either covalently bonded or anionic sulfur .
any sulfurous acid derivative that is a salt or an ester of sulfurous acid .
a sulfur oxoacid that consists of two oxo and two hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central sulfur atom .
a synthetic compound exhibiting auxin activity .
any terpenoid which contains a keto group .
any isoprenoid that is a natural product or related compound formally derived from isoprene units .
a tertiary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has three other carbon atoms attached to it .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes carrying four chloro groups at unspecified positions .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid units .
a cyclic ether that is butane in which one hydrogen from each methyl group is substituted by an oxygen .
any oxacycle having an oxolane  ( tetrahydrofuran )  skeleton .
a natural pigment containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
any terpenoid derived from a tetraterpene .
an ester in which one or both oxygens of an ester group have been replaced by divalent sulfur .
compounds containing at least one thiophene ring .
an organic tricyclic compound in which at least one of the rings of the tricyclic skeleton contains one or more heteroatoms .
a collective name for a group of closely related lipids that contain a chroman - 6 - ol nucleus substituted at position 2 by a methyl group and by a saturated hydrocarbon chain consisting of three isoprenoid units .
any member of the class of benzenes that is a substituted benzene in which the substituents include one  ( and only one )  methyl group .
poisonous substance produced by a biological organism such as a microbe ,  animal or plant .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
a disaccharide formed by a  ( 1 <  -  > 1 )  - glycosidic bond between two units of d - glucose .
a member of the class of 1 , 4 - benzoquinones that is 1 , 4 - benzoquinone in which three of the ring hydrogens are replaced by aziridin - 1 - yl groups .
an oxoacid containing three carboxy groups .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes carrying three chloro substituents at unspecified positions .
any one of the six possible isomers of trichlorophenol .
a chemical compound containing three hydroxy groups .
tryptamine and its substitution derivatives .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - tyrosine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - tyrosine by a heteroatom .
a univalent carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
any fatty acid containing at least one c=c or c#c bond .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isopropyl group .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of valine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of valine  by a heteroatom .
a fatty acid which has a chain length greater than c22 .
vitamin d is a group of fat - soluble prohormones ,  which can be obtained from sun exposure ,  food and supplements .
any plant metabolite that is found naturally as a component of a volatile oil .
a neutral compound having formal unit electrical charges of opposite sign on non - adjacent atoms .
an alkanesulfonic acid in which the alkyl group directly linked to the sulfo functionality is methyl .
a chlorocarbon that is methane in which all the hydrogens have been replaced by chloro groups .
an amino cyclitol that is scyllo - inositol in which the hydroxy groups at positions 1 and 3 are replaced by guanidino groups .
a xylene with methyl groups at positions 1 and 4 .
a vinylarene that is benzene carrying a vinyl group .
a chlorophenylethylene that is chloroethene in which the methylene hydrogens are replaced by 4 - chlorophenyl groups .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that results from the removal of a proton from the carboxylic acid group of trichloroacetic acid .
an n - acyl - amino acid that is a form of the water - soluble vitamin b9 .
the d - enantiomer of valine .
a diamino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is n , n' - diethyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine substituted by a chloro group at position 6 .
an  aminobenzenesulfonic acid that is aniline sulfonated at the para - position .
any l - cysteine derivative obtained by conversion of the thiol group into a sulfide .
a  saturated organic heteromonocyclic parent that is a three - membered heterocycle of two carbon atoms and one oxygen atom .
an alpha - amino acid that is propanoic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a 1h - imidazol - 4 - yl group at position 3 .
a phosphoric ester  ( phosphate )  that has an nr2 instead of an oh group .
a pregnane - based steroidal hormone produced by the outer - section  ( zona glomerulosa )  of the adrenal cortex in the adrenal gland ,  and acts on the distal tubules and collecting ducts of the kidney to cause the conservation of sodium ,  secretion of potassium ,  increased water retention ,  and increased blood pressure .
a nine - membered bis - lactone having methyl substituents at the 2 -  and 6 - positions ,  an n - hexyl substituent at the 8 - position ,  an acyloxy substituent at the 7 - position and an aroylamido substituent at the 3 - position .
a methyl ketone that is acetone in which one of the methyl groups has been replaced by a phenyl group .
a cobalt group element atom that has atomic number 27 .
a dicarboximide that is 4 -  ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) piperidine - 2 , 6 - dione in which one of the hydrogens attached to the carbon  bearing the hydroxy group is replaced by a 3 , 5 - dimethyl - 2 - oxocyclohexyl group .
an ether having methyl and tert - butyl as the two alkyl components .
a pyranoindolizinoquinoline that is pyrano [ 3' , 4':6 , 7 ] indolizino [ 1 , 2 - b ] quinoline which is substituted by oxo groups at positions 3 and 14 ,  and by an ethyl group and a hydroxy group at position 4  ( the s enantiomer )  .
any aldehyde having an oxo substituent at the 2 - position .
a fatty acid anion 10:0 that is the conjugate base of decanoic acid .
a trimethylxanthine in which the three methyl groups are located at positions 1 ,  3 ,  and 7 .
a phosphonic acid resulting from the formal oxidative coupling of the methyl group of methylphosphonic acid with the amino group of glycine .
the acetate ester formed between acetic acid and ethanol .
a surfactant  ( or a mixture containing one or more surfactants )  having cleaning properties in dilute solutions .
a member of the class of chloroethanes substituted by two chloro groups at positions 1 and 2 .
a nitroarene consisting of benzene carrying a single nitro substituent .
a morphinane alkaloid that is morphine bearing two acetyl substituents on the o - 3 and o - 6 positions .
a  benzenediol that is benzene dihydroxylated at positions 1 and 3 .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles that is benzimidazole in which the hydrogen at position 2 is replaced by an amino group .
the sodium salt of hydrogen azide  ( hydrazoic acid )  .
a member of the class of acetamides that results from the formal condensation of acetic acid with ammonia .
a nitroaniline that is 4 - nitroaniline in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 6 are replaced by chlorines .
a chlorocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid carrying a 2 - chloro substituent .
acetaldehyde substituted at c - 2 by chlorine .
a naphthylamine carrying the amino group at position 2 .
a stilbenol that is stilbene in which the phenyl groups are substituted at positions 3 ,  5 ,  and 4' by hydroxy groups .
a diamminedichloroplatinum compound in which the two ammine ligands and two chloro ligands are oriented in a cis planar configuration around the central platinum ion .
a broad - spectrum polyketide antibiotic produced by the streptomyces genus of actinobacteria .
a chlorophenoxyacetic acid that is phenoxyacetic acid in which the ring hydrogens at postions 2 ,  4 and 5 are substituted by chlorines .
a trioxane that is 1 , 3 , 5 - trioxane substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 ,  4 and 6 .
a phenylhydrazine that is the monophenyl derivative of hydrazine .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic that contains a beta - lactam ring .
a tropane alkaloid obtained from leaves of the south american shrub erythroxylon coca .
a nitrile that is hydrogen cyanide in which the hydrogen has been replaced by a phenyl group .
an aromatic amino acid that is alanine in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a phenyl group .
a cresol that is phenol substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
a polydisperse highly branched polysaccharide derivative composed of chains of d - glucopyranose residues in alpha ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic linkage .
a xylene substituted by methyl groups at positions 1 and 3 .
a chromium group element atom that has atomic number 24 .
a monochlorophenol substituted at the pare position by a chlorine atom .
7 - hydroxyisoflavone with additional hydroxy groups at positions 5 and 4' .
the simplest member of the class of monochlorobenzenes ,  that is benzene in which a single hydrogen has been substituted by a chlorine .
chemical element  ( nickel group element atom )  with atomic number 28 .
a member of the class of ethanolamines that is ethanolamine having a n - hydroxyethyl substituent .
a chloroaniline that consists of two 2 - chloroaniline units joined by a methylene bridge .
a mancude organic heterotricyclic parent that consists of a furan ring flanked by two benzene rings ortho - fused across the 2 , 3 -  and 4 , 5 - positions .
an aromatic amide that consists of benzene bearing a single carboxamido substituent .
an erythromycin that consists of erythronolide b having 2 , 6 - dideoxy - 3 - c - methyl - 3 - o - methyl - alpha - l - ribo - hexopyranosyl and 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 -  ( dimethylamino )  - beta - d - xylo - hexopyranosyl residues attahced at positions 4 and 6 respectively .
a member of the class of 7 - hydroxyisoflavones that is 7 - hydroxyisoflavone substituted by an additional hydroxy group at position 4' .
a chloroethanol carrying a chloro substituent at position 2 .
a member of the class of rotenones that consists of 1 , 2 , 12 , 12a - tetrahydrochromeno [ 3 , 4 - b ] furo [ 2 , 3 - h ] chromen - 6 ( 6ah )  - one substituted at position 2 by a prop - 1 - en - 2 - yl group and at positions 8 and 9 by methoxy groups  ( the 2r , 6as , 12as - isomer )  .
a nitrile that is hydrogen cyanide in which the hydrogen has been replaced by an ethenyl group .
a trichlorobenzene with chloro substituents at positions 1 ,  2 and 4 .
a 2 - carbon sulfoxide in which the sulfur atom has two methyl substituents .
an ortho - fused tricyclic hydrocarbon that is a major component of fossil fuels and their derivatives
an alpha - amino acid that consists of butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a carbamoyl substituent at position 4 .
a highly sulfated linear glycosaminoglycan comprising complex patterns of uronic acid -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - d - glucosamine repeating subunits .
the d - stereoisomer of galactosamine .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - lactic acid .
a fat - soluble vitamin required for the synthesis of prothrombin and certain other blood coagulation factors .
a dialkyl ketone that is a four - carbon ketone carrying a single keto -  group at position c - 2 .
the beta - isomer of hexachlorocyclohexane .
an optically active form of tyrosine having d - configuration .
a c5 ,  branched - chain saturated fatty acid .
an alkaloid found in the roots of rauwolfia serpentina and r . vomitoria .
a xylene carrying methyl groups at positions 1 and 3 .
a 1 - ribosylimidazolecarboxamide in which the carboxamide group is situated at position 4 of the imidazole ring ,  which is further substituted at position 5 by an amino group .
a monohaloethene that is ethene in which one of the hydrogens has been replaced by a chloro group .
a trichlorophenol carrying chloro groups at positions 2 ,  4 and 5 .
a bromoalkane that is ethane carrying bromo substituents at positions 1 and 2 .
a member of the class of caprolactams that is azepane substituted by an oxo group at position 2 .
a  monomethoxybenzene that consists of phenol with a methoxy substituent at the ortho position .
a farnesane sesquiterpenoid that is dodeca - 2 , 6 , 10 - triene substituted by methyl groups at positions 3 ,  7 and 11 and a hydroxy group at position 1 .
a one - carbon compound that is ammonia in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a carboxy group .
a dichlorobenzene carrying chloro groups at positions 1 and 4 .
a member of the class of acrylamides that results from the formal condensation of acrylic acid with ammonia .
a teichoic acid which is covalently bound to a lipid .
a pyrimidine nucleoside in which cytosine is attached to d - arabinofuranose via a beta - n ( 1 )  - glycosidic bond .
an androstanoid that is androst - 5 - ene substituted by a beta - hydroxy group at position 3 and an oxo group at position 17 .
a hexadec - 9 - enoic acid in which the double bond at position c - 9 has cis configuration .
a primary arylamine that is aniline in which the hydrogens at the 2 -  and 6 - positions are replaced by methyl groups .
a metal fluoride salt with a na (  +  )  counterion .
a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is located at position 2 .
a trichlorophenol with phenolic substituents on positions 2 ,  4 and 6 .
a ketohexose that is an isomer of glucose .
a chlorophenylmethane that is methane in which two of the hydrogens have been replaced by p - chlorophenyl groups .
a dipeptide obtained by formal condensation of the alpha - carboxy group of l - aspartic acid with the amino group of methyl l - phenylalaninate .
a nitroglycerol that is glycerol in which the hydrogen atoms of all three hydroxy groups are replaced by nitro groups .
a primary amino compound that is the 5 - hydroxy derivative of tryptamine .
a toluate that is the conjugate base of m - toluic acid .
polysaccharides composed of fructose residues .
a polymer consisting of cis - linked prenyl units .
any hydroxyflavone in which is the ring hydrogen at position 3 of the heterocyclic ring is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a straight - chain alkane with 12 carbon atoms .
a substituted aniline carrying a hydroxy substituent .
the parent member of the class of propan - 1 - ols that is propane in which a hydrogen of one of the methyl groups is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid that is heptane in which one of the hydrogens of a terminal methyl group has been replaced by a carboxy group .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon composed of three fused benzene rings which takes its name from the two terms 'phenyl' and 'anthracene .'
a chlorophenoxyacetic acid that is phenoxyacetic acid in which the ring hydrogens at postions 2 and 4 are substituted by chlorines .
members of the class of flavans with a 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 - aryl - 2h - 1 - benzopyran - 4 - one skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a c24 straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
the conjugate base of a fatty acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of the corresponding fatty acid .
a member of the class of 1 , 4 - naphthoquinones that is 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone which is substituted at position 2 by a methyl group .
a straight - chain ,  fourteen - carbon ,  long - chain saturated fatty acid mostly found in milk fat .
a member of the class of acetamides that is acetamide in which one of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen is substituted by a phenyl group .
a primary alcohol that is butane in which a hydrogen of one of the methyl groups is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a terminal acetylenic compound that is prop - 2 - yne substituted by a hydroxy group at position 1 .
a vitamin d supplement and has been isolated from alfalfa .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
a nitramine that is methylamine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen is substituted by a nitro group while the other is substituted by a 2 , 4 , 6 - trinitrophenyl group .
any sugar having one or more alcoholic hydroxy groups replaced by substituted or unsubstituted amino groups .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid .
a monoterpenoid indole alkaloid that is strychnidine bearing a keto substituent at the 10 - position .
an alicyclic hydrocarbon comprising a ring of six carbon atoms ;  the cyclic form of hexane ,  used as a raw material in the manufacture of nylon .
a third - generation cephalosporin compound having 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetylamino and  [  ( 2 - methyl - 5 , 6 - dioxo - 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydro - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazin - 3 - yl ) sulfanyl ] methyl side - groups .
an alpha - amino acid that is glycine in which the alpha - is substituted by a 3 - guanidinopropyl group .
a c9 straight - chain saturated fatty acid which occurs naturally as esters of the oil of pelargonium .
an unbranched alkane containing six carbon atoms .
an ion of copper carrying a double positive charge .
an ethanolamine compound having a  ( 4 - carbamoylmethylphenoxy ) methyl group at the 1 - position and an n - isopropyl substituent .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a benzenedicarboxylic acid cosisting of two carboxy groups at ortho positions .
the l - enantiomer of ascorbic acid and conjugate acid of l - ascorbate .
a fructan in which the d - fructose building blocks are connected by beta -  ( 2 -  > 1 )  linkages .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from potassium .
a hydrate that is the trihydrate form of atorvastatin calcium .
a hydracid that is cyanic acid in which the oxygen is replaced by a sulfur atom .
a colourless ,  volatile ,  poisonous inorganic compound with the formula hnco ;  the simplest stable chemical compound that contains carbon ,  hydrogen ,  nitrogen ,  and oxygen ,  the four most commonly - found elements in organic chemistry and biology .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and fluorine atoms .
an arsenite ion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the hydroxy groups of arsenous acid .
an arsenite ion resulting from the removal of a proton from two of the hydroxy groups of arsenous acid .
an organosulfur compound in which a thiol group ,   - sh ,  is attached to a carbon atom of any aliphatic or aromatic moiety .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by deprotonation of phosphorous acid .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of a proton from two of the hydroxy groups of phosphorous acid .
a sulfinyl halide in which both of the halide atoms are chorines .
a dinitrile that is ethane substituted by two cyano groups .
an organic sodium salt that is the disodium salt of nitroprusside .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
a carboxamide derived from a monocarboxylic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid amide derived from a fatty acid .
an acyl chloride obtained by substitution of both hydrogens of formaldehyde by chlorine .
the simplest silane ,  consisting of a single silicon atom carrying four hydrogens .
a member of the class of  benzotriazines that is  1 , 2 , 3 - benzotriazine substituted by an oxo group at position 4 and a  [  ( dimethoxyphosphorothioyl ) sulfanyl ] methyl group at position 3 .
a macrolide antibiotic useful for the treatment of bacterial infections .
a carboxylic ester that is the methyl ester of  ( 2e )  -  ( methoxyimino ) {2 -  [  ( 2 - methylphenoxy ) methyl ] phenyl}acetic acid .
an inoganic sodium salt with formula with formula naaso2 .
a mixture of antiviral nucleoside antibiotics produced by streptomyces lysosuperificus .
a 16 - membererd macrolide that is the aglycone of the antibiotic 5 - o - beta - d - mycaminosyltylactone .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group of ferulic acid .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is acetate where the methyl group has been hydroxylated .
a hexitol produced by a variety of organisms including bacteria ,  fungi ,  lichens and plants .
an ortho -  and peri - fused polycyclic arene consisting of five fused benzene rings .
an arsenite ion resulting from the removal of all three protons from the hydroxy groups of arsenous acid .
an acyclic phosphorus acid anhydride obtained by condensation of two molecules of phosphoric acid .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of d - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that is the conjugate base of glutamate ( 1 -  )  .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of the both the carboxy groups of l - glutamic acid .
an aspartate ( 1 -  )  that is the conjugate base of d - aspartic acid .
an aspartate ( 1 -  )  that is the  conjugate base of l - aspartic acid .
an aspartate ( 2 -  )  that is the conjugate base of  l - aspartate ( 1 -  )  .
an aspartate ( 2 -  )  that is the conjugate base of d - aspartate ( 1 -  )  .
a c4 - dicarboxylate that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of aspartic acid .
bacterial polysaccharide derivatives of glycerol phosphate or ribitol phosphate linked via phosphodiester bonds ,  whose main function is to fortify the cell wall .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of acetic acid .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles that is the methyl ester of   [ 1 -  ( butylcarbamoyl )  - 1h - benzimidazol - 2 - yl ] carbamic acid .
a boron oxide with formula b2o3 .
a  benzothiadiazine that is 1h - 2 , 1 , 3 - benzothiadiazin - 4 ( 3h )  - one 2 , 2 - dioxide substituted by an isopropyl group at position 3 .
an organolead compound consisting of four ethyl groups joined to a central lead atom .
particle of zero charge ,  zero rest mass ,  spin quantum number 1 ,  energy hnu and momentum hnu / c  ( h is the planck constant ,  nu the frequency of radiation and c the speed of light )  ,  carrier of electromagnetic force .
an octadecadienoate with cis -  double bonds at the 9 -  and 12 -  positions ;  the conjugate base of linoleic acid .
a diamino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is n - tert - butyl - n' - methyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine substituted by a chloro group at position 6 .
a methoxy - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is  6 - methoxy - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine in which one of the hydrogens of each amino group has been replaced by an ethyl group .
the simplest phosphine ,  consisting of a single phosphorus atom with three hydrogens attached .
a thia fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of lipoic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a phosphorus halide with formula cl3p .
an alkane - alpha , omega - diamine in which the alkane is ethane .
a bipyridine in which the two pyridine moieties are linked by a bond between positions c - 2 and c - 2' .
an alkane that is butane substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
an alkane that is propane substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
a cobalt - corrinoid hexaamide that is cobalamin with the oxidation state of the central cobalt atom unspecified .
a metallic element first identified and named from the brilliant indigo  ( latin indicum )  blue line in its flame spectrum .
a metallic element first identified and named from the brilliant green line in its flame spectrum  ( from greek thetaalphalambdalambdaomicronsigma ,  a green shoot )  .
an organotin compound that is triphenylstannane in which the hydrogen attached to tin is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a sulfur coordination entity consisting of six fluorine atoms attached to a central sulfur atom .
alkaline earth metal atom with atomic number 4 .
an alpha - amino - acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of 1 - aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid .
a derivative of the dimethylisoalloxazine  ( 7 , 8 - dimethylbenzo [ g ] pteridine - 2 , 4 ( 3h , 10h )  - dione )  skeleton ,  with a substituent on the 10 position .
a silicon oxide made up of linear triatomic molecules in which a silicon atom is covalently bonded to two oxygens .
an gamma - amino acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
the amino acid zwitterion formed from thyroxine by transfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group .
a nucleoside triphosphate ( 4 -  )  obtained by global deprotonation of the triphosphate oh groups of atp ;  major species present at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of oxalic acid .
an alpha - amino acid that is glycine substituted at the alpha - position by a 2 - hydroxyethyl group .
the d - enantiomer of homoserine .
the d - enantiomer of thyroxine .
an iodothyronine compound having iodo substituents at the 3 -  ,  3' -  ,  5 -  and 5' - positions .
a tyrosine derivative where the phenolic hydrogen of tyrosine is substituted by 4 - hydroxyphenyl .
a bis ( eta ( 5 )  - cyclopentadienyl ) metal ( ii )  having fe ( ii )  as the metal ( ii )  species .
a 1 , 2 - glycol compound produced via reaction of ethylene oxide with water .
a monocarboxylic acid that is toluene in which one of the hydrogens of the methyl group has been replaced by a carboxy group .
a compound comprising a benzene ring core carrying a carboxylic acid substituent .
the simplest carboxylic acid ,  containing a single carbon .
a monohydroxybenzoate that is the conjugate base of salicylic acid .
a monohydroxybenzoic acid that is benzoic acid carrying a hydroxy substituent at c - 4 of the benzene ring .
a short - chain saturated fatty acid comprising ethane attached to the carbon of a carboxy group .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid that is butane in which one of the terminal methyl groups has been oxidised to a carboxy group .
a haloacetic acid that is acetic acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by fluorine .
a c6 ,  straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
a c4 - dicarboxylate that is the z - isomer of but - 2 - enedioate ( 2 -  ) 
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid in which the two carboxy groups are separated by a single methylene group .
a phthalate that is the conjugate base of phthalic acid .
a benzenedicarboxylic acid that is benzene substituted by carboxy groups at position 1 and 3 .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of isophthalic acid .
a straight - chain ,  twelve - carbon medium - chain saturated fatty acid with strong bactericidal properties ;  the main fatty acid in coconut oil and palm kernel oil .
a long - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of myristic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a c10 ,  straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
a c18 ,  long straight - chain monounsaturated fatty acid anion ;  and the conjugate base of oleic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
a naphthalenesulfonic acid in which the sulfo groups are attached to positions 2 and 7 of the naphthalene ring .
a racemate comprising of equal amounts of  ( r )  - bicalutamide and  ( s )  - bicalutamide .
a carboxylic ester obtained by formal condensation of cis - 3 -  ( 2 - chloro - 3 , 3 , 3 - trifluoroprop - 1 - enyl )  - 2 , 2 - dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid and  [  ( 2 - methyl - 1 , 1' - biphenyl )  - 3 - yl ] methanol .
a monocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid in which all three methyl hydrogens are substituted by chlorine .
a saturated organic heteromonocyclic parent that is a four - membered ring comprising of three carbon atoms and an oxygen atom .
any member of a group of hydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acids occuring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
a  bipyridine in which the two pyridine moieties are linked by a bond between positions c - 4 and c - 4' .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of valeric acid ;  present in ester form as component of many steroid - based pharmaceuticals .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of tetracosanoic acid  ( lignoceric acid )  ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an inorganic chloride having ammonium as the counterion .
a  pyrazolone derivative that is 1 , 2 - dihydropyrazol - 3 - one substituted with methyl groups at c - 1 and c - 5 and with a phenyl group at n - 2 .
the acetate ester of butanol .
a member of the class of calcium oxides of calcium and oxygen in a 1:1 ratio .
a platinum coordination entity with cis square - planar geometry in which  platinum ( ii )  is coordinated to two ammonia ligands and a bidentate cyclobutane - 1 , 1 - dicarboxylate ligand .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of atenolol .
an ethyl ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid with ethanol , 
any organic amino compound that is a derivative of  ethylenediamine .
a benzenedicarboxamide compound having n - substituted carbamoyl groups at the 1 -  and 3 - positions ,  iodo substituents at the 2 -  ,  4 -  and 6 - positions and a 3 - hydroxy - 2 -  ( hydroxymethyl ) propanimido at position 5 .
a benzenedicarboxamide compound having n -  ( 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropyl ) carbamoyl groups at the 1 -  and 3 - positions ,  iodo substituents at the 2 -  ,  4 -  and 6 - positions and an n -  ( 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropyl ) acetamido group at the 5 - position .
a benzenedicarboxamide compound having n - substituted carbamoyl groups at the 1 -  and 3 - positions ,  iodo substituents at the 2 -  ,  4 -  and 6 - positions and a glycoloyl ( methyl ) amino group at the 5 - position .
a benzenedicarboxamide compound having n - substituted carbamoyl groups at the 1 -  and 3 - positions ,  iodo substituents at the 2 -  ,  4 -  and 6 - positions and a  ( 2s )  - 2 - hydroxypropanamido group at the 5 - position .
the acetate ester of isoamylol .
a racemate consisting of equimolar concentrations of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - bromacil .
a 4 - hydroxybenzoate ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid with methanol .
an organic iodide salt that has pralidoxime as the cation .
the benzoate ester that is the propyl ester of 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid .
a 1 , 2 - benzisothiazole having a keto - group at the 3 - position and two oxo substituents at the 1 - position .
an inorganic sodium salt in which hypochlorite is the counterion .
a disaccharide derivative consisting of 4 - chloro - 4 - deoxy - alpha - d - galactopyranose and 1 , 6 - dichloro - 1 , 6 - dideoxy - beta - d - fructofuranose units linked by a glycosidic bond .
a sulfonamide consisting of pyrimidine having methoxy substituents at the 2 -  and 6 - positions and a 4 - aminobenzenesulfonamido group at the 4 - position .
an aromatic ketone that is propiophenone carrying a tert - butylamino group at position 2 and a chloro substituent at position 3 on the phenyl ring .
a titanium oxide with the formula tio2 .
an arenesulfonic acid that is phenol substituted by a sulfo group at c - 4 .
a medium - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of nonanoic acid that in methyl ester form has significant nematicidal activity .
a medium - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of heptanoic acid ;  shown in myocardial ischaemia / reperfusion studies to increase levels of c4 kreb's cycle intermediates .
a straight - chain ,  eleven - carbon saturated medium - chain fatty acid found in body fluids ;  the most fungitoxic of the c7:0  -  c18:0 fatty acid series .
a medium - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of undecanoic acid ;  used in tandem with testosterone cation in the treatment of male hypogonadism .
a hexadec - 9 - enoate that is the conjugate base of palmitoleic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a long - chain fatty acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of arachidonic acid .
a phenolate anion that is the conjugate base of catecholate ( 1 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of alaninate .
the l - enantiomer of alaninium .
the d - enantiomer of alaninate .
an alaninium that is the conjugate acid of d - alanine .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of alanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of alanine .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinium .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
an acrylate ester obtained by the formal condensation of the hydroxy group of  butan - 1 - ol with the carboxy group of  acrylic acid .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinium .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of cysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an optically active form of phenylalaninate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of phenylalaninium having l - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of phenylalaninate .
an optically active form of phenylalaninium having d - configuration .
a thiocarboxamide consiting of acetamide having the oxygen replaced by sulfur .
an aromatic amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylalanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of phenylalanine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an aromatic amine that is diphenylmethane substituted at the 4 - position of each benzene ring by an amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of glycine ,  arising from protonation of the amino .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glycine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a pyridinemonocarboxylate that is the conjugate base of nicotinic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an optically active form of lysinate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of lysinium having l - configuration .
the l - enantiomer of lysinium ( 2 +  )  .
an optically active form of lysinate having d - configuration .
an optically active form of lysinium having d - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of lysinium ( 2 +  )  .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of lysine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of lysine ,  having two cationic amino groups and an anionic carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation obtained by protonation of both amino groups of lysine .
a metal chloride salt with a k (  +  )  counterion .
an acene that consists of four ortho - fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
an alkane - alpha , omega - diammonium ( 2 +  )  that is the dication of putrescine  ( 1 , 4 - butanediamine )  arising from protonation of both primary amino groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of leucine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of leucine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of methionine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate acid of methionine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an optically active form of glutaminate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of glutaminium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of glutaminate having d - configuration .
an optically active form of glutaminium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of glutamine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - arginine ;  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
the l - enantiomer of argininium ( 1 +  )  .
the d - enantiomer of argininium ( 1 +  )  .
an optically active form of tyrosinate having l - configuration .
the l - enantiomer of tyrosinate ( 2 -  )  .
an optically active form of tyrosinium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of tyrosinate ( 1 -  )  having d - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of tyrosinate ( 2 -  )  .
an optically active form of tyrosinium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of tyrosine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of tyrosine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a dihydroxybenzoic acid that is 2 , 4 - dihydroxybenzoic acid in which the hydrogen at position 6 is replaced by a methyl group .
the l - enantiomer of valinate .
the l - enantiomer of  valinium .
the d - enantiomer of valinate .
the d - enantiomer of valinium .
an optically active form of prolinate having l - configuration .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
an optically active form of prolinium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinate having d - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of proline ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of proline ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by a hydrocarbyl group .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having one carbon - carbon double bond and the general formula cnh2n .
a straight chain alkane composed of 9 carbon atoms .
a tetracyclic diterpenoid isolated from plant species of the genus taxus .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
any cyclic ether in which the oxygen atom forms part of a 3 - membered ring .
any monoacylglycerol phosphate obtained by hydrolytic removal of one of the two acyl groups of any phosphatidic acid or derivatives therein .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by deprotonation of one of the phosphate oh groups in diphosphoric acid .
a trivalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of all three protons from diphosphoric acid .
a indol - 3 - yl carboxylic acid that is butanoic acid carrying a 1h - indol - 3 - yl substituent at position 1 .
a mononitrotoluene that is toluene carrying a nitro substituent at position 2 .
a calcium salt with formula ccao3 .
a cyclic amine whose five - membered ring contains four carbon atoms and one nitrogen atom ;  the parent compound of the pyrrolidine family .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by deprotonation of one of the two oh groups in chromic acid .
a dinitrile that is methane substituted by two cyano groups .
a barbiturate ,  the structure of which is that of barbituric acid in which the oxygen at c - 2 is replaced by sulfur .
a bisphenol that is 4 , 4' - methanediyldiphenol in which the methylene hydrogens are replaced by two methyl groups .
a bromobisphenol that is 4 , 4' - methanediyldiphenol in which the methylene hydrogens are replaced by two methyl groups and the phenyl rings are substituted by bromo groups at positions 2 ,  2' ,  6 and 6' .
a benzopyran consisting of a pyran ring having a benzene ring ortho - fused across positions 2 and 3 .
a group of organic food substances found in animals and plants in small quantities .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of mycobacterium tuberculosis and is used in the treatment of tuberculosis .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a chromanol that is chroman - 6 - ol which is substituted at position 2 by a methyl group and  ( also at position 2 )  either a saturated or a triply - unsaturated hydrocarbon chain consisting of three isoprenoid units .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
a univalent group formed by removing a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a derivative of two oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which two acyl groups are attached to the amino or substituted amino group .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance  ( or active part thereof )  that kills or slows the growth of bacteria .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
a substance used to destroy rodent pests .
a substance used to destroy bird pests  ( class aves )  .
any material that can be ingested by an organism .
an energy - rich substance that can be transformed with release of usable energy .
a substance administered to aid diagnosis of a disease .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
an alkaline earth molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkaline earth metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an organic acid in which one or both oxygens of a carboxy group have been replaced by divalent sulfur .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a group derived from an arene by removal of a hydrogen atom from a ring carbon atom .
a cobalt group element atom of atomic number 45 .
a 3 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is propionic acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the terminal carbon is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any monosaccharide containing an alcoholic hydroxy group esterified with phosphoric acid .
arylmethyl groups and derivatives formed by substitution: arcr2 -  .
a univalent group containing carbon which has its free valence at an atom other than carbon .
a pnictogen oxoacid which contains phosphorus and oxygen ,  at least one hydrogen atom bound to oxygen ,  and forms an ion by the loss of one or more protons .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by deprotonation of one of the two oh groups in phosphonic acid .
a benzimidazolecarboxylic acid that is 1h - benzimidazole - 7 - carboxylic acid substituted by an ethoxy group at position 2 and a  ( {2' -  ( 1h - tetrazol - 5 - yl )  [ 1 , 1' - biphenyl ]  - 4 - yl}methyl )  group at position 1 .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
the sulfur oxoanion formed by deprotonation of sulfonic acid .
an organic derivative of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of the sufonate group ( s )  of any organosulfonic acid .
organic derivatives of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon of an aryl group .
any arenesulfonic acid that is benzenesulfonic acid substituted by at least one amino group at unspecified position .
an amino - acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any alpha - amino acid .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
any compound containing an o - diphenol component .
4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) pyrocatechol  [ 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) benzene - 1 , 2 - diol ]  and derivatives formed by substitution .
a catecholamine in which the aminoethyl side - chain is hydroxy - substituted at c - 1 and methylated on nitrogen .
a catecholamine in which c - 1 of the aminoethyl side - chain is hydroxy - substituted .
any benzenediol in which the two hydroxy groups are meta to one another .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
any carboxylic acid having a sulfur substituent .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
a main group molecular entity containing one or more atoms of any noble gas .
a compound containing at least one carbon - lead bond .
the molecular hydrides of boron .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a compound having one atom as the only common member of two rings .
a halophenol that is any phenol containing one or more covalently bonded bromine atoms .
a bromophenol that consists of phenol bearing two bromo substituents at unspecified positions .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
a polycyclic compound in which two rings have two ,  and only two ,  atoms in common .
a polycyclic compound in which one ring contains two ,  and only two ,  atoms in common with each of two or more rings of a contiguous series of rings .
a polycyclic compound having the shape of a cage .
acyclic and cyclic hydrocarbons having one or more carbon - carbon double bonds ,  apart from the formal ones in aromatic compounds .
the inclusive term for any cyclic hydrocarbon having any number of double bonds .
an unsaturated monocyclic hydrocarbon having at least one endocyclic double bond .
acyclic  ( branched or unbranched )  and cyclic  ( with or without side chain )  hydrocarbons having one or more carbon - carbon triple bonds .
acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbons having one or more carbon - carbon double bond .
acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbons having two carbon - carbon double bonds .
acyclic  ( branched or unbranched )  hydrocarbons having one or more carbon - carbon triple bonds .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
an aliphatic compound having a carbocyclic ring structure which may be saturated or unsaturated ,  but may not be a benzenoid or other aromatic system .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
any monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a mancude monocyclic hydrocarbon without side chains of the general formula cnhn  ( n is an even number )  or cnhn + 1  ( n is an odd number )  .
a polycyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one non - carbon atom .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an f - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing ribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  rna is central to the synthesis of proteins .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
an amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position alpha to the carboxy group .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position beta to the carboxy group .
a non - proteinogenic amino - acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position gamma to the carboxy group .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
a cluster is a number of metal centres grouped close together which can have direct metal bonding interactions or interactions through a bridging ligand ,  but are not necessarily held together by these interactions .
a l - proline derivative in which l - proline is substituted on nitrogen with a  ( 2s )  - 2 - methyl - 3 - sulfanylpropanoyl group .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
alkenols ;  the term refers specifically to vinylic alcohols ,  which have the structure hocr'=cr2 .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
conjugated protein is a protein that contains a non - peptide component ,  usually in stoichiometric proportion .
an n - glycosyl compound that has both a nucleobase ,  normally adenine ,  guanine ,  xanthine ,  thymine ,  cytosine or uracil ,  and either a ribose or deoxyribose as functional parents .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
an amino acid whose structure includes an aromatic ring .
any carboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is directly bonded to an aromatic ring .
an amino compound in which the amino group is linked directly to an aromatic system .
a dibenzoazepine that is 5h - dibenzo [ b , f ] azepine carrying a carbamoyl substituent at the azepine nitrogen ,  used as an anticonvulsant .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
a carbamate ester obtained by the formal condensation of  1 - naphthol with methylcarbamic acid .
a substance used to destroy pests of the phylum mollusca .
a derivative of the corrin nucleus ,  which contains four reduced or partly reduced pyrrole rings joined in a macrocycle by three =c -  groups and one direct carbon - carbon bond linking alpha positions .
a pentose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
a hexose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles that is 2 - aminobenzimidazole in which the primary amino group is substituted by a methoxycarbonyl group .
a carbamate ester obtained by the formal condensation of  phenylcarbamic acid with the hydroxy group of n - ethyl - 2 - hydroxypropanamide .
any aldopentose where the open - chain form has all the hydroxy groups on the same side in the fischer projection .
organometallic coordination compounds in which one atom of a transition metal such as iron ,  ruthenium or osmium is bonded to and only to the face of two cyclopentadienyl  [ eta ( 5 )  -  ( c5h5 )  ]  ligands which lie in parallel planes .
a member of the class of chloroethenes that is ethene in which both of the hydrogens attached to one of the carbons are replaced by chlorines .
a trimethylbenzene carrying methyl groups at positions 1 ,  2 and 3 .
a trimethylbenzene carrying methyl groups at positions 1 ,  2 and 4 .
a phenylenediamine in which the two amino groups are ortho to each other .
an anilide obtained by formal condensation of the amino group of aniline with the carboxy group of 2 - methyl - 5 , 6 - dihydro - 1 , 4 - oxathiine - 3 - carboxylic acid .
a 3 - oxo delta ( 4 )  - steroid that is progesterone which has been oxidised to introduce a double bond between positions 1 and 2 .
a mononitronaphthalene substituted by a nitro group at position 1 .
a nitroarene that is pyrene substituted at the 1 - position by a nitro group .
a hexachlorobiphenyl that is biphenyl in which the hydrogens at the 2 ,  3 ,  and 5 positions of each of the benzene rings are replaced by chlorines .
a hexachlorobiphenyl that is biphenyl in which both of the phenyl rings are substituted at positons 2 ,  4 ,  and 6 by chlorines .
a tetrachlorobiphenyl that is biphenyl in which each of the phenyl groups is substituted at positions 2 and 4 by chlorines .
a tetrachlorobiphenyl that is biphenyl in which the hydrogens at positions 2 ,  4 ,  5 ,  and 2' are replaced by chlorines .
a tetrachlorobiphenyl that is biphenyl in which the hydrogens at the 2 and 5 position of each benzene ring are replaced by chlorines .
a trichlorobiphenyl that is 1 , 4 - dichlorobenzene in which one of the hydrogens has been replaced by a 3 - chlorophenyl group .
a tetrachlorobiphenyl in which the chlorines are positions at positions 2 ,  3 ,  4 ,  and 4' .
a trichlorobiphenyl that is biphenyl in which the hydrogens at positions 2 ,  3 ,  and 4 on one of the benzene rings are replaced by chlorines .
a tetrachlorobiphenyl that is biphenyl in which one of the phenyl groups is substituted by chlorines at positions 2 ,  3 ,  5 ,  and 6 .
a trichlorobiphenyl that is 1 , 2 , 4 - trichlorobenzene in which the hydrogen at position 3 has been replaced by a phenyl group .
a dichlorobiphenyl that is chlorobenzene in which the hydrogen at position 2 has been replaced by a 4 - chlorophenyl group .
a tetrachlorobiphenyl that is 1 , 3 , 5 - trichlorobenzene in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a p - chlorophenyl group .
an aminotoluene that is para - toluidine with an additional amino group at position 2 .
a dichlorobiphenyl that is p - dichlorobenzene in which one of the hydrogens has been replaced by a phenyl group .
a member of the class of  phenols that is 4 - methylphenol substituted by tert - butyl groups at positions 2 and 6 .
a dichlorobiphenyl that is 1 , 3 - dichlorobenzene in which the hydrogen at position 2 is replaced by a phenyl group .
a dimethylnaphthalene carrying methyl groups at positions 2 and 6 .
a hydroxybenzophenone that is benzophenone which is substituted at the 2 -  and 4 - positions of one of the benzene rings by hydroxy and methoxy groups respectively .
1 , 3 - benzothiazole substituted at the 2 - position with a sulfanyl group .
a member of the class of phenols that is phenol carrying a butan - 2 - yl group at position 2 .
a carbamate ester obtained by the formal condensation of 2 - sec - butylphenol with methylcarbamic acid .
a pentachlorobiphenyl in which the chlorines are located at the 3 ,  4 ,  5 ,  3' ,  and 4' positions .
a dichlorobiphenyl that is 1 , 3 - dichlorobenzene in which the hydrogen at position 5 has been replaced by a phenyl group .
a pentacyclic ortho -  and peri - fused polycyclic arene consisting of a dihydrocyclopenta [ ij ] tetraphene ring system with a methyl substituent at the 3 - position .
a family of sulfated polysaccharides extracted from red seaweeds .
a dichlorobiphenyl carrying chloro groups at positions 4 and 4' respectively .
a member of the class of phenols that is phenol which is substituted at the para -  position by an octyl group .
a member of the class of phenols that is phenol which is para - substituted with a nonyl group .
a  phosphoramide that is  methamidophos in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by an acetyl group .
a halomethane that is dichloromethane in which oneof the hydrogens has been replaced by a bromine atom .
a dicarboximide that is 3a , 4 , 7 , 7a - tetrahydrophthalimide in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a trichloromethyl group .
a dithioloquinoxaline that results from the formal condensation of 6 - methylquinoxaline - 2 , 3 - dithiol with phosgene .
an  organic thiophosphate that is o , o - diethyl hydrogen phosphorothioate in which the hydrogen of the hydroxy group has been replaced by a 3 , 5 , 6 - trichloropyridin - 2 - yl group .
an organic thiophosphate that is o , o - dimethyl hydrogen phosphorothioate in which the hydrogen of the hydroxy group has been replaced by a 3 , 5 , 6 - trichloropyridin - 2 - yl group .
an alkylbenzene that is benzene carrying an isopropyl group .
a polychlorobiphenyl that is biphenyl in which all of the hydrogens are replaced by chlorines .
a member of the class of  pyrimidines that is pyrimidine carrying an isopropyl group at position 2 ,  a methyl group at position 6 and a  ( diethoxyphosphorothioyl ) oxy group at position 4 .
a phthalate ester that is the diester obtained by the formal condensation of the carboxy groups of phthalic acid with two molecules of  butan - 1 - ol .
an alkenyl phosphate that is the 2 , 2 - dichloroethenyl ester of dimethyl phosphate .
a tertiary alcohol that is ddt in which the benzylic hydrogen has been replaced by a hydroxy group .
an organochlorine compound resulting from the epoxidation of the double bond of aldrin .
the diethyl ester of benzene - 1 , 2 - dicarboxylic acid .
a benzoylurea insecticide that is urea in which a hydrogen attached to one of the nitrogens is replaced by a 4 - chlorophenyl group ,  and a hydrogen attached to the other nitrogen is replaced bgy a 2 , 6 - difluorobenzoyl group .
a monocarboxylic acid amide that is n - methylacetamide in which one of the hydrogens of the methyl group attached to the carbonyl moiety is replaced by a  ( dimethoxyphosphorothioyl ) sulfanediyl group .
a  racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - dinoseb .
a dication whose structure comprises a pentane backbone linking two 1 - methylpyrrolidinium groups ;  a nicotinic antagonist used as a ganglionic blocking agent in hypertension .
an organic thiophosphate that is o , o - dimethyl hydrogen phosphorothioate in which the hydrogen atom of the hydroxy group is replaced by a 3 - methyl - 4 -  ( methylsulfanyl ) phenyl group .
an aldehyde that is furan with the hydrogen at position 2 substituted by a formyl group .
a cyclodiene organochlorine insecticide that is 3a , 4 , 7 , 7a - tetrahydro - 1h - 4 , 7 - methanoindene substituted by chlorine atoms at positions 1 ,  4 ,  5 ,  6 ,  7 ,  8 and 8 .
a cyclic ketone ,  the structure of which is that of cyclohex - 2 - en - 1 - one substituted by methyl groups at positions 3 ,  5 and 5 .
a trimethylbenzene carrying methyl substituents at positions 1 ,  3 and 5 .
an enoate ester having methacrylic acid as the carboxylic acid component and methanol as the alcohol component .
a member of the class of  1 , 2 , 4 - triazines that is 1 , 2 , 4 - triazin - 5 ( 4h )  - one substituted by an amino group at position 4 ,  tert - butyl group at position 6 and a methylsulfanyl group at position 3 .
a carboxylic ester that is pravastatin that is lacking the allylic hydroxy group .
a nitrosamine that is n - ethylethanamine substituted by a nitroso group at the n - atom .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles that is benzimidalole which is substituted at position 2 by a  ( methoxycarbonyl ) amino group and at position 5 by a 2 - thienoyl group .
an organic cation that consists of 4 , 4' - bipyridine bearing two n - methyl substituents loctated at the 1 -  and 1' - positions .
a c - nitro compound that is nitrobenzene in which every hydrogen has been replaced by a chlorine .
a cyclopropanecarboxylate ester in which the esterifying alcohol is 3 - phenoxybenzyl alcohol and the cyclopropane ring is substituted with a 2 , 2 - dichlorovinyl group and with gem - dimethyl groups .
a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid that is pyridine - 2 - carboxylic acid which is substituted by a chloro group at positions 3 , 5 and 6 ,  and by an amino group at position 4 .
a  methoxy - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is 6 - methoxy - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine in which the one of the hydrogens of each amino group is substituted by an isopropyl group .
a member of the class of benzamides resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 3 , 5 - dichlorobenzoic acid with the amino group of 2 - methylbut - 3 - yn - 2 - amine .
a carbamate ester that is phenyl methylcarbamate substituted at position 2 by a propan - 2 - yloxy group .
an ortho - fused bicyclic hydrocarbon that is 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetrahydro derivative of naphthalene .
a trialkyl phosphate that is the tributyl ester of phosphoric acid .
a tertiary amine that is ammonia in which each hydrogen atom is substituted by an ethyl group .
a substituted aniline that is n , n - dipropylaniline substituted by a nitro groups at positions 2 and 6 and a trifluoromethyl group at position 4 .
an  aryl phosphate resulting from the formal condensation of phosphoric acid with 3 mol eq .
an organotin compound that is triphenylstannane in which the hydrogen attached to tin is replaced by a chloro group .
a trialkyl phosphate in which the alkyl group specified is 2 - butoxyethyl .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of serotonin ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of two protons from vanadic acid .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of vanadic acid where one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
an oxo monocarboxylic acid anion in which the oxo group is located at the 2 - position .
a hydrocarbon of biological origin having carbon skeleton formally derived from isoprene  [ ch2=c ( ch3 ) ch=ch2 ]  .
a c10 terpene .
a c5 terpene .
a c15 terpene .
a c20 terpene .
a c30 terpene .
a c40 terpene .
a hemiterpene with the formula ch2=c ( ch3 ) ch=ch2 ;  the monomer of natural rubber and a common structure motif to the isoprenoids ,  a large class of other naturally occurring compounds .
a substance which lowers the surface tension of the medium in which it is dissolved ,  and / or the interfacial tension with other phases ,  and ,  accordingly ,  is positively adsorbed at the liquid / vapour and / or at other interfaces .
a role played by a foreign substance mixed with or attached to a given substance to enable the distribution or location of the latter to be determined subsequently .
a physical tracer is one that is attached by physical means to the object being traced .
a role played by a part of a molecular entity distinguishable by the observer but not by the system and used to identify a tracer .
a substance which is structurally similar to a metabolite but which competes with it or replaces it ,  and so prevents or reduces its normal utilization .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a substance that increases the rate of a reaction without modifying the overall standard gibbs energy change in the reaction .
a small molecule which increases  ( activator )  or decreases  ( inhibitor )  the activity of an  ( allosteric )  enzyme by binding to the enzyme at the regulatory site  ( which is different from the substrate - binding catalytic site )  .
a mononitrotoluene that consists of toluene bearing a nitro substituent at the 4 - position .
a fuel such as coal ,  oil and natural gas which has formed over many years through the decomposition of deposited vegetation which was under extreme pressure of an overburden of earth .
the zwitterionic form of an amino acid having a negatively charged carboxyl group and a positively charged amino group .
a one - carbon compound that is methane in which three of the hydrogens are replaced by chlorines .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually organyl )  groups .
derivatives of ammonium compounds ,   ( nh4 (  +  )  ) y (  -  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually organyl )  groups .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens bonded to the nitrogen have been replaced with univalent organyl groups .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and a s atom bound to a carbon atom ,  thus creating a c - s bond .
compounds  ( nh4 (  +  )  ) y (  -  )  and derivatives ,  in which one or more of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent groups .
neutral molecules having charge - separated forms with an onium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
any neutral molecule having charge - separated forms with a quaternary ammonium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
cations of structure r2c=n (  +  ) r2 .
a choline ester formed from choline and a carboxylic acid .
a dichlorobenzene carrying chloro substituents at positions 1 and 2 .
a retinoate that is the conjugate base of all - trans - retinoic acid .
a polyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
an ortho - fused tricyclic hydrocarbon comprising three fused benzene rings .
any drug that enhances the activity of the central nervous system .
amines that constitute a class of central nervous system stimulants based on the structure of the parent amphetamine 1 - phenylpropan - 2 - amine .
a hydrochloride having methamphetamine as the base component .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
the alpha - stereoisomer of 17 - hydroxy steroid .
a 17 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group at position 17 has a beta - configuration .
any 11 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group at position 11 has beta -  configuration .
a sterol in which the hydroxy group at position 3 has beta -  configuration .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an imide in which the two acyl substituents on nitrogen are carboacyl groups .
an amide of a sulfonic acid rs ( =o ) 2nr'2 .
compounds having the structure rc ( =nr ) nr2 .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing  - oh  by  - nrnr2  ( r groups are commonly h )  .
a hydrazide consisting of hydrazine carrying one or more carboacyl groups .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
parent monosaccharides are polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h or polyhydroxy ketones h -  [ choh ] n - c ( =o )  [ choh ] m - h with three or more carbon atoms .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of aspartic acid .
a chromium oxoanion resulting from the removal of two protons from chromic acid .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a primary diamine is a compound derived from a hydrocarbon by replacing two hydrogen atoms by amino groups .
a primary diamine that is ethane or a higher alkane in which a hydrogen of each of the terminal methyl groups has been replaced by an amino group .
any glucoside in which the glycoside group is derived from d - glucose .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
a substance used to treat or prevent parasitic infections .
substance intended to kill parasitic worms  ( helminths )  .
a substance used in the treatment or control of nematode infestations .
a tetrachlorobiphenyl that is biphenyl in which both phenyl groups are substituted by chlorines at positions 3 and 5 .
a chloroarene that consists of a biphenyl skeleton substituted by one or more chloro groups .
an ec 3 .4 .15 .*  ( peptidyl - dipeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of peptidyl - dipeptidase a  ( ec 3 .4 .15 .1 )  .
antidepressants are mood - stimulating drugs used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
a substance that reduces or suppresses inflammation .
a traditional grouping of drugs said to have a soothing or calming effect on mood ,  thought or behaviour .
anxiolytic drugs are agents that alleviate anxiety ,  tension ,  and anxiety disorders ,  promote sedation ,  and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions .
an anti - inflammatory drug that is not a steroid .
antipsychotic drugs are agents that control agitated psychotic behaviour ,  alleviate acute psychotic states ,  reduce psychotic symptoms ,  and exert a quieting effect .
antimanic drugs are agents used to treat bipolar disorders or mania associated with other affective disorders .
an agent capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
a drug that has principally analgesic ,  antipyretic and anti - inflammatory actions .
a narcotic or opioid substance ,  synthetic or semisynthetic agent producing profound analgesia ,  drowsiness ,  and changes in mood .
compounds of the general formula rooc - ch=ch - coor' where r and r' are organyl groups
an ec 1 .2 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group with nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of aldehyde dehydrogenase  ( nad (  +  )  )  ,  ec 1 .2 .1 .3 .
a loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system .
compounds of structure rssr in which r and r' are organic groups .
a drug that prevents or reduces fever by lowering the body temperature from a raised state .
any fluoroarene that is a benzene or a substituted benzene carrying at least one fluoro group .
a compound which inhibits or antagonises the biosynthesis or actions of androgens .
an agent that promotes the excretion of urine through its effects on kidney function .
drugs capable of inducing illusions ,  hallucinations ,  delusions ,  paranoid ideations and other alterations of mood and thinking .
an addition compound contains two or more simpler compounds that can be packed in a definite ratio into a crystal .
an addition compound that contains water in weak chemical combination with another compound .
an agent that causes an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes .
a drug that mimics the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves .
a drug which lowers the blood glucose level .
an agent that binds to but does not activate beta - adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous beta - adrenergic agonists .
a compound or agent that combines with cyclooxygenases  ( ec 1 .14 .99 .1 )  and thereby prevents its substrate - enzyme combination with arachidonic acid and the formation of icosanoids ,  prostaglandins ,  and thromboxanes .
a fluoroalkanoic acid that is perfluorinated decanoic acid .
a fluoroalkanoic acid that is perfluorinated heptanoic acid .
a fluoroalkanoic acid that is perfluorinated octanoic acid .
any organofluorine compound that is the perfluorinated derivative of any alkanoic acid .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
a monocyclic heteroarene with a structure consisting of a 5 - membered ring containing four carbons and one oxygen ,  with formula c4h4o .
any molecular entity that consists of a ring having  ( formally )  the maximum number of noncumulative double bonds .
a heterobicyclic aromatic organic compound comprising a pyrimidine ring fused to an imidazole ring ;  the parent compound of the purines .
the 1h - tautomer of purine .
the 3h - tautomer of purine .
the 9h - tautomer of purine .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor which interferes with the activity of the enzyme protein tyrosine phosphatases  ( ptps )  ,  ec 3 .1 .3 .48 ,  involved in the removal of phosphate groups from phosphorylated tyrosine residues on proteins .
a member of the class of piperazines that is piperazine in which the hydrogens attached to nitrogen are replaced by a  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  ( phenyl ) methyl and a 2 -  ( carboxymethoxy ) ethyl group respectively .
a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
a food additive that is used to added improve the taste or odour of a food .
any ether in which the oxygen is attached to at least one aryl substituent .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
an azaspiro compound is a spiro compound in which at least one of the cyclic components is a nitrogen heterocyle .
an ec 3 .5 .2 .*  ( non - peptide cyclic amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of beta - lactamase  ( ec 3 .5 .2 .6 )  .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a four - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
adrenergic uptake inhibitors are drugs that block the transport of adrenergic transmitters into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals .
an inhibitor of hiv protease ,  an enzyme required for production of proteins needed for viral assembly .
any ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that inhibits hmg - coa reductases .
any drug used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular hypertension regardless of pharmacological mechanism .
a group of two - ring heterocyclic compounds consisting of a benzene ring fused to an azepine ring .
a drug that binds to and activates histamine receptors .
a substance used to treat hyperlipidemia  ( an excess of lipids in the blood )  .
a secondary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has two other carbon atoms attached to it .
a member of the class of naphthols carrying a single hydroxy substituent at c - 1 or c - 2 .
any organic sulfide in which the sulfur is attached to at least one aromatic group .
an agent used to treat cestode ,  trematode ,  or other flatworm infestations in man or animals .
a secondary alcohol that is butane substituted by a hydroxy group at position 2 .
a member of the class of  benzimidazoles carrying a carboxy group at unspecified position .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains four n atoms and one c atom .
any carboxylic acid containing two carboxy groups .
any dicarboxylic acid anion that is a monoanion obtained by the deprotonation of only one of the carboxy groups of the dicarboxylic acid .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
an ether in which the oxygen atom is linked to two ethyl groups .
a xenobiotic  ( greek ,  xenos  \ "foreign \ " ;  bios  \ "life \ " )  is a compound that is foreign to a living organism .
an agent that suppresses immune function by one of several mechanisms of action .
a monoterpene that is bicyclo [ 3 .1 .1 ] heptane substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 ,  6 and 6 .
a compound having a nitro group ,   - no2  ( free valence on nitrogen )  ,  which may be attached to carbon ,  nitrogen  ( as in nitramines )  ,  or oxygen  ( as in nitrates )  ,  among other elements  ( in the absence of specification ,  c - nitro compounds are usually implied )  .
a nitro compound having the nitro group  (  - no2 )  attached to a carbon atom .
a central nervous system depressant used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety .
an  antimicrobial agent that destroys fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce .
h2ns ( =o ) 2oh  ( sulfamic acid )  and its n - hydrocarbyl derivatives .
any carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with the hydroxy group of propan - 2 - ol .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains three n atoms and two c atoms .
compounds in which one oxygen of a carboxy group has been replaced by divalent sulfur ;  rc ( =o ) sh or rc ( =s ) oh .
any member of the group of lipids containing a common glycerol backbone to which at least one fatty acid - derived group is attached .
an oxoacid containing four carboxy groups .
any fatty acid containing a ring composed of carbon atoms .
an aldehyde formally arising from reduction of the carboxylic acid group of its corresponding fatty acid ,  having a carbonyl group at one end of the carbon chain .
a carboxylic ester in which the carboxylic acid component can be any fatty acid .
any anion of a tricarboxylic acid  formed by deprotonation of at least one carboxy group .
any anion of a tetracarboxylic acid formed by deprotonation of one or more carboxy groups .
a carboxylic acid anion formed when the carboxy group of a monocarboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
an azole based on a five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton containing one n and one o atom .
compounds having the nitroso group ,   - no ,  attached to carbon ,  or to another element ,  most commonly nitrogen or oxygen .
n - nitroso amines ,  compounds of the structure r2nno .
an agent useful in the treatment or prevention of coccidiosis in man or animals .
any fatty acid in which the parent hydrocarbon chain has one or more alkyl substituents ;  a common component in animal and bacterial lipids .
any antimicrobial drug which is used to treat or prevent protozoal infections .
a substance used to lower plasma cholesterol levels .
the saturated hydrides of tervalent arsenic ,  having the general formula asnhn + 2 .
a drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis .
h3as=o and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
a drug that increases uric acid excretion by the kidney  ( uricosuric drug )  ,  decreases uric acid production  ( antihyperuricemic )  ,  or alleviates the pain and inflammation of acute attacks of gout .
an organosulfur compound having the structure rs ( =o ) 2r  ( r = / = h )  .
a compound or agent that combines with lipoxygenase and thereby prevents its substrate - enzyme combination with arachidonic acid and the formation of the icosanoid products hydroxyicosatetraenoic acid and various leukotrienes .
any monocarboxylic acid which also contains a separate  ( alcoholic or phenolic )  hydroxy substituent .
any monocarboxylic acid having at least one additional oxo functional group .
anhydrides derived from carboxylic acids .
the saturated hydrides of tervalent phosphorus having the general formula pnhn + 2 .
phosphane  ( ph3 )  and compounds derived from it by substituting one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups: rph2 ,  r2ph ,  r3p  ( r = / = h )  are called primary ,  secondary and tertiary phosphines ,  respectively .
any carboxylic acid anion containing at least one oxo group .
any monocarboxylic acid having a 2 - oxo substituent .
a monosubstitution product of hydrogen peroxide ,  hooh .
monosubstitution products of hydrogen peroxide hooh ,  having the skeleton rooh ,  in which r is any organyl group .
an agent that has an affinity for serotonin receptors and is able to mimic the effects of serotonin by stimulating the physiologic activity at the cell receptors .
a substance used for its pharmacological action on any aspect of neurotransmitter systems .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that has a hydroxy group beta to the carboxy group .
any  hydroxy monocarboxylic acid carrying at least two hydroxy groups .
any amino acid carrying two amino groups .
a polycyclic compound in which two rings have two or more atoms in common .
a family of polyunsaturated fatty acids that have in common a final carbon - carbon double bond in the n - 6 position ,  i .e . ,  the sixth bond from the methyl end of the fatty acid .
a one - carbon compound that is methane in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a chloro group .
a member of the class of chloroethanes carrying three chloro substituents at position 1 .
a chloroalkane that is ethane in which one or more of the  hydrogens is replaced by chlorine .
a member of the class of chloroethanes that is ethane substituted by chloro groups at positions 1 ,  1 and 2 .
an octadecenoic acid with a double bond at c - 9 .
a member of the class of  chloroethanes that is ethane substituted by chloro groups at positions 1 ,  1 ,  2 and 2 .
any  stilbenoid with at least one phenolic group .
a 20 - carbon ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid having four double bonds at unspecified positions .
a drug used to treat or prevent microbial infections .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of virus diseases .
a drug used to treat or prevent bacterial infections .
a drug used to treat infestations with arthropods of the subclass acari  ( mites and ticks )  .
esters of benzoic acid or substituted benzoic acids .
any monocarboxylic acid anion carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
a drug that stimulates contraction of the myometrium .
a biological macromolecule minimally consisting of one polypeptide chain synthesized at the ribosome .
a hydroxybenzoate that is the  conjugate base of dihydroxybenzoic acid .
an alicyclic ketone in which the carbocyclic ring structure forms part of a terpene skeleton .
a cyclic ketone in which the carbocyclic ring structure which may be saturated or unsaturated ,  but may not be a benzenoid or other aromatic system .
any alicyclic ketone that consists of a cyclopentane skeleton substituted by at least one oxo group .
compounds having a fully conjugated cyclic dione structure ,  such as that of benzoquinones ,  derived from aromatic compounds by conversion of an even number of  - ch= groups into  - c ( =o )  -  groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds  ( polycyclic and heterocyclic analogues are included )  .
a c7 ,  medium - chain fatty acid carrying a double bond at any position along the main chain .
the alpha - anomer of lactose .
a compound in which two monosaccharides are joined by a glycosidic bond .
a steroid acid that consists of cholane having a carboxy group in place of the methyl group at position 24 .
members of the class of cholanic acids based on a 5beta - cholane skeleton .
the conjugate base of but - 2 - enoic acid .
any icosatetraenoic acid with the double bonds at positions 5 ,  8 ,  11 and 14 .
the glycerol phosphate ester of a phosphocholine .
unsaturated c18 fatty acids and skeletally related compounds .
hydroperoxy - octadecadienoic acids ,  formed in mammalian cells by peroxidation of linoleic acid .
any member of a group of drugs that reversibly inhibit the propagation of signals along nerves .
a drug used to treat or prevent infections caused by protozoal organisms belonging to the suborder trypanosomatida .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
particle of integer spin quantum number following bose - einstein statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
an aminoquinoline that is quinoline which is substituted at position 4 by a  [ 5 -  ( diethylamino ) pentan - 2 - yl ] amino group at at position 7 by chlorine .
a compound derived from an alkene by replacing a hydrogen atom with a chlorine atom .
a dinitrile that is benzene - 1 , 3 - dicarbonitrile substituted by four chloro groups .
an unsaturated monocyclic hydrocarbon having two endocyclic double bonds .
a monocyclic hydrocarbon having any number of double bonds .
a cycloalkene that is cylohexane with a single double bond .
a coordination entity in which the central atom to which the ligands are attached comes from groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  or 18 of the periodic table .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
a coordination entity that is coordination complex of a metals with one or more carbon monoxide ligands .
the cyclic dicarboxylic anhydride that is the anhydride of phthalic acid .
compounds consisting of two acyl groups bonded to the same oxygen atom acyl - o - acyl .
acid anhydrides derived by loss of water between two oxoacid functions rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )   ( carboxylic ,  sulfonic ,  etc . ) 
an acid anhydride derived by loss of water between two carboxylic groups in the same molecule so as to close a ring .
an acyclic carboxylic anhydride derived from acetic acid .
any terpenoid derived from a triterpene .
a naphthyridine in which the nitrogens are at positions 1 and 4 .
a mancude organic heterobicyclic parent that is a heterocyclic organic compound comprising fused benzene and imidazole rings .
any one of eight organic heterobicyclic compounds that have a naphthalene skeleton in which two of the carbons are replaced by nitrogens .
any dibenzodioxine in which two or more hydrogens have been replaced by chlorines .
an organochlorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chlorine bond .
a carboxylic acid containing at least one chloro group .
a compound derived from an arene by replacing a hydrogen atom with a chlorine atom .
a compound consisting of an acyl group bonded to chlorine .
a dichlorobenzene carrying chloro substituents at positions 1 and 3 .
any of a class of steroid hormones that are produced in the adrenal cortex .
any compound having phosphocholine as part of its structure .
an alkyl , acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which unspecified alkyl and acyl groups are located at positions 1 and 2 respectively .
a 2 - acyl - 1 - alkyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine where the 2 - o - acyl group is specified as acetyl ;  a potent phospholipid activator and mediator of many leukocyte functions ,  including platelet aggregation ,  inflammation ,  and anaphylaxis .
any member of the class of quinolines in which the quinoline skeleton is substituted by one or more amino or substituted - amino groups .
any polychlorobiphenyl with molecular formula c12h8cl2 .
any polychlorobiphenyl with molecular formula c12h7cl3 .
any polychlorobiphenyl with molecular formula c12h6cl4 .
any polychlorobiphenyl with molecular formula c12h5cl5 .
any polychlorobiphenyl with molecular formula c12h4cl6 .
a pinene that is bicyclo [ 3 .1 .1 ] hept - 2 - ene substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 ,  6 and 6 respectively .
a sesquiterpene that is dodecane substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 ,  6 and 10 .
any diterpenoid with a labdane skeleton .
a cyclic monoterpene ketone that is bornane bearing an oxo substituent at position 2 .
a bicyclic compound in which all the ring atoms are carbon .
compounds containing a tetralin skeleton .
a 1 -  [ 3 -  ( dimethylamino ) propyl ]  - 1 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl )  - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 - benzofuran - 5 - carbonitrile that has s - configuration at the chiral centre .
a 1 -  [ 3 -  ( dimethylamino ) propyl ]  - 1 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl )  - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 - benzofuran - 5 - carbonitrile that has r - configuration at the chiral centre .
a monocarboxylic acid that is cyclopropanecarboxylic acid substituted by two methyl groups at position 2 and a 2 - methylprop - 1 - en - 1 - yl group at position 3 .
a salt formally resulting from the reaction of hydrochloric acid with an organic base .
a fluorohydrocarbon that is fluoroform in which the hydrogen is substituted by a phenyl group .
o - organyl oximes r2c=nor'  ( r' = / = h )  .
two or more cyclic systems  ( single rings or fused systems )  which are directly joined to each other by double or single bonds are named ring assemblies when the number of such direct ring junctions is one less than the number of cyclic systems involved .
any hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 3 .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid in which the 3 - hydroxy substituent is in the  beta - position .
a hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 17 .
any hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 16 .
any  hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 2 .
a 14 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group has a beta - configuration .
compounds that resemble the halogen elements ,  x2 ,  in their chemistry .
a radical that carries an electric charge .
an oxo steroid carrying an oxo group at position 20 .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
the simplest member of the thiourea class ,  consisting of urea with the oxygen atom substituted by sulfur .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
the thioether resulting from the formal oxidative coupling of the thiol group of l - cysteine with the 7 - position of  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( { [  ( 1s )  - 2 , 2 - dimethylcyclopropyl ] carbonyl}amino ) hept - 2 - enoic acid .
a nucleotide is a nucleoside phosphate resulting from the condensation of the 3 or 5 hydroxy group of a nucleoside with phosphoric acid .
a methylbutyric acid comprising a butyric acid core carrying a 2 - methyl substituent .
a compound containing at least one carbon - bromine bond .
an organoiodine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - iodine bond .
an organofluorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - fluorine bond .
an epoxide that is 1 , 2 - epoxypropene in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by chlorine .
any member of the class of bromobenzenes that consists of a benzene or a substituted benzene ring carrying two bromo groups at unspecified positions .
a compound derived from an arene by replacing a hydrogen atom with a bromine atom .
a member of the class of benzenes that is benzene substituted by at least one bromo group .
a dibromobenzene carrying bromo groups at positions 1 and 3 .
any ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of phosphoprotein phosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .16 )  .
a hydrogen butenedioate that is the  conjugate base of maleic acid .
a polysaccharide composed of glucose residues .
glycans composed of a single type of monosaccharide residue .
polysaccharides composed of galactose residues .
saturated silicon hydrides ,  analogues of the alkanes ;  i .e .
a  polyol with five hydroxy groups .
a polyol that contains 6 hydroxy groups .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  - citalopram and its enantiomer ,   escitalopram .
an actinoid molecular entity containing at least one atome of thorium .
the 6 - o - methyl ether of erythromycin a ,  clarithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic used in the treatment of respiratory - tract ,  skin and soft - tissue infections .
a 7 , 8 - dimethylbenzo [ g ] pteridine - 2 , 4 - dione that is  isoalloxazine substituted by methyl groups at positions 7 and 8 .
a substance administered to enhance contrast in images of the inside of the body obtained using x - rays ,  gamma - rays ,  sound waves ,  radio waves  ( mri )  ,  or radioactive particles in order to diagnose disease .
a substance having the property of absorbing ,  and therefore being opaque to ,  electromagnetic radiation ,  particularly x - rays .
any of the group of polysaccharides composed of alternating units from uronic acids and glycosamines ,  and commonly partially esterified with sulfuric acid .
any ether in which the oxygen atom forms part of a ring .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the pteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid units .
a carbohydrate - containing antibiotic that is the  semisynthetic derivative of lincomycin ,  a natural antibiotic .
a oxazolidinone that is 1 , 2 - oxazolidin - 3 - one substituted by a 2 - chlorobenzyl group at position 2 and two methyl groups at position 4 .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
esters of phorbol ,  originally found in croton oil  ( from croton tiglium ,  of the family euphorbiaceae )  .
derivatives of diazene with the general structure r - n=n - r' .
a phorbol ester that is phorbol in which the hydroxy groups at the cyclopropane ring juction  ( position 13 )  and the adjacent carbon  ( position 12 )  have been converted into the corresponding acetate and myristate esters .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
a compound consisting of an acyl group bonded to halogen .
a lactone having a five - membered lactone ring .
compounds having two beta - haloalkyl groups bound to a nitrogen atom ,  as in  ( x - ch2 - ch2 ) 2nr .
an alkene that is octadecane containing one double bond at unspecified position .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
the l - enantiomer of glucopyranose .
a l - glucopyranose with a beta - configuration at the anomeric position .
a member of the class of imidazoles that is 1h - imidazole in which the hydrogen attached to a nitrogen is replaced by a monochlorotrityl group .
a benzodiazepine that is 5h - dibenzo [ b , e ]  [ 1 , 4 ] diazepine substituted by a chloro group at position 8 and a 4 - methylpiperazin - 1 - yl group at position 11 .
any member of a diverse class of complex ,  multicyclic phytochemicals showing a variety of skeleton arrangements and bioactivities ,  and having in common a sesquiterpenoid structure including a lactone ring .
a compound which inhibits or antagonizes the biosynthesis or actions of proteases  ( endopeptidases )  .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protein kinases .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protein kinase c  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .13 )  .
any imide in which the acyl substituents are any two from carboacyl ,  sulfonyl and phosphoryl
an ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cholinesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .8 )  .
a phosphonic acid derivative in which one or both oh groups have been esterified .
any glycerolipid having a phosphate group ester - linked to a terminal carbon of the glycerol backbone .
any haloalkane carrying at least one iodo group .
an organosulfonic acid containing one or more amino groups .
a straight chain alkane composed of 4 carbon atoms .
an aminotoluene in which the amino substituent is para to the methyl group .
a straight chain alkane consisting of 5 carbon atoms .
acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbons having four carbon - carbon double bonds .
a carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of at least one oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a plant growth regulator that modulates the formation of stems ,  leaves and flowers ,  as well as the development and ripening of fruit .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates adrenergic receptors .
an agent that binds to but does not activate adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists .
an agent that binds to but does not activate alpha - adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous alpha - adrenergic agonists .
any coumarin carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
the 10h - tautomer of phenothiazine .
a thienopyridine that is 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 - tetrahydrothieno [ 3 , 2 - c ] pyridine in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by an o - chlorobenzyl group ,  the methylene hydrogen of which is replaced by a  methoxycarbonyl group  ( the s enantiomer )  .
any organic heterobicyclic compound whose skeleton results from the formal ortho - fusion of any bond of a pyridine with any bond of a thiophene .
any carbohydrate sulfate that is a polysaccharide carrying at least one o - sulfo substituent .
a spiro compound in which at least one of the cyclic components is an oxygen heterocyle .
h1 - receptor antagonists are the drugs that selectively bind to but do not activate histamine h1 receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of endogenous histamine .
histamine antagonists are the drugs that bind to but do not activate histamine receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of histamine or histamine agonists .
drugs used for their actions on histaminergic systems .
h2 - receptor antagonists are the drugs that selectively bind to but do not activate histamine h2 receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of endogenous histamine .
any agent that acts on an adrenergic receptor or affects the life cycle of an adrenergic transmitter .
any of a class of cyclic chemical compounds that contain an unsaturated six - membered ring with one ring oxygen atom and an oxo substituent .
a macromolecule derived from one species of  ( real ,  implicit or hypothetical )  monomer .
any aminopurine that has amino substituents at positions 2 and 6 ,  and their substituted derivatives .
a carbopolyclic compound comprising of three carbocyclic rings .
any of three isomers generated by replacing three of the carbon atoms of benzene with nitrogen atoms .
a  diamino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is n , n' - di ( propan - 2 - yl )  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine substituted by a chloro group at position 6 .
a drug used in the treatment of malaria .
a chloro - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is 2 - chloro - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine substituted by an ethyl amino and a  ( 2 - cyanopropan - 2 - yl ) amino group at positions 6 and 4 respectively .
a drug used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
a compound composed of two or more pyrrole units .
an ester of malonic acid ;  any compound containing a malonate ester skeleton .
a gamma - lactone that is 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 - benzofuran in which the hydrogens at position 1 are replaced by an oxo group .
an intramolecular cyclic ester of a hydroxy sulfonic acid ,  analogous to lactone .
any member of the class of cardenolides with glycosyl residues attached to position 3 .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
compounds based on a triazine skeleton .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
any aldehyde with two aldehyde groups .
any organonitrogen compound with formula rs - c ( =x ) nh2 where x = o  ( monothiocarbamic esters )  or s  ( dithiocarbamic esters )  ,  or their n - substituted derivatives .
a thiocarbamic ester formally derived from a monothiocarbamic acid .
any ester derived from a member of the class of dithiocarbamic acids by formal replacement of the  - sh group by  - sr ,  where r is an organyl group .
cyclic hemiacetals formed by intramolecular addition of a hydroxy group to an aldehydic or ketonic carbonyl group .
a drug that has a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output .
any of low - molecular - mass iron ( iii )  - chelating compounds produced by plants for the purpose of the transport and sequestration of iron .
a ligand with two or more separate binding sites that can bind to a single metallic central atom ,  forming a chelate .
a member of the class of 1 , 3 , 5 - triazines that is 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine substituted by at least one chloro group at unspecified position .
any member of the class of 1 , 3 , 5 - triazines that consists of a 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine skeleton substituted by two amino groups .
any diamino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine in which the amino group is substituted by at least one cyano group .
any member of the class of 1 , 3 , 5 - triazines substituted by at least one methoxy group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid .
a pyridinemonocarboxylate resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of picolinic acid .
compounds containing a pyridine skeleton substituted by one or more amine groups .
a naphthalenesulfonic acid having at least one amino substituent .
a member of the class of phhenylureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by a p - chlorophenyl group while the other is substituted by two methyl groups .
one of a class of drugs that acts by selective inhibition of calcium influx through cell membranes or on the release and binding of calcium in intracellular pools .
any toxin produced by a plant .
any inhibitor of a dna polymerase .
any of a class of heterocyclic amines having a saturated five - membered ring .
the l - enantiomer of ascorbate and conjugate base of l - ascorbic acid ,  arising from selective deprotonation of the 3 - hydroxy group .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
an ec 1 .13 .11 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on single donors and incorporating 2 atoms of oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of 4 - hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .27 )  .
an aromatic ketone that is cyclohexa - 1 , 3 - dione in which one of the hydrogens at position 2 is substituted by a 4 -  ( methanesulfonyl )  - 2 - nitrobenzoyl group .
any drug used for its actions on cholinergic systems .
any drug that binds to and activates cholinergic receptors .
any drug that binds to and activates a muscarinic cholinergic receptor .
a pyrimidine carrying one or more oxo substituents .
a member of the class of  pyrimidines that is pyrimidine substituted by at least one amino group and its derivatives .
a hexenoic acid with the double bond at position 4 .
a heptenoic acid with the double bond at position 6 .
a fluoroalkanoic acid that is nonanoic acid in which all of the hydrogens in the alkyl chain are replaced by fluorines .
a carbohydrazide that is hydrazine in which the amino hydrogens have been replaced by 3 - methoxy - 2 - methylbenzoyl ,  3 , 5 - dimethylbenzoyl ,   and tert - butyl groups respectively .
a carbohydrazide that is hydrazine in which the amino hydrogens have been replaced by tert - butyl ,  3 , 5 - dimethylbenzoyl and 4 - ethylbenzoyl groups respectively .
any member of the class of indolones whose structure is based on an oxindole  ( 2 - indolone )  skeleton .
derivatives of carbamic acid with insecticidal properties of general formula roc ( =o ) nr ( 1 ) r ( 2 )  ,  where roh is an alcohol ,  oxime ,  or phenol and r ( 1 )  is hydrogen or methyl .
an ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of enzyme acetylcholinesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .7 )  ,  which helps breaking down of acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid .
a nitrile that is hydrogen cyanide in which the hydrogen has been replaced by a methyl group .
an ec 1 .9 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cytochrome c oxidase  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .1 )  .
a respiratory - chain inhibitor that interferes with the action of the the enzyme nadh:ubiquinone reductase  ( h (  +  )  - translocating )  ,  ec 1 .6 .5 .3 .
a carbamate ester obtained by the formal condensation of the phenolic group of 3 , 5 - dimethyl - 4 -  ( methylsulfanyl ) phenol with the carboxy group of  methylcarbamic acid .
any organic heterobicyclic compound based on a quinazoline skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
compounds having the structure r2c=nnr2 ,  formally derived from aldehydes or ketones by replacing =o by =nnh2  ( or substituted analogues )  .
an amino acid consisting of carbamic acid having two methyl substituents both attached to the nitrogen .
a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is  ( 6e )  - 7 - {4 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl )  - 2 -  [ methyl ( methylsulfonyl ) amino ]  - 6 -  ( propan - 2 - yl ) pyrimidin - 5 - yl} hept - 6 - enoic acid carrying two hydroxy substituents at positions 3 and 5  ( the 3r , 5s - diastereomer )  .
any member of the class of fluorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring carrying two fluorine atoms .
a difluorobenzene carrying fluoro groups at positions 1 and 3 .
an organic anion with formula c3h3n2 resulting from the removal of a proton from 1h ,  3h ,  or 4h - pyrazole .
an ec 1 .4 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh2 group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of monoamine oxidase  ( ec 1 .4 .3 .4 )  .
a hydroxypyrimidine that is pyrimidine substituted by an isopropyl group at position 2 ,  a methyl group at position 6 and a hydroxy group at position 4 .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
an agent that inhibits sodium influx through cell membranes .
any protein kinase inhibitor that interferes with the action of tyrosine kinase .
a methyl - branched fatty acid comprising a butyric acid core carrying a single methyl substituent .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 2 - methylbutanoic acid .
any organochlorine compound that has been used as a pesticide .
any organochlorine pesticide that has been used as an acaricide .
an organic thiophosphate that is the diethyl ester of s -  [ 2 -  ( ethylsulfanyl ) ethyl ]  dihydrogen phosphorodithioate .
an organic thiophosphate that is s , s' - methanediyl bis [ dihydrogen  ( phosphorodithioate )  ]  in which all the hydroxy groups have been converted to their corresponding ethyl esters respectively .
any flavonoid with a 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 - aryl - 2h - 1 - benzopyran skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
an epoxide that is oxirane substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
any hydroxyflavone in which two ring hydrogens are replaced by hydroxy substituents .
substance used to treat lice  ( genus pediculus )  infestation .
any dianion containing at least one carboxy group .
a trianion containing at least one carboxy group .
an organic thiophosphate resulting from the n - deacylation of the proinsecticide acephate .
an alkenyl phosphate that is the 4 -  ( methylamino )  - 4 - oxobut - 2 - en - 2 - yl ester of dimethyl phosphate .
an dialkyl phosphate resulting from the formal condensation of the acidic hydroxy group of dimethyl hydrogen phosphate with the alcoholic hydroxy group of 1 , 2 - dibromo - 2 , 2 - dichloroethanol .
a monocarboxylic acid amide resulting from formal condensation between mercaptoacetic acid and methylamine .
a hydroxyflavanone carrying three hydroxy substituents .
a c - nitro compound that is  4 - nitrophenol substituted by a  ( dimethoxyphosphorothioyl ) oxy group at position 4 .
any polyamine that contained three amino groups .
member of the class of isoflavones bearing at least one hydroxy group .
any isoflavonoid with a 3 - aryl - 1 - benzopyran - 4 - one  ( 3 - aryl - 4h - chromen - 4 - one )  skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
any naphthyridine derivative that is a derivative of quinoxaline  ( 1 , 4 - naphthyridine )  .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the monoanion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group attached to the quinoline skeleton
a compound having the nitro group  (  - no2 )  attached to a nitrogen atom .
any oxacycle that is oxetane or its substituted derivatives .
any compound containing morpholine as part of its structure .
agents that increase calcium influx into calcium channels of excitable tissues .
a membrane transport modulator that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
a  dicarboximide that is 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1h - isoindole substituted by oxo groups at positions 1 and 3 .
a compound that has significant antifungal properties whose structure contains a quinoxaline moiety .
a quinoxaline derivative that has pesticidal properties .
compounds consisting wholly of fluorine and carbon .
a member of the class of benzofurans consisting of a 1 - benzofuran skeleton and its substituted derivatives thereof .
an  organic thiophosphate that is o , o - dimethyl o - pyrimidin - 4 - yl phosphorothioate substituted by a methyl group at position 6 and a diethylamino group at position 2 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenoxyacetic acid .
a halophenol that is phenol in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 4 have been replaced by chlorine and bromine ,  respectively .
an ortho - fused bicyclic hydrocarbon that is the decahydro -  derivative of naphthalene .
substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
an isopropyl ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 3 - hydroxybut - 2 - enoic acid with isopropanol .
substance that produces loss of consciousness .
a member of the class of pyrazoles that is 1h - pyrazole substituted by a phenyl group at position 1 .
a diarylmethane that is methane substituted by two phenyl groups .
a carbamate ester that consists of 2 , 3 , 5 - trimethylphenol carrying an o -  ( n - methylcarbamoyl )  group .
any organic heterotricyclic compound based on a dibenzofuran skeleton and its substituted derivatives thereof .
any organic heterobicyclic compound consisting of a pyridine ring ortho - fused at any position to a pyrimidine ring .
drugs that used to treat infestations by flukes  ( trematodes )  of the genus schistosoma .
an organic sulfide that is diphenyl sulfide in which the hydrogen at the para position of each of the phenyl groups has been replaced by a  ( dimethoxyphosphorothioyl ) oxy group .
an alkaloid containing an indole skeleton .
an  aryl sulfide that consists of two phenyl groups connected by a sulphur atom .
any alkylbenzene that is benzene substituted with one or more methyl groups .
a  monocyclic arene that is benzene substituted with one or more alkyl groups .
protein component on the surface of lipoprotein .
a complex in which one component  ( the host )  forms a cavity or ,  in the case of a crystal ,  a crystal lattice containing spaces in the shape of long tunnels or channels in which molecular entities of a second chemical species  ( the guest )  are located .
inclusion compound in which the guest molecule is in a cage formed by the host molecule or by a lattice of host molecules .
a class of lipoproteins of small size  ( 4 - 13 nm )  and dense  ( greater than 1 .063 g / ml )  particles .
a class of lipoproteins of small size  ( 18 - 25 nm )  and low density  ( 1 .019 - 1 .063 g / ml )  particles with a core composed mainly of cholesterol esters and smaller amounts of triglycerides .
any sulfur oxoacid derivative derived from sulfurous acid .
a trans - chrysanthemic acid in which both stereocentres have r configuration .
an ortho -  and peri - fused polycyclic arene consisting of four fused benzene rings ,  resulting in a flat aromatic system .
any magnesium ion that is positively charged .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity that is an electron - pair acceptor and therefore able to form a covalent bond with an electron - pair donor  ( lewis base )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
any chlorocycloalkane that is cyclohexane substituted by at least one chlorine group .
a chlorohydrocarbon that is any cycloalkane substituted by at least one chloro group .
a 3 -  ( 1 - methylpyrrolidin - 2 - yl ) pyridine in which the chiral centre has r - configuration .
a carboxamidine that is acetamidine in which the amino hydrogens are substituted by a  ( 6 - chloropyridin - 3 - yl ) methyl and a methyl group while the hydrogen attached to the imino nitrogen is replaced by a cyano group .
the  ( e )  - stereoisomer of acetamiprid .
any polyamine that contains four amino groups .
the e - isomer of imidacloprid .
the z - isomer of imidacloprid .
a chloropyridine in which only one chlorine is attached to the pyridine ring .
compounds containing a pyridine nucleus substituted with one or more chlorine atoms .
a  nitrile that is cyanamide in which the hydrogens are replaced by a 1 , 3 - thiazolidin - 2 - ylidene group which in turn is substituted by a  ( 6 - chloropyridin - 3 - yl ) methyl group at the ring nitrogen .
the  ( z )  - stereoisomer of thiacloprid .
a clothiadin that has e configuration at the c=n bond of the nitroguanidine moiety .
an n - nitro compound consisting of 2 - nitroguanidine having a  ( 2 - chloro - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 5 - yl ) methyl group at position 1 and a methyl group at position 3 .
an n - nitro compound that is guanidine in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a nitro group .
an oxadiazane that is tetrahydro - n - nitro - 4h - 1 , 3 , 5 - oxadiazin - 4 - imine bearing  ( 2 - chloro - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 5 - yl ) methyl and methyl substituents at positions 3 and 5 respectively .
mixture of 80% avermectin b1a and 20% avermectin b1b .
compounds consisting wholly of chlorine and carbon .
a member of the class of chloroethanes that is ethane in which all the hydrogens are replaced by chloro groups .
an aromatic ether in which the oxygen is attached to two phenyl substituents .
a one - carbon compound in which the carbon is attached by single bonds to three bromine atoms and one hydrogen atom .
a volatile or volatilizable chemical compound utilized for control of pests in buildings ,  soil ,  grain ,  as well as during processing of goods to be imported or exported to prevent transfer of exotic organisms .
a halomethane that is methane in which one or more hydrogens has been replaced by bromine .
a haloalkane that is methane in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens have been replaced by a halogen atom / halogen atoms .
a halomethane that is methane in which one or more hydrogens has been replaced by fluorine .
a member of the class of  iodomethanes that is methane in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by iodine .
a halomethane that is methane in which one or more hydrogens has been replaced by iodine .
a c - nitro compound that is nitromethane in which all three hydrogens are replaced by chlorines .
a pyridinecarboxamide that is  nicotinamide substituted by a trifluoromethyl group at position 4 and a cyanomethyl group at the carbamoyl nitrogen atom .
a member of the class of 1 , 2 , 4 - triazines that is 4 , 5 - dihydro - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazin - 3 ( 2h )  - one substituted by a methyl group at position 6 and a  ( pyridin - 3 - ylmethylidene ) amino group at position 4 .
any chemical substance that inhibits the life - cycle of an organism .
an organofluorine compound consisting of cyclopropanecarboxylic acid having a 2 - chloro - 3 , 3 , 3 - trifluoroprop - 1 - en - 1 - yl group at the 3 - position and two methyl groups at the 2 - position .
a monocarboxylic acid consisting of isovaleric acid having a 4 - chlorophenyl group at the 2 - position .
a hydroxytoluene that is o - cresol carrying nitro substituents at positions 4 and 6 .
members of the class of  nitrophenol carrying two nitro substituents .
a cyclopropanecarboxylate ester obtained by formal condensation between  2 , 2 , 3 , 3 - tetramethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid and cyano ( 3 - phenoxyphenyl ) methanol .
a monocarboxylic acid consisting of cyclopropanecarboxylic acid having four methyl substituents .
a nitrophenol that is phenol carrying a single nitro substituent at unspecified position .
a n - acylurea that is n - carbamoyl - 2 , 6 - difluorobenzamide substituted by a 3 , 5 - dichloro - 2 , 4 - difluorophenyl group at the terminal nitrogen atom .
any compound with a 1 , 2 , 4 - triazine skeleton ,  in which nitrogen atoms replace carbon at positions 1 ,  2 and 4 of the core benzene ring structure .
an n - acylurea that is urea in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a benzoyl group .
any saturated fatty acid with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
any saturated fatty acid lacking a side - chain .
a perfluoroalkanesulfonic acid that is octane - 1 - sulfonic acid in which all seventeen of the hydrogens that are attached to carbons hvae been replaced by fluorines .
a monocarboxylic acid that is perfluorinated butyric acid .
a  ketone that is acetone in which all the methyl hydrogens are replaced by fluoro groups .
a chromanol with a chroman - 6 - ol skeleton that is substituted at position 2 by a saturated or triply - unsaturated hydrocarbon chain consisting of three isoprenoid units .
a role played by a fluorescent molecular entity used to study the microscopic environment by fluorescence spectroscopy .
compounds containing a group =n2 attached to a single carbon atom .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
any azaalkane in which two or more carbons in the chain are replaced by nitrogen .
a  butadiene with unsaturation at positions 1 and 3 .
a chlorohydrocarbon carrying one or more chloro groups at unspecified positions .
a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is a member of the drug class known as statins ,  used primarily for lowering blood cholesterol and for preventing cardiovascular diseases .
a n -  [ 4 - cyano - 3 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ]  - 3 -  [  ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) sulfonyl ]  - 2 - hydroxy - 2 - methylpropanamide that is the  ( r )  - enantiomer of bicalutamide .
a beta - diketone that is methane in which two of the hydrogens are substituted by feruloyl groups .
a n - sulfonylurea in which the sulfonyl group is attached to a 2 -  ( methoxycarbonyl ) phenyl group while a  ( 4 - methoxy - 6 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl group replaces one of the amino hydrogens of the remaining urea group .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of phosphoric acid in which one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
an ether that is the methyl ether derivative of ethanol .
a mononitrotoluene carrying a nitro group at position 3 .
a member of the class of triazoles that is 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole substituted by an amino group at position 3 .
an  acetate ester obtained by the formal condensation of acetic acid with propanol .
a member of the class of 2 , 6 - diaminopurines that is 9h - purine in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 6 are replaced by amino groups .
a  triazolopyrazine that exhibits  hypoglycemic activity .
a phosphorodiamide that is 1 , 3 , 2 - oxazaphosphinan - 2 - amine 2 - oxide substituted by two 2 - chloroethyl groups at the amino nitrogen atom .
a fatty acid ester that is mevastatin carrying an additional methyl group on the carbobicyclic skeleton .
a carboxylic ester obtained by formal condensation between 3 -  ( 2 , 2 - dichloroethenyl )  - 2 , 2 - dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid and  ( 4 - fluoro - 3 - phenoxyphenyl )  ( hydroxy ) acetonitrile .
a carboxylic ester obtained by formal condensation between 3 -  ( 2 - chloro - 3 , 3 , 3 - trifluoroprop - 1 - en - 1 - yl )  - 2 , 2 - dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid and cyano ( 3 - phenoxyphenyl ) methanol .
a member of the class of aminopyrimidine that is n - phenylpyrimidin - 2 - amine carrying additional cyclopropyl and methyl substituents at positions 4 and 6 respectively .
l - canavanine in zwitterionic form .
an aryloxypyrimidine having a 4 , 6 - diphenoxypyrimidine  skeleton in which one of the phenyl rings is cyano - substituted at c - 2 and the other carries a 2 - methoxy - 1 -  ( methoxycarbonyl ) vinyl substituent ,  also at c - 2 .
a thioester that is a synthetic analogue of thiamine obtained by acylative cleavage of the thiazole ring and o - phospohorylation .
the 1h - tautomer of benzimidazole .
the simplest member of the class of benzophenones ,  being formaldehyde in which both hydrogens are replaced by phenyl groups .
a member of the class of phenylureas that is urea in which one of the hydrogens of each amino group is replaced by a phenyl group .
an enal consisting of propene having a formyl group at the 1 - position .
a glucopyranose having d - configuration .
a straight - chain alkane with 10 carbon atoms .
a fluorinated steroid that is 9 - fluoropregna - 1 , 4 - diene substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 11 ,  17 and 21 ,  a methyl group at position 16 and oxo groups at positions 3 and 20 .
a tertiary amine oxide that is the n - oxide of n , n - dimethyldecan - 1 - amine .
an ortho - fused bicyclic arene comprising of benzene and cyclopentene rings .
an olefinic compound that is trans - hex - 3 - ene in which the hydrogens at positions 3 and 4 have been replaced by p - hydroxyphenyl groups .
a hexose that has d - configuration at position 5 .
an anthracycline cation resulting from the protonation of the amino group of 4' - epidoxorubicin .
a dinitrophenol having the nitro groups at the 2 -  and 4 - positions .
an optically active form of lactic acid having  ( r )  - configuration .
a  methoxybenzoic acid that is the methyl ether of salicylic acid .
an optically active form of lactic acid having  ( s )  - configuration .
an alkane comprising of two carbon atoms .
an erythromycin that consists of erythronolide a having 2 , 6 - dideoxy - 3 - c - methyl - 3 - o - methyl - alpha - l - ribo - hexopyranosyl and 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 -  ( dimethylamino )  - beta - d - xylo - hexopyranosyl residues attahced at positions 4 and 6 respectively .
a labdane diterpenoid isolated from the indian coleus plant .
an aromatic ketone in which the two substituents on the carbonyl c atom are phenyl and ethyl .
a 1 - phenylpropan - 2 - amine that has r configuration .
a gamma - amino acid that is cyclohexane substituted at position 1 by aminomethyl and carboxymethyl groups .
an aminocarboxamidine ,  the parent compound of the guanidines .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the amino group of cyclohexylamine .
a straight - chain alkane with seven carbon atoms .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and iodine atoms .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of dihydrogenphosphate .
a primary aliphatic amine that is butane substituted by an amino group at position 1 .
an organic cation that is phenothiazin - 5 - ium substituted by dimethylamino groups at positions 3 and 7 .
a member of the class of azetidines that is  ( 2s )  - azetidine 2 - carboxylic acid in which the carboxylic acid has been converted to the amide corresponding to formal condensation with 4 -  ( aminomethyl ) benzenecarboximidamide and in which the hydrogen attached to the azetidine nitrogen is replaced by a  ( 2r )  - 2 - cyclohexyl - 2 -  [  ( carboxymethyl ) amino ] acetyl group .
an iminium ion obtained by dimethylation of the imino group of 4 - { [ 4 -  ( dimethylamino ) phenyl ]  ( phenyl ) methylene}cyclohexa - 2 , 5 - dien - 1 - imine .
a methylthio - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is 2 -  ( methylsulfanyl )  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine substituted by a tert - butylamino and an ethylamino group at positions 2 and 4 respectively .
a naphthalenesulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked to position 2 of the naphthalene ring .
a member of the class of ureas that is urea substituted by a methyl group at one of the nitrogen atoms .
a member of the class of ureas that is urea in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a 1 - phenylpropan - 2 - amine that has s configuration .
a 6 - methoxy - 11 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 , 9 , 10 , 10a - hexahydro - 2h - 10 , 4a -  ( epiminoethano ) phenanthrene in which the sterocenters at positions 4a ,  10 and 10a have s - configuration .
a 2 - acetyl - 1 - alkyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine betaine which has hexadecyl as the alkyl group .
an alkyl alcohol that is pentane in which a hydrogen of one of the methyl groups is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a member of the class of  phenothiazines that is 10h - phenothiazine substituted by an acetyl group at position 2 and a 3 -  ( dimethylamino ) propyl group at position 10 .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of a single pentavalent phosphorus covalently bound via single bonds to a single hydrogen and two hydroxy groups and via a double bond to an oxygen .
a trivalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of all three protons from phosphorous acid .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - diclofop - methyl .
a branched ,  short - chain fatty acid composed of propanoic acid having two methyl substituents at the 2 - position .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from diphosphoric acid .
a sulfonamide in which the sulfamoyl functional group is attached to aniline at the 4 - position .
an amino acid consisting of carbamic acid having an n - methyl substituent .
an l - valine derivative that is l - valinamide in which alpha - amino group has been acylated by a  [  ( 2 - isopropyl - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl ) methyl ] methylcarbamoyl group and in which a hydrogen of the carboxamide amino group has been replaced by a  ( 2r , 4s , 5s )  - 4 - hydroxy - 1 , 6 - diphenyl - 5 - { [  ( 1 , 3 - thiazol - 5 - ylmethoxy ) carbonyl ] amino}hexan - 2 - yl group .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 2 - methylbutanoic acid .
a c7 ,  straight - chain fatty acid that contributes to the odour of some rancid oils .
a tetracyclic diterpenoid isolated originally from the bark of the pacific yew tree ,  taxus brevifolia .
a tertiary alcohol alcohol that is isobutane substituted by a hydroxy group at position 2 .
an aminopyrimidine antibiotic whose structure consists of pyrimidine 2 , 4 - diamine and 1 , 2 , 3 - trimethoxybenzene moieties linked by a methylene bridge .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles carrying a 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl substituent at position 2 .
an organic heterobicyclic compound that is a fusion product between benzene and thiazole .
a trinitrotoluene having the nitro groups at positions 2 ,  4 and 6 .
a member of the class of  triazoles that is propan - 2 - ol substituted at position 1 and 3 by 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl groups and at position 2 by a 2 , 4 - difluorophenyl group .
a c - nitro compound comprising phenol having three nitro substtituents at the 2 -  ,  4 -  and 6 - positions .
a member of the class of phenols that is 4 - aminophenol in which one of the hydrogens attached to the amino group has been replaced by an acetyl group .
an amino aldehyde that is l - tyrosine in which the carboxy group has undergone formal redution to give the corrresponding aldehyde
a member of the class of thioureas that is thiourea in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a phenyl group .
a  sapogenin that is spirostan which is substituted by a hydroxy group at the 3beta position ,  contains a double bond at the 5 - 6 position ,  and has r -  configuration at position 25 .
a straight - chain alkane with 11 carbon atoms .
a nucleobase analogue that is uracil in which the hydrogen at position 5 is replaced by fluorine .
a tertiary alcohol that is butan - 1 - ol substituted by two phenyl groups at position 1 and a piperidin - 1 - yl group at position 4 .
an aromatic amine containing two phenyl substituents .
the  (  -  )  - steroisomer of alpha - tocopherol .
a vanadium oxoanion that is a trianion with formula vo4 in which the vanadium is in the  + 5 oxidation state and is attached to four oxygen atoms .
an organic disulfide that results from the formal oxidative dimerisation of n , n - diethyldithiocarbamic acid .
a compound that contains two ketone functionalities .
an alkyl alcohol that is propan - 1 - ol substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
fibrous incombustible mineral composed of magnesium and calcium silicates with or without other elements .
in general ,  a mineral is a chemical substance that is normally crystalline formed and has been formed as a result of geological processes .
any  carboxylic ester derivative of an amino acid .
a compound derived from a hydrocarbon by replacing one or more hydrogen atoms with fluorine atoms .
compounds based on a fused 1 , 2 -  or 1 , 3 - oxazole and benzene bicyclic ring skeleton .
a tetracyclic diterpenoid that is paclitaxel with the n - benzyloxycarbonyl group replaced by n - tert - butoxycarbonyl ,  and the acetoxy group at position 10 replaced by a hydroxy group .
any molecule that contains two amino - acid residues connected by peptide linkages .
any ether that contains more than one ether linkage .
a polyether that is the dimethyl ether derivative of diethylene glycol .
a polyether in which the number of ether linkages is 2 .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
a  hydroxyether that is the  ethyl ether derivative of ethylene glycol .
any ether carrying a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
a hydroxyether that is ethanol substituted by a methoxy group at position 2 .
the amino acid ester derivative obtained the formal condensation of an alpha - amino acid with an alcohol .
a compound consisting of a peptide with attached lipid .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of oxalic acid .
any member of the class of dioxanes that is a cyclohexane in which two carbon atoms are replaced by oxygen atoms .
a family of aromatic fatty amides produced as secondary metabolites by chilli peppers .
any organic heteromonocyclic compoundthat is oxane or its substituted derivatives .
compounds containing an anthracene skeleton .
a ribose in which the chiral carbon atom furthest away from the aldehyde group  ( c4' )  has the same configuration as in l - glyceraldehyde .
a cyclic ribose having a 5 - membered tetrahydrofuran ring ;  the predominant  ( c3' - endo )  form of the two cyclic structures  ( the other is the  \ "c2' - endo \ " form ,  having a 6 - membered ring )  adopted by ribose in aqueous solution .
a ribofuranose having d - configuration .
a dioxane with oxygen atoms at positions 1 and 4 .
a member of the class of  bromomethanes that is methane substituted by two bromo groups .
a member of the class of pentachlorobenzenes that is benzene in which five of the hydrogens are replaced by chlorines .
a pyrimidine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside compound having 5 - bromouracil as the nucleobase .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and bromine atoms .
an ethyl ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of chlorimuron with ethanol .
a monocarboxylic acid consisting of phenylacetic acid having a  ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenyl ) amino group at the 2 - position .
a  chlorobenzoic acid that is 4 - chlorobenzoic acid substituted by a  ( furan - 2 - ylmethyl ) amino and a sulfamoyl group at position 2 and 5 respectively .
a cyclic dicarboxylic anhydride that is the cyclic anhydride of maleic acid .
a dibenzoazepine that is 5h - dibenzo [ b , f ] azepine substituted by a 3 -  ( dimethylamino ) propyl group at the nitrogen atom .
the simplest and least toxic member of the class of chloroethanes ,  that is ethane in which a single hydrogen is substituted by a chlorine .
a monocarboxylic acid amide obtained by the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 4 - chlorobenzoic acid with the amino group of 2 -  [ 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) phenoxy ]  - 2 - methylpropanoic acid .
any carboxylic ester where the carboxylic acid component is acetic acid .
a bromophenol that is phenol in which the hydrogens at positions 2 ,  4 and 6 have been replaced by bromines .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to low - density lipoproteins  ( ldl )  .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to high - density lipoproteins  ( hdl )  .
any ester resulting from the condensation of one or more of the hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
a dibenzoazepine consisting of 10 , 11 - dihydro - 5h - dibenzo [ b , f ] azepine substituted on nitrogen with a 3 -  ( methylamino ) propyl group .
any oxo steroid that has an oxo substituent at position 11 .
any oxo steroid where an oxo substituent is located at position 3 .
a  mancude organic heterotricyclic parent that consists of a seven - membered nitrogen hetrocycle fused with two benzene rings .
a monoterpenoid ,  the main component of citronella oil which gives it its distinctive lemon aroma .
anything used in a scientific experiment to indicate the presence of a substance or quality ,  change in a body ,  etc .
a chemical compound that can be excited by light of a specific wavelength and subsequently transfer energy to a chosen reactant .
a one - carbon compound substituted by 4 bromo groups .
any steroid substituted by at least one carboxy group .
an anthracycline that is the 4' - epi - isomer of doxorubicin .
organic derivatives of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon of an alkyl group .
an alkanethiol is a compound in which a sulfanyl group ,   - sh ,  is attached to an alkyl group .
a 3 - oxo steroid conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a cyclic sulfite ester that is 1 , 5 , 5a , 6 , 9 , 9a - hexahydro - 6 , 9 - methano - 2 , 4 , 3 - benzodioxathiepine 3 - oxide substituted by chloro groups at positions 6 ,  7 ,  8 ,  9 ,  10 and 10 .
any member of the 'superclass' flavonoids whose skeleton is based on 1 - benzopyran with an aryl substituent at position 2 .
an ether in which the oxygen atom is connected to 2 - chloro - 1 , 1 , 2 - trifluoroethyl and difluoromethyl groups .
any oligopeptide that consists of three amino - acid residues connected by peptide linkages .
any primary amide having its amide oxygen replaced by sulfur .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor .
ethers ror' where r has a double bond adjacent to the oxygen of the ether linkage .
an amine rnr'r'' where r has a double bond adjacent to the amine nitrogen .
a compound ,  usually an anti - bacterial agent or a toxin ,  which inhibits the synthesis of a protein .
a family of cyclic heptapeptide hepatotoxins produced by a number of cyanobacteria ,  the most notable of which is microcystis ,  from which the name of the family is derived .
a metabolite from penicillium brefeldianum that exhibits a wide range of antibiotic activity .
polypeptides synthesized by specific strains of bacteria that are lethal against other strains of the same or related species .
a nitrogen oxoacid of formula hno3 in which the nitrogen atom is bonded to a hydroxy group and by equivalent bonds to the remaining two oxygen atoms .
a c - nitro compound with formula c6h ( 6 - n )  ( no2 ) n  ( n can be from 1 up to 6 ,  but is usually 1 ,  2 or 3 )  .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( 2s , 3r )  -  and  ( 2r , 3s )  - epoxiconazole .
a trinitrobenzene in which each of the nitro groups is meta -  to the other two .
anthracyclines are polyketides that have a tetrahydronaphthacenedione ring structure attached by a glycosidic linkage to the amino sugar daunosamine .
a member of the class of  imidazoles and  thiophenes  that is an angiotensin ii receptor antagonist used for the treatment of high blood pressure .
a substance used locally on humans and other animals to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity  ( cf .
an antimicrobial agent that is applied to non - living objects to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity .
a one - carbon compound that is methane in which the hydrogens have been replaced by three chlorine and one fluorine atom .
drugs that bind to but do not activate serotonin receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of serotonin or serotonergic agonists .
the conjugate base of diclofenac .
a substance ,  extract ,  or preparation for diffusing or imparting an agreeable or attractive smell .
an  acetal that is the dimethyl acetal derivative of formaldehyde .
compounds of structure rssr' .
a member of the class of phenylureas that is urea substituted by a 4 - chlorophenyl group and a 3 , 4 - dichlorophenyl group at positions 1 and 3 respectively .
an exogenous or endogenous compound which inhibits serine endopeptidases .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
a solvent with a comparatively high relative permittivity  ( or dielectric constant )  ,  greater than ca .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing =o by =nr ;  thus tautomers of amides .
a carboximidic acid that is the imidic acid tautomer of urea ,  h2nc ( =nh ) oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
the simplest member of the class of methanediols that is methane in which two of the hydrogens have been substituted by hydroxy groups .
a drug used in the treatment of parkinson's disease .
a member of the class of biphenyls that consists of a biphenyl ring system substituted by a tetrazole ring at an unspecified position .
an agent and endogenous substances that antagonize or inhibit the development of new blood vessels .
a local anesthetic that is used to numb the surface of a body part .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid that is pentanoic acid  ( valeric acid )  substituted with a keto group at c - 2 and a methyl group at c - 4 .
a carboximidic acid that is  formic acid in which the carbonyl oxygen is replaced by an imino group .
a thiol in which the sulfanyl group is attached to a phenyl group .
any drug that acts on an alpha - adrenergic receptor .
any of the drugs that act on beta - adrenergic receptors .
esters or salts of methanesulfonic acid .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of aldehyde reductase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .21 )  .
a drug used for its effects on dopamine receptors ,  on the life cycle of dopamine ,  or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons .
a drug that binds to but does not activate dopamine receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists .
a role played by a substance that can react readily with ,  and thereby eliminate ,  radicals .
a metal chloride salt with a li (  +  )  counterion .
a drug that affects the function of fibrin in blood coagulation .
substance which binds to cell receptors normally responding to naturally occurring substances and which produces a response of its own .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
any member of the class of nitroanisoles in which a single nitro group is attached to the anisole ring .
a member of the class of 2 - nitroanisoles that is anisole in which one of the hydrogens ortho to the methoxy group is replaced by a nitro group .
a monomethoxybenzene carrying one or more nitro substituents .
any member of the class of mononitroanisoles in which the nitro group is situated ortho to the methoxy group .
silicate minerals that contain aluminium ,  silicon ,  and oxygen ,  together with other ions .
the organoarsenic compound that is arsenic acid substituted on the central arsenic atom with two methyl groups .
an ethylenediamine derivative that is ethane - 1 , 2 - diamine in which one hydrogen attached to each of the nitrogens is sutstituted by a 1 - hydroxybutan - 2 - yl group  ( s , s - configuration )  .
semisynthetic derivative of erythromycin a .
any fatty acid containing a ring composed of atoms including at least one heteroatom .
naphthalenes in which one or more alkyloxy groups are bonded to a naphthalene ring system .
any alkyloxynaphthalene bearing one or more methoxy substituents .
any member of the class of  naphthalenes carrying two methyl groups at unspecified positions .
any drug that binds to but does not activate cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists .
a drug that binds to but does not activate muscarinic cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of endogenous acetylcholine or exogenous agonists .
an antagonist at the nicotinic cholinergic receptor .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains a n atom and one s atom .
any of several wide - spectrum macrolide antibiotics obtained from actinomycete saccharopolyspora erythraea  ( formerly known as streptomyces erythraeus )  .
any l - alpha - amino acid carrying an n - acyl substituent .
a major geometrical isomer of roxithromycin .
a branched - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of isovaleric acid ;  reported to improve ruminal fermentation and feed digestion in cattle .
a member of the class of propanals that is propanal substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
compounds containing single  - n=n -  group .
any  azo compound containing two  - n=n -  groups .
any member of the class of mononitroanisoles in which the nitro group is situated para to the methoxy group .
a chemical substance which inhibits the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a compound that inhibits the action of prostaglandins .
a carboximidic acid that is  acetic acid in which the carbonyl oxygen is replaced by an imino group .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid that is estradiol substituted by a ethynyl group at position 17 .
a hydrochloride obtained by combining thiamine chloride with one molar equivalent of hydrochloric acid .
a drug that acts principally at one or more sites within the peripheral neuroeffector systems ,  the autonomic system ,  and motor nerve - skeletal system .
a drug designed to prevent leukotriene synthesis or activity by blocking binding at the receptor level .
a drug used to treat asthma .
a hydroxyphenylalanine carrying hydroxy substituents at positions 3 and 4 of the benzene ring .
the d - enantiomer of dopa .
a phenylpropanoid formally derived from guaiacol with an allyl chain substituted para to the hydroxy group .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that inhibits h (  +  )  / k (  +  )  - exchanging atpase ,  ec 3 .6 .3 .10 .
one of various classes of drugs with different action mechanisms used to treat or ameliorate peptic ulcer or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract .
any inhibitor of cholesterylester transfer protein  ( cetp )  ,  which transfers cholesterol from high density lipoproteins  ( hdl ,  the 'good' cholesterol - containing particles )  to low or very low density lipoproteins  ( ldl or vldl ,  the 'bad' cholesterol - containing particles )  .
an organic compound that has a tetrahydronaphthacenedione ring structure attached by a glycosidic linkage to the amino sugar daunosamine and which exhibits antibiotic activity .
a chemical substance that prevents or reduces the probability of conception .
an alpha - amino acid ester that is the methyl ester of l - phenylalanine .
a 17 - oxo steroid that is androsta - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 17 - dione in which the hydrogens at position 6 are replaced by a double bond to a methylene group .
a 1 , 4 - benzodiazepinone that is 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2h - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepin - 2 - one substituted by a chloro group at position 7 ,  a methyl group at position 1 and a phenyl group at position 5 .
a member of the class of indole - 3 - acetic acids that is indole - 3 - acetic acid in which the indole ring is substituted at positions 1 ,  2 and 5 by p - chlorobenzoyl ,  methyl ,  and methoxy groups ,  respectively .
a macrolide consisting of a 14 - membered bicyclic lactone attached to the rare 2 - thiazolidinone moiety .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by deprotonation of perchloric acid .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by deprotonation of chloric acid .
a cysteine derivative that is the s -  ( 2 - aminoethyl )  analogue of l - cysteine ;  reported to have cytotoxic effects .
a fatty acid ester that is the carboxylic ester obtained by the formal condensation of a fatty acid with methanol .
an arsenic oxoacid consisting of three hydroxy groups attached to a central arsenic atom .
a compound of zinc and chloride ions in the ratio 1:2 .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - fenarimol .
a chlorobenzophenone that is  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  ( phenyl ) methanone substituted by a  [ 2 - methyl - 1 - oxo - 1 -  ( propan - 2 - yloxy ) propan - 2 - yl ] oxy group at position 1 on the phenyl ring .
an isomer of pinene with an exocyclic double bond .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a carbamate ester that is the o - ethyl carbamate of 2 -  ( 4 - phenoxyphenoxy ) ethylamine .
a chlorophenoxyacetic acid that is  ( 4 - chlorophenoxy ) acetic acid substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
a member of the class of n - nitrosoureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by methyl and nitroso groups .
an agent that binds to and activates excitatory amino acid receptors .
any hormone that is responsible for controlling sexual characteristics and reproductive function .
a sex hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of masculine characteristics in vertebrates by binding to androgen receptors .
a hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of female sex characteristics in mammals by binding to oestrogen receptors .
a dialkyl ketone with butyl and ethyl as the two alkyl groups .
a carboxylic ester obtained by formal condensation between 2 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 3 - methylbutyric acid and cyano ( 3 - phenoxyphenyl ) methanol .
a drug which causes a narrowing of the lumen of a bronchus or bronchiole .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - fenpropimorph .
a 4 -  [ 3 -  ( 4 - tert - butylphenyl )  - 2 - methylpropyl ]  - 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholine in which the methyl substituents on the morpholine ring are in a cis relationship to each other and in which the remaining stereocentre has s configuration .
a 4 -  [ 3 -  ( 4 - tert - butylphenyl )  - 2 - methylpropyl ]  - 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholine in which the methyl substituents on the morpholine ring are in a cis relationship to each other and in which the remaining stereocentre has r configuration .
a member of the class of morpholines that is 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholine in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a 3 -  ( p - tert - butylphenyl )  - 2 - methylpropyl group .
a dithiocarbamate salt that is the iron ( iii )  salt of dimethyldithiocarbamic acid .
any anion formed by loss of a proton from a steroid acid .
a drug that softens ,  separates ,  and causes desquamation of the cornified epithelium or horny layer of skin .
a drug used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the activity of cytochrome p450 involved in catalysis of organic substances .
a substance that can be converted into a vitamin by animal tissues .
a trihydroxyflavanone that is flavanone substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 5 ,  6 and 4' .
a retinoid consisting of 3 , 7 - dimethylnona - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - tetraen - 1 - ol substituted at position 9 by a 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - en - 1 - yl group  ( geometry of the four exocyclic double bonds is not specified )  .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a phosphoric diester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .4 .
a drug used to reverse the inactivation of cholinesterase caused by organophosphates or sulfonates .
compound which restore enzymatic activity by removing an inhibitory group bound to the reactive site of the enzyme .
any protective agent counteracting or neutralizing the action of poisons .
drug that acts on blood and blood - forming organs and those that affect the hemostatic system .
an agent that prevents blood clotting .
heterocyclic compound with sulfur and nitrogen in the ring .
heterocyclic compound of a ring with sulfur and two nitrogen atoms fused to a benzene ring .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by metabolic processes before becoming the pharmacologically active drug for which it is a prodrug .
synthetic or natural substance which is given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent .
a substance that does not act as agonist or antagonist but does affect the gamma - aminobutyric acid receptor - ionophore complex .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits the bacterial enzymes of the dna topoisomerases ,  type i class  ( ec 5 .99 .1 .2 )  that catalyze atp - independent breakage of one of the two strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strand through the break ,  and rejoining of the broken strand .
an organic heterotetracyclic compound that has a furonaphthodioxole skeleton bearing a 3 , 4 , 5 - trimethoxyphenyl substituent .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a univalent organyl group obtained by cleaving the bond from c - 2 to the side chain of a proteinogenic amino - acid .
any of the macrolides obtained as fermentation products from the bacterium streptomyces avermitilis and consisting of a 16 - membered macrocyclic backbone that is fused both benzofuran and spiroketal functions and contains a disaccharide substituent .
a carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of the hydroxy group of an alcohol or phenol with the carboxy group of cyclopropanecarboxylic acid or its substituted derivatives .
any cholinergic antagonist that inhibits the actions of the parasympathetic nervous system .
an ec 1 .6 .5 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on nadh or nadph with a quinone or similar as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of nad ( p ) h dehydrogenase  ( quinone )  ,  ec 1 .6 .5 .2 .
any steroid based on a cholestane skeleton and its derivatives .
any steroid based on an  androstane skeleton and its derivatives .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to lipoproteins .
a role played by a molecular entity used to study the microscopic environment .
an acid or base which exhibits a colour change on neutralization by the basic or acidic titrant at or near the equivalence point of a titration .
anything used in a scientific experiment that gives a visual change to indicate the presence of a substance or quality ,  change in a body ,  etc .
a colour indicator that is colourless on one side of the transition interval .
a methylpyridine carrying a methyl substituent at position 2 .
a drug or agent which antagonizes or impairs any mechanism leading to blood platelet aggregation ,  whether during the phases of activation and shape change or following the dense - granule release reaction and stimulation of the prostaglandin - thromboxane system .
a primary arylamine that is naphthalene substituted by an amino group at unspecified position .
a naphthylamine that is naphthalene substituted by an amino group at position 1 .
a monoterpenoid that is oct - 6 - ene substituted by a hydroxy group at position 1 and methyl groups at positions 3 and 7 .
a primary amine formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an aryl group .
any carboxylic ester where the carboxylic acid component is butyric acid .
a group derived from a haloalkane by removal of a hydrogen atom .
any compound containing the thiocarbonyl group ,  c=s .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of  dihydropteroate synthase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .15 )  ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the formation of dihydropteroate from p - aminobenzoic acid and dihydropteridine - hydroxymethyl - pyrophosphate .
an agent that produces a soft formed stool ,  and relaxes and loosens the bowels ,  typically used over a protracted period ,  to relieve constipation .
substance that sweeten food ,  beverages ,  medications ,  etc .
an agent that inhibits cell membrane glycoproteins that are selectively permeable to potassium ions .
compounds containing a bipyridine group .
agent that dilates the pupil .
drug used to cause constriction of the blood vessels .
a gamma - lactone that consists of a 2 - furanone skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a phenolate anion that is the conjugate base of catechol .
an organic anion arising from deprotonation of the oh function of a phenol compound .
a phenolate anion that is the conjugate base of phenol obtained by deprotonation of the oh group .
a salt of the organic compound tartaric acid .
an agent ,  with unique chemical structure and biochemical requirements ,  which generates nitric oxide .
the acetate ester of isobutanol .
any aliphatic alcohol in which the carbon chain contains one or more olefinic bonds .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
the d isomer of n - acetylglucosamine .
a cyclooxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of cyclooxygenase 2 .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - fipronil .
a cyclooxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of cyclooxygenase 1 .
a nitroarene that is  naphthalene substituted by at least one nitro group .
a nitronaphthalene carrying a single nitro group at unspecified position .
a mononitronaphthalene carrying a nitro group at position 2 .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of dimethylallyltranstransferase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .1 )  .
an agent that inhibits bone resorption and / or favor bone mineralization and bone regeneration .
a retinoic acid in which the exocyclic double bonds have 7e , 9z , 11e , 13e geometry .
a member of the class of  1 - benzofurans used for the treatment of  cardiac arrhythmias .
a drug used to treat hyperthyroidism by reducing the excessive production of thyroid hormones .
an ec 1 .5 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of dihydrofolate reductase  ( ec 1 .5 .1 .3 )  .
a reagent with two reactive groups ,  usually at opposite ends of the molecule ,  that are capable of reacting with and thereby forming bridges between macromolecules ,  principally side chains of amino acids in proteins ,  allowing the locations of naturally reactive areas within the proteins to be identified .
a drug used to treat trichomonas infections .
an organic calcium salt composed of calcium cations and atorvastatin anions in a 1:2 ratio .
a substance used either in the prevention or facilitation of pregnancy .
a chemical substance that interrupts pregnancy after implantation .
a compound in which monosaccharide units are joined by glycosidic linkages .
a product in capsule ,  tablet or liquid form that provide essential nutrients ,  such as a vitamin ,  an essential mineral ,  a protein ,  an herb ,  or similar nutritional substance .
a substance that possess antiestrogenic actions but can also produce estrogenic effects as well .
a compound that interacts with progesterone receptors in target tissues to bring about effects similar to those of progesterone .
a drug used to treat psoriasis .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolysing )  ,  ec 5 .99 .1 .3  ( also known as topoisomerase ii and as dna gyrase )  ,  which catalyses atp - dependent breakage of both strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strands through the breaks ,  and rejoining of the broken strands .
any 1 - benzopyran with an aryl substituent at position 3 .
a drug which increases appetite .
an agent which regulates the physiologic mechanisms that control the appetite and food intake .
a carboxylic ester of pivalic acid .
an ec 1 .14 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating of 1 atom of oxygen ,  with reduced flavin or flavoprotein as one donor )  inhibitor which interferes with the action of aromatase  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .14 )  and so reduces production of estrogenic steroid hormones .
a nanometre sized object .
a nanosized spherical or capsule - shaped structure .
a steroid which is substituted with one or more fluorine atoms in any position .
a compound which inhibits or antagonises the biosynthesis or actions of estrogens .
a pyridazinone that is pyridazin - 3 ( 2h )  - one which is substituted at positions 2 ,  4 ,  and 5 by m -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ,  chloro ,  and methylamino groups ,  respectively .
a compound which inhibits or antagonizes the biosynthesis or actions of mineralocorticoids ,  a class of steroid hormones characterised by their similarity to aldosterone and their influence on salt and water balance .
biologically active substance whose activity affects or plays a role in the functioning of the immune system .
a substance that augments ,  stimulates ,  activates ,  potentiates ,  or modulates the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level .
a cardiovascular drug that prevents atherogenesis ,  the accumulation of lipid - containing plaques on the innermost layers of the arteries .
a drug used to treat allergic reactions .
a natural or synthetic analogue of the hormones secreted by the adrenal gland .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a compound derived from an arene by replacing a hydrogen atom with a halogen atom .
a role played by a chemical compound to induce direct or indirect dna damage .
a role played by a chemical compound which is known to  induce a process of carcinogenesis  by corrupting  normal cellular pathways ,  leading to the acquistion of tumoral capabilities .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a role played by a chemical compound  in biological systems with adverse consequences in embryo developments ,  leading to birth defects ,  embryo death or altered development ,  growth retardation and functional defect .
a role played by a chemical compound exihibiting itself through the ability to induce damage to the liver in animals .
a role played by a chemical compound exihibiting itself through the ability to induce damage to the kidney in animals .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
any compound used for the purpose of preserving biological tissues from decay in such a way as to allow for the preparation of thin ,  stained sections for subsequent histological study .
an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase ,  ec 2 .7 .1 .137 ,  a family of related enzymes capable of phosphorylating the 3 position hydroxy group of the inositol ring of a phosphatidylinositol .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of lipid kinases .
a drug used to prevent nausea or vomiting .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of non - specific serine / threonine protein kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .1 )  ,  a kinase enzyme involved in phosphorylation of hydroxy group of serine or threonine .
an agent that modulates the physiologic angiogenesis process .
compounds containing an aziridine ring that contains a quaternary nitrogen atom .
a compound that specifically inhibits the reuptake of serotonin in the brain .
arsonic acid and its as - hydrocarbyl derivatives .
systems consisting of two or more molecular entities held together by non - covalent interactions .
a racemate that is the butyl ester of fluazifop .
a thiadiazolidine in which the 1 , 3 - thiazolidine ring is substituted by two oxo groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an organyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
compounds containing a ferrocene skeleton .
a cyclic compound containing nine or more atoms as part of the cyclic system .
a dopaminergic agent that blocks the transport of dopamine into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals .
an  organosulfonic acid that is propane - 1 - sulfonic acid substituted by an acetylamino group at position 3 .
a nanoparticle consisting of titanium dioxide .
a chemical substance which binds to specific hormone receptors activating the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a drug that modulates the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a compound that inhibits the growth of marine organisms .
any member of the class of nitrates resulting from the esterification of nitric acid with an alcohol .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
a c - nitro compound that is a hydrocarbon in which one or more of the hydrogens has been replaced by nitro groups .
a nitrohydrocarbon that consists of an arene skeleton substituted by one or more nitro groups at unspecified positions .
the simplest member of the class of  monofluorobenzenes that is benzene carrying a single fluoro substituent .
an  organic molecule that is electrically neutral carrying a positive and a negative charge in one of its major canonical descriptions .
an agent that suppresses cough .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - fluoxetine .
a fluorescent dye used to stain biological specimens .
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement and their substitution derivatives .
compounds containing a tetracene skeleton .
compounds of general formula rr'nc ( =s ) nr''r''' .
a compound of general formula rc ( =o ) sr' .
quinones containing an acene fused ring system .
a diester is a compound containing two ester groups .
a dinitrile is a compound containing two nitrile groups .
a haloethene in which only one of the hydrogen atoms in ethene is replaced by a halogen atom .
a compound derived from ethene by replacing one or more hydrogen atoms with halogen atoms .
a vinyl - substituted arene .
a compound derived from an alkene by replacing a hydrogen atom with a bromine atom .
sulfate salts where the cation is a metal ion .
a macromolecule composed of units connected by imino  (  - nr -  )  linkages .
compounds based on a fused triazine and benzene ring skeleton .
a drug used to produce muscle relaxation  ( excepting neuromuscular blocking agents )  .
a drug used for its actions on skeletal muscle .
a drug that binds to and activates gamma - aminobutyric acid receptors .
a substance ,  such as agonists ,  antagonists ,  degradation or uptake inhibitors ,  depleters ,  precursors ,  and modulators of receptor function ,  used for its pharmacological actions on gabaergic systems .
any member of the class of nitrobenzenes that consists of a benzene ring substituted by two nitro groups .
a dinitrobenzene that is benzene disubstituted at positions 1 and 3 with nitro groups .
a dinitrobenzene carrying nitro groups at positions 1 and 4 .
a benzene substituted with two amino groups .
a phenylenediamine in which the amino functions are at positions 1 and 4 of the benzene nucleus .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
a hormone antagonist that blocks endothelin receptors .
cyclopropane and its derivatives formed by substitution .
an anionic coordination entity where halido ligands are coordinated to a metal centre .
a halometallate anion where all of the ligands coordinated to the metal atom are halido ligands .
an anionic coordination entity where fluorido ligands are coordinated to a metal centre .
an anionic coordination entity where all of the ligands coordinated to the metal atom are fluorido ligands .
a salt where the anion is a halometallate anion .
a salt where the anion is a perhalometallate anion .
a salt where the anion is a perfluorometallate anion .
a salt where the anion is an fluorometallate anion .
compounds based on a fused 1 , 2 - oxazole and benzene bicyclic ring skeleton ,  with the o atom positioned adjacent to one of the positions of ring fusion .
compounds based on a fused 1 , 2 - oxazole and benzene bicyclic ring skeleton .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with the amino group of an amino acid .
compounds containing a biotin  ( 5 -  [  ( 3as , 4s , 6ar )  - 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazol - 4 - yl ] pentanoic acid )  skeleton .
any compound containing two aryl groups connected by a single c atom .
any aromatic ether that consists of a benzene skeleton substituted with one or more methoxy groups .
boranes containing only two b atoms ,  linked either directly by a b - b bond or via hydrogen bridging atoms .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated aldehyde of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - ch=o in which the aldehydic c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated carboxylic ester of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) or ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the ester c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
an aldehyde of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - ch=o or rc#c - ch=o in which the aldehydic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) r ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ketonic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
a carboxylic ester of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) or ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) or ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ester c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
a monocarboxylic amide of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) nr ( 4 ) r ( 5 )   or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) nr ( 2 ) r ( 3 )  in which the amide c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated carboxylic acid amide of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) nr ( 4 ) r ( 5 )  in which the amide c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a compound containing both ketone and nitrile functionalities .
a ketonitrile where the ketone and nitrile functionalities are on adjacent atoms .
a methyl phenyl ( piperidin - 2 - yl ) acetate in which both stereocentres have s configuration .
a methyl phenyl ( piperidin - 2 - yl ) acetate in which both stereocentres have r configuration .
a ketone of formula rc ( =o ) ch3  ( r = / = h )  .
a member of the class of imines that is benzophenone imine carrying two dimethylamino substituents at positions 4 and 4' .
compounds based upon an indolo [ 2 , 3 - a ] carbazole skeleton .
amidines with the general formula r ( 1 ) n=chnr ( 2 ) r ( 3 )   ( r ( 1 )  ,  r ( 2 )  ,  r ( 3 )  can be h )  .
a nitrile that is hydrogen cyanide in which the hydrogen has been replaced by a propyl group .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of methanol .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of ethanol .
the ion formed by protonating nitrogen in pyrrolidine .
a member of the class of ethanolamines that is aminoethanol in which the hydrogens of the amino group are replaced by ethyl groups .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any molecule or ion capable of binding to a central metal atom to form coordination complexes .
a  chemical role played by the molecular entity or part thereof in a photochemical process .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
an organosulfur compound with the general formula r - n=c=s .
a para - terphenyl that consists of benzene attached to two phenyl units at positions 1 and 4 respectively .
any flavonol carrying a 7 - hydroxy substituent .
a chemical substance that encourages a cell to commence cell division ,  triggering mitosis .
a formate ester resulting from the formal condensation of formic acid with ethanol .
an ester of formic acid .
an ortho - fused compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one heteroatom .
a compound with the general formula r2c=o  ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group .
an oxyketone with the general formula r2c ( =o )   ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group and the oxy and carbonyl groups are bonded to the same carbon atom .
an ec 3 .2 .*  ( glycosylase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any glycosidase  ( i .e .
an antiviral drug targeted at influenza viruses .
a polymeric complex of manganese with the ethylene bis ( dithiocarbamate )  anionic ligand .
a polymeric complex of zinc with the ethylene bis ( dithiocarbamate )  anionic ligand .
a diterpenoid with a tetracyclic skeleton .
a glycerol ether having at least one alkyl substituent on oxygen .
a leptomycin having a  ( 2e , 10e , 12e , 16z , 18e )  - double bond configuration as well as an ethyl substituent at position 17 .
a complex ,  very long chain ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid whose core structure comprises 8 - oxononadeca - 2 , 10 , 12 , 16 , 18 - pentaenoic acid having methyl substituents at positions 3 ,  5 ,  7 ,  9 ,  11 and 15 and a 3 , 6 - dihydropyran - 6 - one - 2 - yl group at position 19 .
a drug that blocks the action of proteasomes ,  cellular complexes that break down proteins .
an organic group that consists of a closed ring .
a nanoparticle that contains no carbon .
a metal oxide containing tin and oxygen .
a tin oxide compound consisting of tin ( iv )  covalently bound to two oxygen atoms .
the biological role played by a material entity when bound by a receptor of the adaptive immune system .
diazoline compounds having the nitrogen atoms at the 1 -  and 3 - positions and a double bond at an unspecified position .
an antagonist at the a2a receptor .
a five - membered organic heteromonocyclic compound containing two nitrogen atoms and a double bond .
a biphenyl compound containing between 2 and 10 chlorine atoms attached to the two benzene rings .
a norterpene that is an acyclic saturated hydrocarbon derived from phytane by loss of its c - 16 terminal methyl group .
any hydrocarbon formed by loss of a methyl group from a terpene .
a compound arising from loss of part of the carotene skeleton  ( excluding retinoids ) 
organonitrogen compounds that are derivatives of isocyanic acid ;  compounds containing the isocyanate functional group  - n=c=o  ( as opposed to the cyanate group ,   - o - c#n )  .
an isocyanate compound containing two isocyanate functional groups .
a diisocyanate in which the two isocyanate groups are linked by an isophorone substituent .
a diisocyanate consisting of dicyclohexylmethane with two isocyanate groups at the 4 -  and 4' - positions .
a diisocyanate consisting of diphenylmethane with two isocyanate groups at the 4 -  and 4' - positions .
a macromolecule composed of repeating alkane or substituted alkane units .
a macromolecule composed of ethane or substituted ethane units .
a macromolecule composed of units connected by dicarboximide  (  - c ( =o )  - nr - c ( =o )  -  )  linkages ,  where r can be h or organyl .
a homopolymer macromolecule composed of units connected by carbamate  (  - o - co - nh -  )  linkages .
a halophenol in which the halogen atom is bonded to the carbon atom adjacent to the c - oh group .
any fatty acid containing at least one c=c double bond .
a drug that binds to and activates gamma - hydroxybutyric acid receptors .
a macromolecule with the general formula  (  - cr2 - cr=c ( r ) cr2 -  ) n where r=h or an alkyl group .
a macromolecule composed of repeating 2 - methylbut - 2 - ene units .
a polymer composed of repeating cis - 2 - methylbut - 2 - ene units .
a diisocyanate that consists of toluene bearing two isocyanato functional groups positioned meta to one another .
a toluene meta - diisocyanate in which the isocyanato groups are at positions 2 and 4 relative to the methyl group on the benzene ring .
a toluene meta - diisocyanate in which the isocyanato groups are at positions 2 and 6 relative to the methyl group on the benzene ring .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits dna topoisomerase iv ,  which catalyses atp - dependent breakage of both strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strands through the breaks ,  and rejoining of the broken strands .
a diisocyanate compound with the two isocyanates linked by a hexane - 1 , 6 - diyl group .
a 1 , 2 - thazole that is 4 - isothiazolin - 3 - one bearing a methyl group on the nitrogen atom .
a 1 , 2 - thiazole that is 4 - isothiazolin - 3 - one bearing a methyl group on the nitrogen atom and a chlorine at c - 5 .
a cephalosporin carboxylis acid anion having 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetylamino and  [  ( 2 - methyl - 5 , 6 - dioxo - 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydro - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazin - 3 - yl ) sulfanyl ] methyl side - groups ,  formed by proton loss from the carboxy group of ceftriaxone .
a member of the class of benzoic acids that is benzoic acid having iodo substituents at the 2 -  ,  4 -  and 6 - positions and acetamido substituents at the 3 -  and 5 - positions .
a macromolecule composed of repeating  ( 2z )  - 2 - chlorobut - 2 - ene - 1 , 4 - diyl units .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of imp dehydrogenase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .205 )  ,  so blocking de novo biosynthesis of purine nucleotides .
a drug that suppresses spasms .
a 29 - amino acid peptide hormone consisting of his ,  ser ,  gln ,  gly ,  thr ,  phe ,  thr ,  ser ,  asp ,  tyr ,  ser ,  lys ,  tyr ,  leu ,  asp ,  ser ,  arg ,  arg ,  ala ,  gln ,  asp ,  phe ,  val ,  gln ,  trp ,  leu ,  met ,  asn and thr residues joined in sequence .
a dicarboximide that is piperidine which is substituted by oxo groups at positions 2 and 6 .
an n - sulfonylurea that is acetohexamide in which the acetyl group is replaced by a 2 -  ( 5 - chloro - 2 - methoxybenzamido ) ethyl group .
a compound that exhibits agonist activity at the mu - opioid receptor .
any drug found useful in the symptomatic treatment of diarrhoea .
a drug used for its effects on the gastrointestinal system ,  e .g .
the bitartrate salt of pentolinium .
a nitrogen oxoanion arising from deprotonation of the hydroxy group of nitroethane .
any salt of camphorsulfonic acid .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of atenolol .
compounds containing an ifosfamide skeleton .
an imidazolidine containing one or more oxo groups .
oxazoles in which the n and o atoms are adjacent .
an oxazolidine containing one or more oxo groups .
a sulfonic acid containing the camphorsulfonate anion .
a ketone containing a hydroxy group on the beta - carbon relative to the c=o group .
a beta - hydroxy ketone formed by hydroxylation of 4 - methylpentan - 2 - one at the 4 - position .
any salt or ester of camphorsulfonic acid .
the conjugate base of camphorsulfonic acid .
the r enantiomer of camphorsulfonic acid .
the s enantiomer of camphorsulfonic acid .
the r enantiomer of camphorsulfonate .
the s enantiomer of camphorsulfonate .
compounds containing a cyclic dicarboximide skeleton in which the two carboacyl groups on nitrogen together with the nitrogen itself form a 1h - pyrrole - 2 , 5 - dione structure .
a hydroxyisoflavone compound having a hydroxy group at the 7 - position .
a benzothiazole consisting of a benzene ring fused to an isothiazole .
a member of the class of  guanidines in which one of the hydrogens of the amino group has been replaced by a 2 - azocan - 1 - ylethyl group .
a compound derived from an alkene by replacing a hydrogen atom with a halogen atom .
a compound composed of a central piperidine structure with hydroxy and p - chlorophenyl substituents at position 4 and an n - linked p - fluorobutyrophenone moiety .
a haloalkane comprising ethane having three flouro substituents at the 1 - position as well as bromo -  and chloro substituents at the 2 - position .
a compound having the general formula rr'c ( oh ) or''  ( r'' = / = h )  .
a dialdehyde that is propane substituted by two oxo groups at the terminal carbon atoms respectively .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen of ethylamine .
a dialkyl ketone with methyl and pentyl as the alkyl groups .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
a member of the class of chlorobenzenes that is benzene in which all of the hydrogens are replaced by chlorines .
an organochlorine compound that is diphenylmethane in which each of the phenyl groups is substituted by chlorines at positions 2 ,  3 ,  and 5 ,  and by a hydroxy group at position 6 .
a papulacandin that is papulacandin a in which the  ( 2e , 4e )  - deca - 2 , 4 - dienoyl chain at the o -  ( 6' )  position is replaced by a  ( 2e , 4z , 6e )  - 8 - hydroxydeca - 2 , 4 , 6 - trienoyl chain .
any one of a family of large lipopeptides that are inhibitors of the enzyme 1 , 3 - beta - glucan synthase ,  thus damaging fungal cell walls .
conjugate acid of  (  -  )  - ephedrine .
a ribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion that is the trianion of adenosine 5' - triphosphate arising from deprotonation of three of the four free triphosphate oh groups .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of glycine .
zwitterionic form of d - alanine .
zwitterionic form of l - homoserine .
conjugate acid of staurosporine .
conjugate acid of isopropylamine .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained from the transfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group of l - dopa .
a fatty acid anion with a chain length of c13 to c22 .
conjugate base of biotin arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an organic sulfamate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of cyclohexylsulfamic acid .
a primary aliphatic ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of ethanolamine arising from protonation of the primary amino function .
conjugate base of quercetin arising from selective deprotonation of the 7 - hydroxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate base of 2 - nitrophenol ;  major apecies at ph 7 .3 .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - proline in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
the conjugate base of guanosine 3' , 5' - cyclic phosphate arising from deprotonation of the free phosphate oh group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an l - alpha - amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - valine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a benzothiadiazine that is 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2h - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine 1 , 1 - dioxide substituted by a chloro group at position 6 and a sulfonamide at 7 .
the conjugate base of a nucleoside 5' - phosphate .
the conjugate acid of codeine arising from protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an  ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of tryptamine arising from protonation of the primary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a phenolate anion that is the conjugate base of 4 - nitrophenol ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a peptide anion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups and protonation of the glutamyl amino group of glutathione ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
dianion of a 1 - acyl - sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate arising from deprotonation of both phosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of l - alanine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - phenylalanine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
the anion resulting from removal of a proton from the nitrogen at the 3 position  ( between the two carbonyl gropus )  of riboflavin .
zwitterionic form of d - glutamine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate acid of a primary aliphatic amine .
trication of streptomycin arising from protonation of the guanidino and secondary amino groups .
an organic cation that is the conjugate acid of dimethylamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the dianion of a nucleoside monophosphate: major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate base of 3 , 5 - dibromo - 4 - hydroxybenzonitrile ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the r -   ( less active )  enantiomer of ketamine .
conjugate acid of carbon monoxide arising from protonation of the carbon ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - phenylalanine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate acid of morphine arising from protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
trianion of nucleoside triphosphate arising from deprotonation of three of the four free triphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a nucleoside 5' - monophosphate ( 2 -  )  that results from the removal of two protons from the phosphate group of gmp .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion where the hydroxy group is placed at position 2  ( alpha to the carboxy group )  and has  ( s )  - stereochemistry ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of 3' , 5' - cyclic amp arising from deprotonation of the free phosphate oh group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a phenolate anion that is the conjugate base of pentachlorophenol ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion where the hydroxy group is placed at position 2  ( alpha to the carboxy group )  and has  ( r )  - stereochemistry ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - tyrosine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - glutamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of 1 - aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of trimethylamine ,  obtained via protonation of the nitrogen ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
dianion of alpha , alpha - trehalose 6 - phosphate .
a 5 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of jasmonic acid .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of histamine protonated on the side - chain nitrogen .
zwitterionic form of l - thyroxine .
the conjugate base of a nucleoside 3' , 5' - cyclic phosphate .
a monocarboxylic acid that is propionic acid in which one of the hydrogens at position 2 is substituted by a 4 -  ( 2 - methylpropyl ) phenyl group .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - tyrosine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
the conjugate base of a flavonol compound .
the simplest member of the class of  ifosfamides that is 1 , 3 , 2 - oxazaphosphinan - 2 - amine 2 - oxide substituted by 2 - chloroethyl groups on both the nitrogen atoms respectively .
an imidazolidine that is n - nitroimidazolidin - 2 - imine bearing a  ( 6 - chloro - 3 - pyridinyl ) methyl substituent at position 1 .
the zwitterionic form of an s - substituted l - cysteine .
a secondary aliphatic amine protonated on nitrogen .
an organic phosphoric acid derivative in which one or more oxygen atoms of the phosphate group ( s )  has been deprotonated .
any fatty acid anion with a chain length greater than c22 .
any fatty acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a short - chain fatty acid  ( chain length of less than c6 )  .
any fatty acid anion in which there is no c - c unsaturation .
any saturated fatty acid anion lacking a carbon side - chain .
any fatty acid anion with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
any saturated fatty acid anion with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
an organic anion of general formula rs ( =o ) 2o (  -  )  where r is an organyl group .
the conjugate acid of piperidine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the diepoxide of 4 - vinylcyclohexene .
the dimethyl ester of sulfuric acid .
the isocyanate that is methane modified by a single isocyanato substituent .
any ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of a metalloendopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .24 .
conjugate base of o - methylsalicylic acid .
any substance that stimulates an immune response in the body ,  such as through antibody production or by presentation to a t - cell receptor after binding to a major histocompability complex  ( mhc )  .
a carboxylic acid anion arising from deprotonation of one or more carboxy groups of any gibberellin .
a substance used as an indicator  of a biological state .
any substance capable of eliciting an immune response only when attached to a large carrier such as a protein .
any fatty acid whose skeletal carbon atoms form an unbranched open chain .
a fatty acid anion formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid functional group of a straight - chain fatty acid .
any fatty acid containing anywhere in its structure a ring of atoms .
any ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that inhibits the activity of a serine endopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .21 .
a compound that exhibits agonist activity at the kappa - opioid receptor .
a prostanoid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any prostaglandin .
an aromatic ketone that is propiophenone substituted at c - 4 and at c - beta with methyl and methylamino groups respectively .
the conjugate acid of methylamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a glycopeptide that is n - propionyl - l - alanyl - d - alpha - glutamine in which the pro - r hydrogen of the propionyl group has been replaced by the oxygen at position 3 of 2 - acetamido - 2 - deoxy - beta - d - glucopyranose .
any ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of a dipeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .13 .
the anion resulting from the removal of a proton from a carboxylic acid group of cilastatin .
any substance that inhibits the synthesis of dna .
the anion formed from naproxen by loss of a proton from the carboxy group .
any antigen that is a phosphorylated microbial metabolite which activates an immune response in humans .
any member of the sub - set of polyunsaturated fatty acid for which there is an absolute dietary requirement .
any fatty acid with a chain length of between c6 and c12 .
a fatty acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety of a medium - chain fatty acid .
an  organic anion that is the conjugate base of diamino acid .
a  biphenylyltetrazole that is an angiotensin ii receptor antagonist used mainly for the treatment of hypertension .
a quaternary ammonium salt derived from hexamethylenetetramine ;  used as a preservative in many cosmetics and industrial substances .
a diamino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is  1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine carrying a n - tert - butyl ,  n' - cyclopropyl and a methylsulfanyl group at position 6 .
an n - acylglucosamine where the n - acyl group is specified as acetyl .
any fatty acid having at least one of the chain methylene groups replaced by sulfur .
any fatty acid containing at least one aldehydic or ketonic group in addition to the carboxylic acid group .
a drug ,  usually applied topically ,  that relieves pruritus  ( itching )  .
compounds containing one or more phosphoric acid units .
an anion arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid function of any mono - hydroperoxy  ( e ) icosatetraenoic acid  ( hpete ) 
an organophosphate anion resulting from deprotonation of at least one of the acidic hydroxy groups from the triphosphate moiety of a nucleoside triphosphate .
the anion obtained by removal of the proton from the carboxylic acid group of amidotrizoic acid .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the nucleophile )  by accepting both bonding electrons from that reaction partner .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
a reagent used to improve selectivity in chromatographic analyses or separations ,  e .g .
an aldehyde derived from an aliphatic compound
an organooxygen compound having the structure rr'c ( or'' )  ( or''' )   ( r'' ,  r''' = / = h )  .
an acetal in the molecule of which the acetal carbon and one or both oxygen atoms thereon are members of a ring .
a hemiacetal having the structure rr ( 1 ) c ( oh ) or ( 2 )   ( r ,  r ( 1 )  ,  r ( 2 )  = / = h )  ,  derived from a ketone by formal addition of an alcohol to the carbonyl group .
an acetal of formula r2c ( or ) 2  ( r = / = h )  derived from a ketone by replacement of the oxo group by two hydrocarbyloxy groups .
a ketal in the molecule of which the ketal carbon and one or both oxygen atoms thereon are members of a ring .
a hemiacetal  having the structure r2c ( oh ) or  ( r = / = h )  ,  derived from a ketone by formal addition of an alcohol to the carbonyl group .
the sulfur analogue of 'acetal' .
a thioacetal having the structure r2c ( or' )  ( sr' )  .
a thioacetal having the structure r2c ( sr' ) 2 .
a dithioacetal of formula r2c ( sr' ) 2 ,  r = / = h ,  r' = / = h .
the conjugate acid of  ( s )  - nicotine arising from selective protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the trihydrate form of  docetaxel .
conjugate base of an l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
a synthetic progestogen .
the conjugate base of any hydroxy fatty acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
the conjugate base of any thia fatty acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
any compound containing a  ( halomethyl ) benzene skeleton .
any benzyl halide containing a  ( chloromethyl ) benzene skeleton .
zwitterionic form of an l - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of a d - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
a carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
the conjugate base of an n - acyl - d - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of gamma - aminobutyric acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
a dna polymerase inhibitor that interferes with the activity of reverse transcriptase ,  ec 2 .7 .7 .49 ,  a viral dna polymerase enzyme that retroviruses need in order to reproduce .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of dopamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any ec 1 .14 .18 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  miscellaneous compound as one donor ,  incorporating 1 atom of oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of tyrosinase  ( monophenol monooxygenase )  ,  ec 1 .14 .18 .1 ,  an enzyme that catalyses the oxidation of phenols  ( such as tyrosine )  and is widespread in plants and animals .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
a polymer is a mixture ,  which is composed of macromolecules of different kinds and which may be differentiated by composition ,  length ,  degree of branching etc . .
a homopolymer is a polymer composed of macromolecules ,  all of which are derived from one species of monomer .
a poly ( alkylene )  polymer is a homopolymer ,  composed of poly ( alkylene )  macromolecules .
polyethylene polymer is a poly ( alkylene )  polymer composed of polyethylene macromolecules .
any anion arising from deprotonation of at least one oh group in a flavonoid compound .
the zwitterion formed from l - proline by proton transfer from the carboxy group to the ring nitrogen .
a cyclic hexapeptide echinocandin antibiotic which exerts its effect by inhibiting the synthesis of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan ,  an integral component of the fungal cell wall .
the conjugate base of cocaine arising from protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
conjugate base of a 7 - hydroxyflavonol compound arising from selective deprotonation of the 3 - hydroxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of ca ( 2 +  )  - transporting atpase  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .8 )  .
a metal cation with a valence of two .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
a silver atom having a net electric charge .
a nickel atom having a net electric charge .
a lead atom having a net electric charge .
a selenium atom having a net electric charge .
r = c or h . the iminium ion resulting from the protonation of one of the imine nitrogens of guanidine or its derivatives .
a lead atom having a positive net electric charge .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydrolase acting on peptide bonds  ( peptidase )  ,  ec 3 .4 .* .
a tellurium atom having a net electric charge .
an aluminium atom having a net electric charge .
the alpha - amino - acid anion resulting from the removal of the proton from the carboxylic acid group of l - thyroxine .
any hormone produced by the thyroid gland
the oxime resulting from the formal condensation of 2 - methyl - 2 -  ( methylsulfanyl ) propanal with hydroxylamine .
an anion formed by deprotonation of at least one peptide carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of any peptide where ,  in general ,  the amino terminus is positively charged and the carboxy terminus is negatively charged .
a malonate ester that is diisopropyl malonate in which the two methylene hydrogens at position 2 are replaced by a 1 , 3 - dithiolan - 2 - ylidene group .
a member of the class of phenylureas that is 1 , 1 - dimethylurea substituted by a p - cumenyl group at position 3 .
a homopolymer composed of poly ( chloroprene )  macromolecules .
any cation arising from protonation of at least one of the amino functions in an indole alkaloid .
flavin protonated to ph 7 .3
any member of the class of herbicides whose members contain a phenoxy or substituted phenoxy group .
any agent that acts on an opioid receptor or affects the life cycle of an opioid  transmitter .
any agent that acts on a mu - opioid receptor .
compounds that contain an amide group as a key feature of their structure and which have been used as fungicides .
any agent that acts on a delta - opioid receptor .
any agent that acts on a kappa - opioid receptor .
an agent that binds to but does not activate an opioid receptor thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous opioid receptor agonists .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates an opioid receptor .
a methyl n -  ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl )  - n -  ( methoxyacetyl ) alaninate that is the more active r - enantiomer of metalaxyl .
any substance that inhibits the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
any organic aromatic compound containing two phenyl  ( or substituted phenyl )  groups attached to a single carbon or heteroatom and which has significant antifungal properties .
a retinoic acid that is all - trans - retinoic acid in which the double bond which is alpha , beta -  to the carboxy group is isomerised to z configuration .
an inorganic sodium salt having silicate as the counterion .
a homopolymer ,  composed of polyurethane macromolecules .
a pyrimidine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside compound having 5 - fluorouracil as the nucleobase ;  used to treat hepatic metastases of gastrointestinal adenocarcinomas and for palliation in malignant neoplasms of the liver and gastrointestinal tract .
an analogue of a nucleoside ,  being an n - glycosyl compound in which the nitrogen - containing moiety is a modified nucleotide base .
any substance which inhibits the action of receptors for excitatory amino acids .
the s -   ( more active )  enantiomer of ketamine .
any substance that possesses little anaesthetic effect by itself ,  but which enhances or potentiates the anaesthetic action of other drugs when given at the same time .
any pharmacological or immunological agent that modifies the effect of other agents such as drugs or vaccines while having few if any direct effects when given by itself .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit or promote polymerisation of microtubules .
an amino acid containing one or more nitrogen atoms connected through carbon atoms to one or more carboxy groups .
any alpha - amino acid anion in which the parent amino acid has d - configuration .
a racemate is an equimolar mixture of a pair of enantiomers .
a mixture composed of two or more diastereoisomers  ( stereoisomers not related as mirror images )  .
any  amino sugar that is a monosaccharide in which one alcoholic hydroxy group is replaced by an amino group .
an arylalkylamine in which the aryl group is phenyl .
a glucoside in which the anomeric carbon of the glycosidic bond is in a beta configuration
a non - proteinogenic l - alpha - amino acid that is l - homoserine substituted at oxygen with a guanidino  ( carbamimidamido )  group .
a poison that interferes with the function of the kidneys .
a hormone antagonist that blocks angiotensin receptors .
a macrolide lactam containing a 23 - membered lactone ring ,  originally isolated from the fermentation broth of a japanese soil sample that contained the bacteria streptomyces tsukubaensis .
a peroxol r - ooh where the substituent r is an alkyl group .
any lipid carrying one or more hydroperoxy substituents .
a hydrate that is the monohydrate form of tacrolimus .
an inorganic radical in which a free electron resides on one or more oxygen atoms of an oxygen species .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of histone deacetylase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .98 )  .
any compound that has a nucleobase as a part .
an ammonium ion obtained by protonation of the tertiary amino group of metoclopramide .
an ammonium ion that is obtained by protonation of both the tertiary amino group and the anilino nitrogen of metoclopramide .
a member of the class of cyclohexanones in which one of the hydrogens at position 2 is substituted by a 2 - chlorophenyl group ,  while the other is substituted by a methylamino group .
an oxo monocarboxylic acid that consists of propionic acid substituted by a 3 - benzoylphenyl group at position 2 .
a nucleotide having guanine as the base .
a  nucleotide having adenine as the base .
a purine ribonucleotide where the purine is guanine .
a purine riboncleotide where adenine is the purine .
a steroid that has a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton .
a dicarboxylate that contains four carbon atoms .
any hydroxy carboxylic acid which contains a hydroxy group located beta -  to the carboxylic acid group .
a polymer ,  composed of polyimide macromolecules .
a thiolate anion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the nitrogens of thiopental and tautomerisation .
a ribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion arising from global deprotonation of the  triphosphate group of any nucleoside triphosphate .
a member of the class of  benzyl chlorides that is toluene substituted on the alpha - carbon with chlorine .
an aryl group obtained via removal of the hydrogen atom from the 4 - position of nitrobenzene .
an anion resulting from the removal of a proton from an organic sulfamic acid group .
any cyclitol having one or more alcoholic hydroxy groups replaced by substituted or unsubstituted amino groups .
any organic molecular entity derived from a fatty acid .
an ec 1 .14 .13 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating 1 atom of oxygen ,  with nadh or nadph as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of nitric oxide synthase  ( ec 1 .14 .13 .39 )  .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to promote polymerisation of microtubules .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit polymerisation of microtubules .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a metabotropic glutamate receptor .
zwitterionic form of a polar amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
any donor that can transfer acyl groups between molecular entities .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of cis - abscisic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to at least two hydrogens .
a class of secondary metabolites developed by many plants to influence the behaviour ,  growth or survival of herbivores ,  and thus acting as a defence against herbivory .
any apo carotenoid sesquiterpenoid that is 3 - methylpenta - 2 , 4 - dienoic acid substituted at position 5 by a 1 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethyl - 4 - oxocyclohex - 2 - en - 1 - yl group and in which the acyclic double bond between positions 4 and 5 has e - configuration .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxy group of any member of the class of abscisic acids .
a molecular messenger in which the molecule is specifically involved in transmitting information between cells .
any branched - chain fatty acid containing methyl branches only .
the dicarboxylic acid dianion formed from folic acid by loss of a proton from each of the two carboxy groups in the glutamic acid moiety .
arsonium ,  ash4 (  +  )  ,  and derivatives formed by substitution by univalent groups .
an ec 4 .2 .1 .*  ( hydro - lyases )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of aconitase  ( ec 4 .2 .1 .3 )  .
any organophosphate oxoanion that is a negatively charged phospholipid ,  e .g .
an ester where the ester linkage is bonded directly to an aromatic system .
an amide in which the amide linkage is bonded directly to an aromatic system .
an antagonist that blocks glycine receptors .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of tyrosine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  any substitution of phenyl hydrogens ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of tyrosine by a heteroatom .
a family of nitrogen molecular entities which are highly reactive and derived from nitric oxide  (  .no )  and superoxide  ( o2 .
any additive that enhances the efficiency of fuel .
an alkane that consists of pentane bearing two methyl substituents at position 2 and a single methyl substituent at position 4 .
a 1 - acyl - sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate having oleoyl as the 1 - o - acyl group .
any compound that is able to prevent damage to the liver .
an ec 1 .2 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group with oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor which interferes with the action of aldehyde oxidase  ( ec 1 .2 .3 .1 )  .
an organic phosphate ester formed by condensation of diphosphoric acid with one or more alcohols .
an ec 2 .4 .2 .*  ( pentosyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a nad (  +  )  adp - ribosyltransferase  ( ec 2 .4 .2 .30 )  .
a polyunsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of icosatetraenoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of mycophenolic acid .
the carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of an icosanoid ,  formed when the carboxy group is deprotonated .
an icosanoid anion that is the conjugate base of a prostanoid .
an alpha - amino - acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of homoserine .
a glycol in which the two hydroxy groups are at positions 2 and 4 of 2 - methylpentane  ( isopentane )  .
the chemical role played by a substance that stabilizes an emulsion by increasing its kinetic stability .
a food additive used to form or maintain a uniform emulsion of two  ( or more )  phases in a food .
any zinc ion that is positively charged .
an aluminium atom having a positive net electric charge .
a transition element cation where the metal is specifed as cadmium .
an agonist that binds to and activates sphingosine 1 - phosphate receptors .
the tetracarboxylic acid anion formed by deprotonation of three of the four carboxy groups in ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid  ( edta )  .
an  ec 2 .3 .1 .*  ( acyltransferase transferring other than amino - acyl group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of mitochondrial carnitine o - palmitoyltransferase  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .21 )  .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
an organophosphate oxoanion resulting from deprotonation of at least one of the acidic hydroxy groups from the phosphate moiety of a ribonucleoside monophosphate .
a nitrotoluene bearing a single nitro substituent at any position .
an inhibitor that interferes with the process of t - cell proliferation .
the element or compound in a reduction - oxidation  ( redox )  reaction that donates an electron to another species .
a substance that removes electrons from another reactant in a redox reaction .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
the inorganic dichloride salt of barium .
an alkaline earth salt that has barium ( 2 +  )  as the cation .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of alkaline phosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .1 )  .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a disaccharide .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a monosaccharide .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a pentose .
a retintinyl ester in which all double bonds of the retinyl side - chain have trans - configuration .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from an alditol .
a sulfur - containing amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
a branched - chain amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
an aromatic amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( non - protonated )  .
an iodothyronine whose alpha carboxylic acid group of the tyrosine is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
a substance capable of undergoing rapid and highly exothermic decomposition .
a transition element cation that is a form of platinum having had electrons removed resulting in the 2 +  ,  3 +  ,  or 4 +  cation .
an aralylamino compound which contains one amino group connected to an aromatic ring by a two - carbon chain .
a dicarboxylic acid diamide that consists of n - methylisophthalamide bearing three iodo substituents at positions 2 ,  4 and 6 ,  a methoxyacetyl substituent at position 5 and two 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropyl groups attached to the amide nitrogens .
a 1 - ribosyltriazole that is the 1 - ribofuranosyl derivative of 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole - 3 - carboxamide .
an n - glycosyl compound that consists of any triazole having a glycosyl residue attached at position 1 .
a 1 - glycosyltriazole in which the glycosyl residue is specified as ribosyl .
a carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of  ( s )  - 2 - methylbutyric acid with the hydroxy group adjacent to the ring junction of  ( 3r , 5r )  - 7 -  [  ( 1s , 2s , 6s , 8s , 8ar )  - 6 , 8 - dihydroxy - 2 - methyl - 1 , 2 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 8a - hexahydronaphthalen - 1 - yl ]  - 3 , 5 - dihydroxyheptanoic acid .
a sulfonamide that is n - phenylmethanesulfonamide in which the phenyl group is sustituted at position 4 by a 1 - hydroxy - 2 -  ( isopropylamino ) ethyl group .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen of the secondary amino group of sotalol .
a 3 - hydroxy carboxylic acid that is  ( 3r , 5r )  - 3 , 5 - dihydroxyheptanoic acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a  ( 1s , 2s , 6s , 8s , 8ar )  - 6 , 8 - dihydroxy - 2 - methyl - 1 , 2 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 8a - hexahydronaphthalen - 1 - yl group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of pravastatin .
a member of the class of 1 , 2 , 4 - triazines in which the triazene skeleton is substituted by amino groups at positions 3 and 5 ,  and by a 2 , 3 - dichlorophenyl group at position 6 .
an erythromycin cation resulting from the protonation of the tertiary amino group of erythromycin d ;  the major species at ph 7 .3 .
any compound that can be used for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders .
any alcohol in which two hydroxy groups are bonded to the same atom .
a 1 , 1 - diol resulting from the formal addition of water to the carbonyl group of a aldehyde .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a retinoid x receptor .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of pivalic acid .
a primary alcohol that is ethanol in which one of the methyl hydrogens is replaced by a butoxy group .
a mixture of polychlorobiphenyls of unspecified composition ,  containing 54% chlorine  ( x = cl or h )  .
any lactone in which the cyclic carboxylic ester group forms a part of a cyclic macromolecule .
a very long - chain fatty acid that is docosa - 10 , 16 - dienoic acid which is substituted by methyl groups at positions 4 ,  6 ,  8 ,  12 ,  14 ,  18 and 20 ,  by hydroxy groups at positions 11 ,  19 and 21 ,  and by a  ( 2' , 5 - dimethyloctahydro - 2 , 2' - bifuran - 5 - yl ) ethanol group at position 21 .
an pathway inhibitor that inhibits the synthesis of cellulose .
an ec 3 .6 .4 .10  ( non - chaperonin molecular chaperone atpase )  inhibitor that blocks the action of heat shock protein 90 .
any fatty acid carrying one or more hydroperoxy substituents .
a fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of any hydroperoxy fatty acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a protein kinase c receptor
a member of the class of benzamides resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 4 - amino - 5 -  ( ethylsulfonyl )  - 2 - methoxybenzoic acid with the primary amino group of 2 -  ( aminomethyl )  - 1 - ethylpyrrolidine .
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
a food additive that is used to change or otherwise control the acidity or alkalinity of foods .
a cyclopentapyrimidine that is 6 , 7 - dihydro - 1h - cyclopenta [ d ] pyrimidine - 2 , 4 ( 3h , 5h )  - dione substituted by a cyclohexyl group at position 3 .
an alkyl hydroperoxide in which the alkyl group is tert - butyl .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a protein kinase receptor .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protein farnesyltransferase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .58 )  ,  one of the three enzymes in the prenyltransferase group .
any protease inhibitor that restricts the action of a cysteine protease .
the organic cation formed formally by addition of an ethylene bridge between the nitrogen atoms of 2 , 2' - bipyridine .
an organic sodium salt that is the monosodium salt of glutamic acid .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by an 11 - methyldodec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
an ec 2 .7 .8 .*  ( transferases for other substituted phosphate groups )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any udp - n - acetylglucosamine -  - dolichyl - phosphate n - acetylglucosaminephosphotransferase  ( ec 2 .7 .8 .15 )  ,  preventing formation of n - acetylglucosamine lipid intermediates and glycosylation of newly synthesised glycoproteins .
an optically active form of monosodium glutamate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of monosodium glutamate having d - configuration .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 12 - methyltridec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a tetradec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a pentadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 13 - methyltetradec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by an 13 - methyltetradecanoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 14 - methylpentadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a hexadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
an erythromycin cation that is the conjugate acid of erythromycin c ,  arising from protonation of the tertiary amino group on the 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 -  ( dimethylamino )  - beta - d - xylo - hexopyranosyl residue ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an erythromycin cation that is the conjugate acid of erythromycin a ,  arising from protonation of the tertiary amino group on the 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 -  ( dimethylamino )  - beta - d - xylo - hexopyranosyl residue ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a heptadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 15 - methylhexadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
an erythromycin that consists of erythronolide a having 2 , 6 - dideoxy - 3 - c - methyl - alpha - l - ribo - hexopyranosyl and 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 -  ( dimethylamino )  - beta - d - xylo - hexopyranosyl residues attahced at positions 4 and 6 respectively .
a dialdehyde comprised of pentane with aldehyde functions at c - 1 and c - 5 .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of any erythromycin .
the calcium salt of cyanamide ,  formed when calcium carbide reacts with nitrogen
an organic nitrogen anion formed from cyanamide by loss of its two protons .
a secondary amino compound that is noradrenaline in which one of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen is replaced by an isopropyl group .
a 6 - phenyl - 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydroimidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ]  [ 1 , 3 ] thiazole that has s configuration .
a compound used to form the matrix for maldi  ( matrix - assisted laser desorption / ionization )  mass spectrometry .
an organic amino compound in which an aminoalkyl group is linked to an arene .
a pyrrolidinone and carboxamide that is n - methylpyrrolidin - 2 - one in which one of the methyl hydrogens is replaced by an aminocarbonyl group ,  while another is replaced by an ethyl group  ( the s enantiomer )  .
a neurotransmitter transporter modulator that activates glutamate transporters .
a membrane transport modulator that affects the transport of neurotransmitters .
any organic salt prepared using an organosulfonic acid as the acid component .
a cysteine protease inhibitor which inhibits cathepsin k  ( ec 3 .4 .22 .38 )  .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .29 )  .
an ec 1 .3 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch - ch group of donor ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of arogenate dehydrogenase  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .43 )  .
the arsenic oxoanion formed by loss os a single proton from arsonic acid .
an organic aromatic compound whose structure contains two aromatic rings or ring systems ,  joined to each other by a single bond .
a metabolite of plant origin  ( phytochemical )  which acts as a source material for biosynthesis of both lignans and lignin .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of methionine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the monocarboxylic acid amide resulting from the formal condensation of n , n - diethylglycine with 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
an ec 2 .1 .2 .*  ( hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glycine hydroxymethyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .1 )  .
an excitatory amino acid agonist which binds to nmda receptors and triggers a response .
a food additive which is added to flour or dough to improve baking quality and / or colour .
a toxin that accumulates in patients with chronic kidney disease .
any glycine transporter inhibitor that interferes with the action of glycine 1 transporters .
an agonist that binds to and activates glycine receptors
a differentiation - inducing factor that is hexaphenone bearing two chloro substituents at positions 3 and 5 ,  two hydroxy substituents at positions 2 and 6 as well as a single methoxy substituent at position 4 .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton that acts as a hormone .
a lipid similar in structure to a glycerolipid but in which one or more of the carbon atoms on glycerol is bonded to an alkyl chain via an ether linkage ,  as opposed to the usual ester linkage .
a repetitive glycan polysaccharide contained within a lipopolysaccharide  ( lps )  .
an inorganic cation with a valency of two .
a peptide of 36 - 43 amino acids that is processed from the amyloid precursor protein .
an ec 1 .8 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on sulfur group of donors ,  nad +  or nadp +  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of thioredoxin reductase  ( ec 1 .8 .1 .9 )  .
an aromatic ketone that is penta -  or hexaphenone bearing chloro ,  hydroxy and methoxy substituents on the benzene ring .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of any anthracycline .
an organic cation resulting from the addition of a proton to metronidazole .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of three .
a carbohydrate - containing antibiotic produced by the actinomyces streptomyces lincolnensis .
the tetracarboxylic acid anion formed by deprotonation of two of the four carboxy groups in ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid  ( edta )  .
an  ec 3 .1 .4 .*  ( phosphoric diester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of phosphatidylinositol - specific phospholipase c  ( ec 3 .1 .4 .11 )  .
an anthracycline cation that is the conjugate acid of doxorubicin ,  arising from protonation of the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a member of the class of phenylureas that is n - methyl urea substituted by a methoxy group at position 1 and a 3 , 4 - dichlorophenyl group at position 3 .
the role played by a substance in enhancing the appearance or odour of the human body ;  a name given to the substance itself or to a component of it .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
any compound that inhibits cell division  ( mitosis )  .
a drug used to treat or prevent infections caused by mycobacteria ,  a genus of actinobacteria .
an antiparasitic drug which is effective against apicomplexan parasites in the genus plasmodium .
any protease inhibitor that restricts the action of a serine protease .
an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the human immunodeficiency virus .
a clathrate complex consisting of a lipid enwrapped in a protein host without covalent binding in such a way that the complex has a hydrophilic outer surface consisting of all the protein and the polar ends of any phospholipids .
an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the herpes simplex virus  ( also known as the human herpes virus )  .
an anti - hsv agent agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of herpes simplex virus - 1 .
a lipoxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of arachidonate 5 - lipoxygenase  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .34 )  .
a lipoxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of arachidonate 15 - lipoxygenase  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .33 )  .
any ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of triacylglycerol lipase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .3 )  .
any compound that has anti - asthmatic effects .
an  ec 4 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxy - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of arginine decarboxylase  ( ec 4 .1 .1 .19 )  .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of fructose - bisphosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .11 )  .
an agonist at the a1 receptor .
an ec 2 .1 .1 .*  ( methyltransferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cyclopropane fatty acid synthase  ( ec 2 .1 .1 .79 )  .
an ec 2 .1 .1 .*  ( methyltransferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of site - specific dna - methyltransferase  ( adenine - specific )  ,  ec 2 .1 .1 .72 .
a member of the class of azetidines that is melagatran in which the carboxylic acid group has been converted to the corresponding ethyl ester and in which the amidine group has been converted into the corresponding amidoxime .
a member of the class of piperidines that is the 4 - acetyl - 2 - methoxyphenyl ether of 3 -  ( piperidin - 1 - yl ) propan - 1 - ol which is substituted at position 4 of the piperidine ring by a 6 - fluoro - 1 , 2 - benzoxazol - 3 - yl group .
antipsychotic drugs which can have different modes of action but which tend to be more likely than second generation antipsychotics to cause extrapyramidal motor control disabilities such as body rigidity or parkinson's disease - type movements ;  such body movements can become permanent even after treatment has ceased .
antipsychotic drugs which can have different modes of action but which tend to be less likely than first generation antipsychotics to cause extrapyramidal motor control disabilities such as body rigidity or parkinson's disease - type movements .
a carbohydrate derivative that is any derivative of a polysaccharide .
an  ec 3 .4 .21 .*  ( serine endopeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of thrombin  ( ec 3 .4 .21 .5 )  .
amidines of general formula rc ( =noh ) nr ( 1 ) r ( 2 )  ,  in which the imino nitrogen is substituted by a hydroxy group .
substances which are added to food in order to prevent decomposition caused by  microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes .
a food preservative which prevents decomposition of food by preventing the growth of fungi or bacteria .
a compound that inhibits the action of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
any substance which is used to neutralise stomach acidity .
an ammonium ion derivative resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen atom of a primary amino compound .
a family of peptide hormones derived from a 191 - membered prehormone ,  secreted by the paraventricular nucleus  ( pvn )  of the hypothalamus in response to stress .
an indole alkaloid which is biosynthesised from l - tryptophan and isoprenoid building blocks .
a terpenoid indole alkaloid which is biosynthesised from l - tryptophan and diisoprenoid  ( usually secolaganin )  building blocks .
a biphenylyltetrazole where a 1 , 1' - biphenyl group is attached at the 5 - position and has an additional trisubstituted imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl group at the 4' - position
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  and  ( s )  - malathion .
any dicarboxylic acid that contains four carbon atoms .
a c - nitro compound in which the nitro compound is meta to the amino group and para to the methyl group of o - toluidine .
an aminotoluene in which the amino substituent is ortho to the methyl group .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of alanine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any compound which can be used to treat or alleviate the symptoms of dyskinesia .
any compound that improves mental functions such as cognition ,  memory ,  intelligence ,  motivation ,  attention ,  and concentration .
any compound which inhibits the postganglionic functioning of the sympathetic nervous system  ( sns )  .
any compound used to suppress premature labour and immature birth by suppressing uterine contractions .
an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any folic acid .
a l - alpha - amino acid anion which is the conjugate base of l - dopa ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group: major species at ph 7 .3 .
any branched - chain fatty acid anion containing methyl branches only .
a folate obtained by deprotonation of any tetrahydrofolic acid .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy and one of the phosphate oh groups of glyphosate .
an agonist that binds to and activates cannabinoid receptors .
any compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
a chemosterilant intended to sterilize insects .
a ryanodine receptor modulator which activates the receptor .
a molecule that can substitute for a normal nucleobase in nucleic acids .
an aminobenzoic acid that is anthranilic acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a 2 , 3 - dimethylphenyl group .
an ec 3 .4 .24 .*  ( metalloendopeptidase )  inhibitor which interferes with the action of microbial collagenase  ( ec 3 .4 .24 .3 ,  also formerly ec 3 .4 .4 .19 and ec 3 .4 .99 .5 )  .
an inhibitor that interferes with the process of gap junctional intercellular communication .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a retinoic acid receptor .
an antogonist that interferes with the action of activator protein 1  ( ap - 1 )  .
a provitamin that can be converted into vitamin a by enzymes from animal tissues .
a ribonucleic acid with two complementary strands ,  similar to the dna found in all cells .
an ec 3 .2 .1 .*  ( glycosidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of alpha - glucosidase  ( ec 3 .2 .1 .20 )  .
a diketone in which the two keto groups are separated by a single carbon atom .
a racemate comprising equal amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - metalaxyl .
a member of the class of 1 , 2 , 4 - triazines that is 1 , 2 , 4 - triazin - 5 ( 4h )  - one substituted by an amino group at position 4 ,  a methyl group at position 3 and a phenyl group at position 6 .
an organochlorine compound that is 2 - chloroacetamide substituted by a 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl and a  ( 1h - pyrazol - 1 - ylmethyl )  group at the nitrogen atom .
a member of the class of guanidines that is biguanide the carrying two methyl substituents at position 1 .
a hydrochloride resulting from the reaction of metformin with one molar equivalent of hydrogen chloride .
a quaternary ammonium ion in which the nitrogen is substituted with three methyl groups and a 2 - acetoxypropyl group .
a ketone that is heptan - 3 - one substituted by a dimethylamino group at position 6 and two phenyl groups at position 4 .
a member of the class of amphetamines in which the amino group of  ( s )  - amphetamine carries a methyl substituent .
a polycyclic cage that is adamantane in which the carbon atoms at positions 1 ,  3 ,  5 and 7 are replaced by nitrogen atoms .
a carbamate ester obtained by the formal condensation of  methylcarbamic acid with the hydroxy group of  1 -  ( methylsulfanyl ) acetaldoxime .
an ether in which the two groups attached to the central oxygen atom are methyl and 2 , 2 - dichloro - 1 , 1 - difluoroethyl .
any monocyclic heteroarene consisting of a five - membered ring containing nitrogen .
a deoxyribonucleoside containing a pyrimidine base .
a protein kinase inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin  ( mtor )  ,  a protein that regulates cell growth ,  cell proliferation ,  cell motility ,  cell survival ,  protein synthesis and transcription .
a family of sesquiterpene lactones with a common structure consisting of two lactone moieties  ( one a butenolide ,  the other a tricyclic gamma - lactone )  connected by an enol - ether bridge .
a glycerophosphocholine that is sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which positions 1 and 2 are substituted by unspecified acyl and alkyl groups ,  and in which the positions of the acyl and alkyl groups are also unspecified .
any substance that inhibits the process of apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  in multi - celled organisms .
any substance that induces the process of apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  in multi - celled organisms .
a maleate ester resulting from the formal condensation of both carboxy groups of maleic acid with ethanol .
a compound which causes a reduction in the levels of glutathione in cells .
an antagonist at the p2y12 receptor
an ec 3 .4 .14 .*  ( dipeptidyl -  and tripeptidyl - peptidases )  inhibitor that specifically inhibits dipeptidyl peptidase - 4  ( ec 3 .4 .14 .5 )  .
an organic chloride salt having 3 , 7 - bis ( dimethylamino ) phenothiazin - 5 - ium as the counterion .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of the two threo isomers of methyl phenyl ( piperidin - 2 - yl ) acetate .
the 6alpha - stereoisomer of  6 - methylprednisolone .
a racemate that consists of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - metolachlor .
a propanolamine that is 1 -  ( propan - 2 - ylamino ) propan - 2 - ol substituted by a  4 -  ( 2 - methoxyethyl ) phenoxy group at position 1 .
a phosphonic ester that is dimethyl phosphonate in which the hydrogen atom attched to the phosphorous is substituted by a 2 , 2 , 2 - trichloro - 1 - hydroxyethyl group .
a member of the class of imidazoles substituted at c - 1 ,   - 2 and  - 5 with 2 - hydroxyethyl ,  nitro and methyl groups respectively .
a bicyclic macrolide natural product consisting of a 16 - membered bicyclic lactone attached to the rare 2 - thiazolidinone moiety .
a microcystin consisting of d - alanyl ,  l - leucyl ,   ( 3s )  - 3 - methyl - d - beta - aspartyl , l - arginyl ,  2s , 3s , 4e , 6e , 8s , 9s )  - 3 - amino - 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 - tetradehydro - 9 - methoxy - 2 , 6 , 8 - trimethyl - 10 - phenyldecanoyl ,  d - gamma - glutamyl ,  and 2 , 3 - didehydro - n - methylalanyl residues joined into a 25 - membered macrocycle .
a member of the class of azepanes that is azepane in which the nitrogen is substituted by an  ( ethylsulfanyl ) carbonyl group ,   - c ( =o ) set .
a hormone agonist that binds to and activates progesterone receptors .
a monocarboxylic acid amide resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of m - toluic acid with the nitrogen of diethylamine .
an ec 6 .4 .1 .*  ( c - c bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of acetyl - coa carboxylase  ( ec 6 .4 .1 .2 )  .
a member of the class of purines that is 9h - purine in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 6 are replaced by a  [ 4 -  ( morpholin - 4 - yl ) phenyl ] nitrilo group and a cyclohexylamino group ,  respectively .
any compound which induces a partially or terminally differentiated cell to revert to an earlier developmental stage .
an antagonist at the a3 receptor .
an oxindole that is indolin - 2 - one which is substituted at position 5 by an  ( ethylsulfonyl ) nitrilo group and at position 2 by a methylidene group ,  which is itself substituted by a phenyl group and a  [ 4 -  ( piperidin - 1 - ylmethyl ) phenyl ] amino group .
an ec 5 .99 .1 .*  ( miscellaneous isomerase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any of the topoisomerases  ( enzymes that regulate the overwinding or underwinding of dna )  .
any substance that inhibits the polymerisation of the protein actin .
any protein kinase inhibitor that inhibits the action of an aurora kinase  ( a group of serine / threonine kinases that are essential for cell proliferation )  .
a benzazepine that is 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydro - 1h - 2 - benzazepine which is substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 7 and 8 and on the nitrogen atom by a 2 -  ( p - chlorophenyl ) ethylaminothiocarbonyl group .
any substance which blocks the painful sensation of heat caused by capsaicin acting on the trpv1 ion channel .
a monocarboxylic acid that is 2 -  ( phenylsulfanyl ) isobutyric acid in which the phenyl group is substituted at the para -  position by a 3 - aza - 7 - cyclohexylhept - 1 - yl group in which the nitrogen is acylated by a  ( cyclohexylamino ) carbonyl group .
any compound which acts on the peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor .
a ppar modulator which activates the peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor - alpha .
an ec 1 .2 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group with nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glyceraldehyde - 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase  ( ec 1 .2 .1 .12 )  .
an antiprotozoal drug used to treat or prevent infections caused by protozoan parasites that belong to the genus leishmania .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino groups of any alkane - alpha , omega - diamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a triterpenoid that consists of a hexacyclic ring system .
an agonist that binds to and activates g - protein - coupled receptors
an ec 3 .5 .1 .98  ( histone deacetylase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of sir2 .
any intra - glandular substance that acts as a precursor of a hormone ,  usually having minimal hormonal effect itself .
any ketone that is 1 , 3 - diphenylpropanone and its derivatives obtained by substitution .
an antagonist at any adenosine receptor .
an inorganic sodium salt comprised of a diphosphate ( 4 -  )  anion and four sodium ( 1 +  )  cations .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of a transferase  ( ec 2 .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of tetracycline obtained by deprotonation of the two enolic hydroxy groups and protonation of the tertiary amino group .
a long - chain unsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexadec - 9 - enoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 2 .3 .1 .*  ( acyltransferase transferring other than amino - acyl group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of fatty acid synthase  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .85 )  ,  a multi - enzyme protein involved in fatty acid synthesis .
members of the class of tetrahydrochromenochromene that consists of a cis - fused tetrahydrochromeno [ 3 , 4 - b ] chromene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
an amino - acid anion in which the amino group is situated gamma -  to the carboxylate group .
an insecticide that acts as a repellent to insects .
any organooxygen compound that has the general formula rc ( or ( 1 )  )  ( or ( 2 )  )  ( or ( 3 )  )  ,  where r ( 1 )  ,  r ( 2 )  ,  r ( 3 )  = / = h .
a hexadecenoic acid in which the double bond is located at position 9 .
a member of the class of flavans in which one or more ring hydrogens are replaced by hydroxy groups .
any toxin secreted by bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi or protozoa enabling them to achieve colonisation of a niche in the host ,  inhibit or evade the host's immune response ,  enter and exit cells ,  or obtain nutrition from the host .
an organic chloride salt that is the monochloride salt of malachite green cation .
a provitamin that can be converted into vitamin b1 by enzymes from animal tissues .
any organic molecular entity whose stucture is based on derivatives of a phenyl - substituted 1 - phenylpropane possessing a c15 or c16 skeleton ,  or such a structure which is condensed with a c6 - c3 lignan precursors .
an imidazotetrazine that is 3 , 4 - dihydroimidazo [ 5 , 1 - d ]  [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 ] tetrazine which is substituted at positions 3 ,  4 ,  and 8 by methyl ,  oxo ,  and carboxamide groups ,  respectively .
any organic heterobicyclic compound containing ortho - fused imidazole and tetrazine rings .
any isoflavonoid with a 3 , 4 - dihydro - 3 - aryl - 2h - 1 - benzopyran skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a nitrogen molecular entity resulting from the formal substitution of one or more of the hydrogens of triazene .
any chromenochromene resulting from the formal cis - fusion of two dihydro chromene rings ,  together with their substituted derivatives .
members of the class of rotenoid which consists of a 6a , 12a - dihydrochromeno [ 3 , 4 - b ] chromen - 12 ( 6h )  - one skeleton and its substituted products .
any organic molecular entity derived from a natural product by partial chemical synthesis .
any of the carbohydrate - containing antibiotic compounds obtained from the deuteromycetous fungus papularia sphaerosperma and generally consisting of o - orsellinic acid linked via a spirocyclic structure to a lactose moiety with two different side - chains: a shorter fatty - acid chain at the o -  ( 6' )  position and a longer side - chain at the o -  ( 3 )  position of the glucose moiety .
a cyclic ketal in which the ketal carbon is the only common atom of two rings .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
an agonist that binds to and activates aryl hydrocarbon receptors  ( ahrs )  .
any inhibitor of the biosynthesis of carotenoids .
an ec 1 .3 .99 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group with other acceptors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of phytoene desaturase  ( zeta - carotene - forming )  ,  ec 1 .3 .99 .29 ,  an enzyme of carotenoid biosynthesis that converts phytoene into zeta - carotene  ( zeta - carotene )  via the symmetrical introduction of two double bonds at the c - 11 and c - 11' positions of phytoene .
a biomacromolecule composed of carbohydrate residues which is secreted by a microorganism into the surrounding environment .
any organic amino compound that has an amino group and a hydroxy group attached to the same carbon atom .
a sulfonamide that is benzenesulfonamide substituted at positions 3 and 5 by nitro groups and at position 4 by a dipropylamino group .
a monocarboxylic acid that is butyric acid in which one of the hydrogens at position 4 is replaced by a 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy group .
an  ec 1 .11 .1 .*  ( peroxidases )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of l - ascorbate peroxidase  ( ec 1 .11 .1 .11 )  .
any compound that protects plants by activating their defence mechanisms .
an agonist that binds to and activates abscisic acid receptors .
an ec 1 .3 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group with oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protoporphyrinogen oxidase  ( ec 1 .3 .3 .4 )  .
any compound that inhibits one or more steps in the pathway leading to the synthesis of gibberellins .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase which acts on acid anhydrides  ( ec 3 .6 .* .
an inhibitor of nf - kappab  ( nuclear factor kappa - light - chain - enhancer of activated b cells )  ,  a protein complex involved in the transcription of dna .
a cyclooxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of cyclooxygenase 3 .
any compound that inhibits oxidative phosphorylation .
an agonist at any adenosine receptor .
an acaricide that kills mites of the genus sarcoptes .
a photochemical role realized in the absorption of ultraviolet light ,  for example to protect skin cells from damage .
a drug used in treating and healing of wounds .
an aldehyde of general formula r - ch2 - ch=o in which the aldehydic c=o function is attached to a ch2 group at the alpha - position .
any ec 3 .4 .11 .*  ( aminopeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of methionyl aminopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .11 .18 )  .
any methionyl aminopeptidase inhibitor that inhibits the action of methionyl aminopeptidase 2 .
a mancude heterobicyclic organic group consisting of a benzene ring fused to a pyrrole ring .
any organic molecule containing a c#c bond .
an acetylenic compound which a carbon of the c#c moiety is attached to a hydrogen atom .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound that is a derivative of a naphthyridine .
a bicyclic organic group that contains both carbon and hetero atoms .
a vitamin d that is calciol or its hydroxylated metabolites calcidiol and calcitriol .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from erythrose 4 - phosphate and phosphoenolpyruvate  ( i .e .
a carbonyl compound produced as a water - soluble byproduct when fatty acids are broken down for energy in the liver .
the simplest diazo compound ,  in which a diazo group is attached to a methylene group .
a carbohydrate derivative in which one or more of the oxygens or hydroxy groups of the parent carbohydrate is replaced by sulfur or  - sr ,  where r can be hydrogen or any group .
a member of the class of hydrazines that is hydrazine in which one of the hydrogens attached to each nitrogen is replaced by a methyl group .
an organic cation resulting from the protonation of both of the nitrogens of 1 , 2 - dimethylhydrazine .
an antimetabolite that impairs the action of folic acids
a disaccharide consisting of alpha - l - rhamnose and beta - d - glucose linked via a 1 -  > 2 glycosidic bond .
any substance that stimulates the corneal nerves in the eves to cause tears .
an  ec 1 .17 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2 )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of ribonucleoside - diphosphate reductase  ( ec 1 .17 .4 .1 )  .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a five - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
a pyrrolidinone in which the oxo group is at position 2 of the pyrrolidine ring .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of genistein ,  obtained by selective deprotonation of the 7 - hydroxy group .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of sepiapterin reductase  ( l - erythro - 7 , 8 - dihydrobiopterin forming )  ,  ec 1 .1 .1 .153 ,  which plays an important part in the biosynthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin .
any compound used as a monomer for a polymerisation process .
a member of the class of ureas that has the general formula r - co - nh - co - nh2 or r - co - nh - co - nh - co - r' ,  formally derived by the acylation of one or both of the nitrogens of a urea moiety .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - valine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an organic heterotetracyclic compound that is the 9 -  epimer of 4' - demethylpodophyllotoxin .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralize the deleterious effects of paracetamol  ( acetaminophen )  .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralize the deleterious effects of curare .
a 1 - acyl - sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate ( 2 -  )  obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups of 1 - oleoyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphate .
any steroid lactone that is a  c23 steroid with a five - membered lactone ring at c - 17 and its substituted derivatives .
an  organic heteropentacyclic compound that is naloxone substituted in which the allyl group attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a cyclopropylmethyl group .
a methoxynaphthalene that is 2 - methoxynaphthalene substituted by a carboxy ethyl group at position 6 .
a compound that causes the contraction of body tissues ,  typically used to reduce bleeding from minor abrasions .
any organic aromatic compound having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a heteroarene ring .
a member of the class of guanidines that is guanidine in which one of the amino groups is substituted by a dodecyl group .
a guanidinium ion resulting from the protonation of the imino nitrogen of 1 - dodecylguanidine .
any oligosaccharide that has a biosynthetic pathway in common with that of raffinose .
colourless ,  endogenous or exogenous pigment precursors that may be transformed by biological mechanisms into coloured compounds .
a dihydroxyflavone in which the two hydroxy groups are located at positions 5 and 7 .
an ec 5 .4 .3 .*  ( intramolecular transferase transferring amino groups )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of lysine 2 , 3 - aminomutase  ( ec 5 .4 .3 .2 )  .
a dithiocarbamic ester that is 1 , 3 , 5 - thiadiazinane with a thione moiety at position 2 and in which the hydrogens attached to the nitrogens are replaced by methyl groups .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - myclobutanil .
any compound that inhibits one or more steps in the pathway leading to the synthesis of ergosterol .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of  ( r )  - 2 -  ( 4 - chloro - 2 - methylphenoxy ) propanoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of  ( s )  - 2 -  ( 4 - chloro - 2 - methylphenoxy ) propanoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of  ( s )  - dichlorprop .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of  ( r )  - dichlorprop .
a generally pharmacologically inactive substance that is formulated with the active ingredient of a medication .
the simplest member of the class of benzotriazoles that consists of a benzene nucleus fused to a 1h - 1 , 2 , 3 - triazole ring .
an aromatic ether that is 2 - hydroxypropanoic acid in which the hydroxy group at position 2 has been converted to its 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ether .
the r -   ( active )  enantiomer of dichlorprop .
the s -   ( inactive )  enantiomer of dichlorprop .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - dichlorprop .
an inhibitor of peroxidases  ( ec 1 .11 .1 .
an ec 1 .11 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on peroxide as donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any of the peroxidases  ( ec 1 .11 .1 .
a n - sulfonylurea that is 2 -  ( carbamoylsulfamoyl )  - n , n - dimethylpyridine - 3 - carboxamide substituted by a 4 , 6 - dimethoxypyrimidin - 2 - yl group at the amino nitrogen .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of an isomerase  ( ec 5 .* .* .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - n bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a ligase  ( ec 6 .* .* .* )  .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - c bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .4 .* .
a racemate composed of equal amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - sarin .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 2 -  ( 4 - chloro - 2 - methylphenoxy ) propanoic acid ;  the active stereoisomer of the racemic herbicide mecoprop .
a monocarboxylic acid that is lactic acid in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is replaced by a 4 - chloro - 2 - methylphenyl group .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - mecoprop .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 2 -  ( 4 - chloro - 2 - methylphenoxy ) propanoic acid ;  the inactive stereoisomer of the racemic herbicide mecoprop .
a tertiary alcohol that is cyclohexanol substituted at positions 1 and 2 by 3 - methoxyphenyl and dimethylaminomethyl groups respectively .
a 2 -  [  ( dimethylamino ) methyl ]  - 1 -  ( 3 - methoxyphenyl ) cyclohexanol in which both stereocentres have r - configuration ;  the  ( r , r )  - enantiomer of the racemic opioid analgesic tramadol ,  it exhibits ten - fold higher analgesic potency than the  ( s , s )  - enantiomer .
a 2 -  [  ( dimethylamino ) methyl ]  - 1 -  ( 3 - methoxyphenyl ) cyclohexanol in which both stereocentres have s - configuration ;  the  ( s , s )  - enantiomer of the racemic opioid analgesic tramadol ,  it exhibits ten - fold lower analgesic potency than the  ( r , r )  - enantiomer .
a racemate consisting of equal amounts of  ( r , r )  -  and  ( s , s )  - tramadol ( 1 +  )  .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the tertiary amino group of  ( r , r )  - tramadol .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the tertiary amino group of  ( s , s )  - tramadol .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
any of the group of eight water - soluble vitamins originally thought to be a single compound  ( vitamin b )  that play important roles in cell metabolism .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
a compound of iron and sulfate in which the ratio of iron ( 2 +  )  to sulfate ions is 1:1 .
a nitrohydrocarbon that is an alkane in which one of the hydrogens has been replaced by a nitro group .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of sarin ;  the more potent enantiomer of racemic sarin ,  a nerve agent that is employed as a chemical warfare agent .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of sarin ;  the less active enantiomer of racemic sarin ,  a nerve agent that is employed as a chemical warfare agent .
a phosphinic ester that is the isopropyl ester of methylphosphonofluoridic acid .
a ring assembly based on a 1 , 4 - diphenylbenzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives thereof .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with the nitrogen of an indole .
a pyranone based on the structure of 2h - pyran - 2 - one and its substituted derivatives .
a metal oxide that has the formula cuo .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any aromatic amino - acid .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound .
a triarylmethane in which the three aryl groups are phenyl .
any benzenoid aromatic compound containing three aryl groups connected by a single c atom .
a ketone in which the carbonyl group is attached to an aromatic ring .
a member of the class of isoflavans in which one or more ring hydrogens are replaced by hydroxy groups .
a nitroalkane that is propane substituted at c - 1 by a nitro group .
a member of the class of chloroethanes that is ethane in which five of the six hydrogens are replaced by chlorines .
a hydroxy fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any omega - hydroxy fatty acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a nitrosamine that is piperidine in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a nitroso group .
a nitrosamine that is morpholine in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a nitroso group .
a member of the class of azobenzenes that is azobenzene in which one of the phenyl groups is substituted at position 3 by a methyl group ,  while the other is substituted at position 4 by a dimethylamino group .
a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range ,  so contributing to the 'greenhouse effect' .
a compressed gas or liquid with a boiling point lower than room temperature which to used to propel and dispense liquids such as deodorants ,  insecticides ,  paints ,  etc .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
an anionic phospholipid having a phosphate group at sn - 3 position of the glycerol backbone ,  and with a combination of one or two acyl groups ,  alkyl groups ,  or alkenyl groups attached at the sn - 1 and sn - 2 positions through ester ,  ether or vinyl linkages respectively .
a nitroso compound that is any urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by a nitroso group
any unsaturated fatty acid anion containing more than one c - c unsaturated bond .
any protective agent that is able to prevent damage to the kidney .
a bridged organochlorine compound resulting from the diels - alder reaction of hexachlorocyclopentadiene with maleic anhydride followed by hydrolysis of the resulting anhydride .
an ec 2 .7 .10 .*  ( protein - tyrosine kinase )  inhibitor that specifically blocks the action of non - specific protein - tyrosine kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .10 .2 )  .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any omega - methyl fatty acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any member of the class of lysophosphatidic acids which has a free hydroxy group at the 2 - position of the glycerol moiety .
a transferase inhibitor inhibiting the action of transferase of a one - carbon - containing group  ( ec 2 .1 .* .
a transferase inhibitor interfering with the action of any transferase that transfers an aldehyde or ketone group  ( ec 2 .2 .* .
a transferase inhibitor that interferes with the action of an acyltransferase  ( ec 2 .3 .* .
a transferase inhibitor inhibiting the action of a glycosyltransferase  ( ec 2 .4 .* .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the transfer of an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the action of a phosphorus - containing group transferase  ( ec 2 .7 .* .
an isomerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of an intramolecular oxidoreductase  ( ec 5 .3 .* .
an isomerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of an intramolecular transferase  ( ec 5 .4 .* .
an isomerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any member of the group of 'other isomerases'  ( ec 5 .99 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of a lyase  ( ec 4 .* .* .* )  .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - c lyase  ( ec 4 .1 .* .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - o lyase  ( ec 4 .2 .* .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - n lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .* .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a p - o lyase  ( ec 4 .6 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - oh group of donors  ( ec 1 .1 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the aldehyde or oxo group of donors  ( ec 1 .2 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - ch group of donors  ( ec 1 .3 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - nh2 group of donors  ( ec 1 .4 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - nh group of donors  ( ec 1 .5 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on  nadh or nadph  ( ec 1 .6 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase of class ec 1 .8 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on a heme group of donors  ( ec 1 .9 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on diphenols and related substances as donors  ( ec 1 .10 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on peroxide as donors  ( ec 1 .11 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen  ( oxygenases )  ,  ec 1 .13 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on hydrogen as donors  ( ec 1 .14 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2  ( ec 1 .17 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any glycosylase  ( ec 3 .2 .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylic ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphoric monoester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .
any ec 3 .4 .21 .*  ( serine endopeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of prolyl oligopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .21 .26 )  .
any ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of a peptidyl dipeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .15 .
an ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that interferes wtih the action of any aminopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .11 .
an ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any dipeptidyl -  and tripeptidyl - peptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .14 .
an ec 2 .4 .*  ( glycosyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any pentosyltransferase  ( ec 2 .4 .2 .
an ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any cysteine endopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .22 .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a glutathione transferase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .18 )  .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide cyclic amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .2 .
an ec 3 .1 .4 .*  ( phosphoric diester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .4 .12 )  .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any protein - serine / threonine kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any nucleotidyltransferase  ( ec 2 .7 .7 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with any enzyme in the ec 2 .7 .8 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any protein - tyrosine kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .10 .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any acid - ammonia  ( or amine )  ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .
an ec 6 .4 .*  ( c - c bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylating enzyme  ( ec 6 .4 .1 .
an ec 5 .4 .*  ( intramolecular transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any intramolecular transferase transferring amino groups  ( ec 5 .4 .3 .
an ec 5 .99 .*  ( other isomerases )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any enzyme in the ec 5 .99 .1 .
an ec 4 .3 .*  ( c - n lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .
an ec 2 .5 .*  ( transferase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any transferase that transfers an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .
an ec 1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group )  inhibitor that uses nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .
an ec 1 .13 .*  [ oxidoreductase acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen  ( oxygenases )  ]  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any oxidoreductase incorporating 2 atoms of oxygen  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme incorporating one atom of oxygen and using reduced flavin or flavoprotein as donor  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any enzyme in the ec 1 .14 .99 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme incorporating one atom of oxygen and using nadh or nadph as one donor  ( ec 1 .14 .13 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using a miscellaneous compound as one donor and incorporating one atom of oxygen  ( ec 1 .14 .18 .
an ec 1 .17 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2 )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any such enzyme that uses a disulfide as acceptor  ( ec 1 .17 .4 .
an ec 1 .2 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .2 .1 .
an ec 1 .2 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .2 .3 .
an ec 1 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .
an ec 1 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of any such enzyme in the ec 1 .3 .98 .
an ec 1 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .3 .3 .
an ec 1 .4 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh2 group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .4 .3 .
an ec 1 .5 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .5 .1 .
an ec 1 .6 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on nadh or nadph )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using a quinone or similar as acceptor  ( ec 1 .6 .5 .
an ec 1 .8 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on sulfur group of donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .8 .1 .
an ec 1 .9 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .
an ec 2 .1 .*  ( c1 - transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any methyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .1 .
an ec 2 .1 .*  ( c1 - transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .
an ec 2 .2 .*  ( aldehyde or ketone transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any  ( transketolase or transaldolase  ( ec 2 .2 .1 .
an ec 2 .3 .*  ( acyltransferase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any acyltransferase transferring groups other than amino - acyl groups  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphotransferase with an alcohol group as acceptor  ( ec 2 .7 .1 .
an ec 3 .4 .11 .*  ( aminopeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cytosol alanyl aminopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .11 .14 )  .
an ec 3 .4 .14 .*  ( dipeptidyl -  and tripeptidyl - peptidases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of dipeptidyl - peptidase ii  ( ec 3 .4 .14 .2 )  .
an ec 3 .6 .*  ( hydrolases acting on acid anhydrides )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme that catalyses transmembrane movement of substances  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .
an ec 1 .14 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating of 1 atom of oxygen ,  with reduced flavin or flavoprotein as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of an unspecified monooxygenase  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .1 )  .
an ec 4 .1 .*  ( c - c lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any carboxy - lyase  ( ec 4 .1 .1 .
an ec 4 .2 .*  ( c - o lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydro - lyase  ( ec 4 .2 .1 .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in plants ,  the kingdom that include flowering plants ,  conifers and other gymnosperms .
an ec 3 .4 .13 .*  ( dipeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of membrane dipeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .13 .19 )  .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 2 , 3 - saturated fatty acid .
any fatty acid in which the first two carbons of the chain attached to the carboxy group are saturated and unbranched .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with one or more steps in a metabolic pathway .
an ec 3 .6 .*  ( hydrolases acting on acid anhydrides )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme acting on atp and involved in cellular and subcellular movement  ( ec 3 .6 .4 .
an ec 3 .6 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on atp ;  involved in cellular and subcellular movement )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a non - chaperonin molecular chaperone atpase  ( ec 3 .6 .4 .10 )  .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in the mould ,  aspergillus .
any fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in penicillium .
any human metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in humans .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
any bacterial metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in bacteria .
a urea in which one of the hydrogens attached to a nitrogen of the urea group is replaced by a sulfonyl group .
a synthetic or semi - synthetic compound that has oestrogenic activity .
any compound produced by a plant that happens to have estrogenic activity .
an ec 1 .10 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on diphenols and related substances as donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme in the ec 1 .10 .99 .
an ec 1 .10 .99 .*  ( oxidoreductases acting on diphenols and related substances as donors ,  other acceptors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of ribosyldihydronicotinamide dehydrogenase  ( quinone )  ,  ec 1 .10 .99 .2 .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of 4 - nitrophenylphosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .41 )  .
compounds that are considered to increase the volume of secretions in the respiratory tract ,  so facilitating their removal by ciliary action and coughing .
an organic cation that is the conjugate acid of tylosin ,  obtained by protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 4 .3 .1 .*  ( ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of serine - sulfate ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .10 )  .
an ec 1 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using a quinone or related compound as acceptor  ( ec 1 .3 .5 .
an ec 2 .1 .1 .*  ( methyltransferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of 3' - hydroxy - n - methyl -  ( s )  - coclaurine 4' - o - methyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .1 .116 )  .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of prostaglandin - e2 9 - reductase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .189 )  .
a 3 - oxo - delta ( 1 )  steroid containing an additional double bond between positions 4 and 5 .
a dye used in microscopic or electron microscopic examination of cells and tissues to give contrast and to highlight particular features of interest ,  such as nuclei and cytoplasm .
a food additive that imparts colour to food .
an ec 2 .7 .1 .*  ( phosphotransferases with an alcohol group as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of pantothenate kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .1 .33 )  .
an ec 3 .4 .24 .*  ( metalloendopeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of anthrax lethal factor endopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .24 .83 )  .
an imidazothiazole that is imidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ]  [ 1 , 3 ] thiazole in which the double bonds at the 2 - 3 and 5 - 6 positions have been reduced to single bonds and in which one of the hydrogens at position 6 is replaced by a phenyl group .
a 6 - phenyl - 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydroimidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ]  [ 1 , 3 ] thiazole that has r configuration .
any protective agent that is able to prevent damage to the heart .
a member of the class of dithiocarbamate anions resulting from the deprotonation of both of the dithiocarbamic acid moieties of ethylenebis ( dithiocarbamic acid )  .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of rosuvastatin ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates androstane receptors .
a benzodiazepine that is 10h - thieno [ 2 , 3 - b ]  [ 1 , 5 ] benzodiazepine substituted by a methyl group at position 2 and a 4 - methylpiperazin - 1 - yl group at position 4 .
any member of the class of phosphonic acids in which a carbon atom is directly attached to two phosphonic acid groups .
a nitrile that is 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 - benzofuran - 5 - carbonitrile in which one of the hydrogens at position 1 is replaced by a p - fluorophenyl group ,  while the other is replaced by a 3 -  ( dimethylamino ) propyl group .
an ec 1 .8 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on sulfur group of donors ,  nad +  or nadp +  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of trypanothione - disulfide reductase  ( ec 1 .8 .1 .12 )  .
a 3 -  [ 5 - cyano - 1 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl )  - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 - benzofuran - 1 - yl ]  - n , n - dimethylpropan - 1 - aminium resulting from the protonation of the tertiary amino group of  ( r )  - citalopram .
a 3 -  [ 5 - cyano - 1 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl )  - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 - benzofuran - 1 - yl ]  - n , n - dimethylpropan - 1 - aminium resulting from the protonation of the tertiary amino group of escitalopram .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the tertiary amino group of  1 -  [ 3 -  ( dimethylamino ) propyl ]  - 1 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl )  - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 - benzofuran - 5 - carbonitrile .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of prostaglandin - f synthase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .188 )  .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any dicarboxylic acid monoamide ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of shikimate dehydrogenase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .25 )  .
a secondary alcohol that is 2 - butanol carrying an additional methyl substituent at position 3 .
any product obtained as a result of thermally induced non - enzymatic degradation .
any thermal degradation product obtained as a result of a chemical reaction between an amino acid and a reducing sugar  ( maillard reaction ,  a non - enzymatic browning procedure that usually imparts flavour to starch - based food products )  .
an sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate ( 2 -  )  resulting from partial hydrolysis of a phosphatidate ,  which removes one of the fatty acid groups .
a diuretic that acts on the ascending loop of henle in the kidney .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of 1 - deoxy - d - xylulose - 5 - phosphate reductoisomerase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .267 )  .
a formate ester resulting from the formal condensation of formic acid with methanol .
an acetate ester resulting from the formal condensation of acetic acid with methanol .
a primary nitroalkane that is methane in which one of the hydrogens is replace by a nitro group .
an ec 4 .3 .1 .*  ( ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of histidine ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .3 )  .
any ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any omega - peptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .19 .
an ec 3 .4 .19 .*  ( omega - peptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of pyroglutamyl - peptidase i  ( ec 3 .4 .19 .3 )  .
a drug used to relieve nasal congestion in the upper respiratory tract .
a tertiary amino compound that is 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenylethylamine in which the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen are replaced by a methyl group and a 4 - cyano - 4 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl )  - 5 - methylhexyl group .
a 2 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl )  - 5 - { [ 2 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl ) ethyl ]  ( methyl ) amino} - 2 -  ( propan - 2 - yl ) pentanenitrile that has r configuration .
a 2 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl )  - 5 - { [ 2 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl ) ethyl ]  ( methyl ) amino} - 2 -  ( propan - 2 - yl ) pentanenitrile that has s configuration .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the tertiary amino group of dexverapamil .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the tertiary amino group of  ( s )  - verapamil .
an ec 3 .4 .24 .*  ( metalloendopeptidase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of meprin a  ( ec 3 .4 .24 .18 )  .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of phospholipid - translocating atpase  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .1 )  .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of xenobiotic - transporting atpase  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .44 )  .
a flavonoid oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the 7 - hydroxy group of daidzein .
a monothiocarbamic ester that is carbamothioic s - acid substituted by two ethyl groups at the nitrogen atom and a 2 - chlorobenzyl group at the the sulfur atom .
a highly complex mixture of several hundred polychlorinated compounds obtained by chlorination of camphene to an overall chlorine content of 67 - 69% by weight and having an overall empirical formula of c10h10cl8  ( including optical isomers ,  it could theoretically contain over 32 , 000 congeners )  .
any environmental contaminant that is resistant to environmental degradation through photolytic ,  biological or chemical processes .
an ec 4 .3 .1 .*  ( ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of diaminopropionate ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .15 )  .
an ec 1 .14 .13 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating 1 atom of oxygen ,  with nadh or nadph as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of ec 1 .14 .13 .70  ( sterol 14alpha - demethylase )  .
an aci - nitro compound that is the predominant form of ethylnitronate at ph 7 .3  ( according to marvin v 6 .2 .0 .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the 2 - hydroxy group to the 1 - amino group of tetracycline .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
a food additive that is used to make or keep fruit or vegetable tissues firm and crisp .
an antioxidant that used as a food additives to help guard against food deterioration .
a food additive that is used to preserve the structure of food .
a food additive that is used to increase the viscosity of foodstuffs .
a food additive which liberates gas so as to increase the volume of a dough or batter ,  resulting in a lighter and softer finished product .
a food additive that is a  ( generally inert )  gas which is used to envelop foodstuffs during packing and so protect them from unwanted chemical reactions such as food spoilage or oxidation during subsequent transport and storage .
a cyclohexenecarboxylate ester that is the ethyl ester of oseltamivir acid .
a food additive that is used for the purpose of decolourising food .
a food additive that enhances the texture of a foodstuff by gel formation .
a propellant that is used to expel foods from an aerosol container .
a fatty acid anion containing 18 carbons and one double bond .
a long - chain unsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexadecenoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 3 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 4 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 6 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 8 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 10 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 12 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 14 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 16 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 24 carbons .
any monoacylglycerol 3 - phosphate ( 2 -  )  which has a free hydroxy group at the 2 - position of the glycerol moiety .
any glycero - 3 - monophosphate carrying a single acyl substituent in an unspecified position  ( sn - 1 ,  sn - 2 or sn - 3 )  .
an anionic phospholipid having a phosphate group at sn - 1 or sn - 3 position of the glycerol backbone ,  and with a combination of one or two acyl groups ,  alkyl groups ,  or alkenyl groups  attached at the sn - 1 ,  sn - 2 ,  or sn - 3 positions through ester ,  ether or vinyl linkages respectively .
an alkylacylglycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the alkyl and acyl groups are located at positions 1 and 2 respectively .
a glycerophosphocholine that is glycero - 3 - phosphocholine carrying one alkyl and one acyl group in unspecified positions .
a 1 , 4 - benzodiazepinone that is 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2h - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepin - 2 - one substituted by a chloro group at position 7 ,  a hydroxy group at position 3 and phenyl group at position 5 .
a monoacyl - sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate in which the acyl group is specified as octadecenoyl and is attached at either sn - 1 or sn - 2 position ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
any unwanted chemical in food .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is propanoic acid in which one of the alpha - hydrogens is replaced by a hydroxy group .
an isothiocyanate having a methyl group attached to the nitrogen .
an ec 2 .7 .1 .*  ( phosphotransferases with an alcohol group as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of hexokinase ,  ec 2 .7 .1 .1 ,  an enzyme that phosphorylates hexoses forming hexose phosphate .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
any ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of carboxylesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .1  )  .
a member of the class of phenothiazines that is 4ah - phenothiazine substituted by dimethylamino groups at positions 3 and 7 .
a protein kinase agonist that selectively binds to and activates a protein kinase a receptor
any agonist of one or more of the isoforms of adenylate cyclase  ( ec 4 .6 .1 .1 )  .
any compound that causes severe skin ,  eye and mucosal pain and irritation .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
a retinoate that is the conjugate base of 9 - cis - retinoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a chromanol that is chromane in which the hydrogen at position 6 is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a peroxol that is cumene in which the alpha - hydrogen is replaced by a hydroperoxy group .
any metabolite produced by all living cells .
an ec 4 .6 .*  ( p - o lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of enzyme guanylate cyclase  ( ec 4 .6 .1 .2 )  .
a benzenetriol that is phenethylamine in which the hydrogens at positions 2 ,  4 ,  and 5 on the phenyl ring are replaced by hydroxy groups .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of myosin - light - chain kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .18 )  .
a carbamate ester that is the methyl ester of  [ 2 -  ( { [ 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 1h - pyrazol - 3 - yl ] oxy}methyl ) phenyl ] methoxycarbamic acid .
any organic acid in which both oxygens of a carbamic acid have been replaced by sulfur .
a family of plant metabolites with a common 1 , 7 - diphenylheptane structural skeleton ,  carrying various substituents .
an animal metabolite produced by any member of the phylum nematoda .
a nematode metabolite produced by caenorhabditis elegans .
any organic molecular entity that contains at least one c=c bond .
an inorganic sodium salt having nitrite as the counterion .
an organosulfonate salt that is the tetrasodium salt of 3 , 3' -  [  ( 3 , 3' - dimethylbiphenyl - 4 , 4' - diyl ) didiazene - 2 , 1 - diyl ] bis ( 5 - amino - 4 - hydroxynaphthalene - 2 , 7 - disulfonic acid )  .
an organosulfonate oxoanion that is the tetraanionic form of trypan blue .
an aminonaphthalenesulfonic acid that is the free acid form of trypan blue dye .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of l - canavanine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a long - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexadecanoic acid  ( palmitic acid )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate acid of  ( r )  - nicotine arising from selective protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carbon of the carboxy group is directly attached to a c=c or c#c bond .
any compound that is used as an additive to increase the plasticity or fluidity of a substance ,  particularly but not exclusively to synthetic polymers .
a member of the class of  benzimidazoles that is 1h - benzimidazole substituted by a difluoromethoxy group at position 5 and a  [  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxypyridin - 2 - yl ) methyl ] sulfinyl group at position 2 .
any compound that is added to manufactured materials to inhibit ,  suppress ,  or delay the production of flames and so prevent the spread of fire .
a benzoate ester that is an ester of 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid .
any inorganic anion with a valency of three .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
a peptidoglycosaminoglycan formed by alternating residues of beta -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked n - acetylglucosamine and n - acetylmuramic acid {2 - amino - 3 - o -  [  ( s )  - 1 - carboxyethyl ]  - 2 - deoxy - d - glucose} residues .
a phenothiazine derivative in which the phenothiazine tricycle carries a chloro substituent at the 2 - position and a 3 -  [ 4 -  ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) piperazin - 1 - yl ] propyl group at n - 10 .
any nitrile derived from an aliphatic compound .
a member of the class of biphenyls that is 1 , 1' - biphenyl in which the hydrogen at the para - position of each phenyl group has been replaced by an amino group .
a monocarboxylic acid that is the o - phenyl derivative of glycolic acid .
a  phenylenediamine  taht is benzene substituted at positions 1 and 3 with amino functions .
a member of the class of the class of phenylethanolamines that is  ( 1r )  - 2 -  ( methylamino )  - 1 - phenylethan - 1 - ol carrying an additional hydroxy substituent at position 3 on the phenyl ring .
a imidazolidine - 2 , 4 - dione that consists of hydantoin bearing two phenyl substituents at position 5 .
a diterpenoid with the structure of tigliane hydroxylated at c - 4 ,   - 9 ,   - 12 ( beta )  ,   - 13 and  - 20 ,  with an oxo group at c - 3 and unsaturation at the 1 -  and 6 - positions .
a polymer comprising ethylenebis ( dithiocarbamate )  units and  ( ammonia ) zinc ( ii )  .
a polybromodiphenyl ether that is diphenyl ether in which the hydrogens at the 2 ,  4 ,  5 ,  2' ,  and 4' positions have been replaced by bromines .
a carbamate ester that is methyl carbamate substituted by a  ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl group at the nitrogen atom .
a carbamate ester that is phenylcarbamic acid in which the hydrogen of the hydroxy group has been replaced by a 3 -  [  ( ethoxycarbonyl ) amino ] phenyl group .
a carbamate ester that is  ( 3 - methylphenyl ) carbamic acid in which the hydrogen of the hydroxy group has been replaced by a 3 -  [  ( methoxycarbonyl ) amino ] phenyl group .
a diastereoisomeric mixture composed of the enantiomeric pair  ( 2r , 3s )  -  and  ( 2s , 3r )  - cyproconazole in ratio 1:1 with the enantiomeric pair  ( 2r , 3r )  -  and  ( 2s , 3s )  - cyproconazole .
a member of the class of dioxolanes that is 1 , 3 - dioxolane substituted at position 2 by 2 - chloro - 4 -  ( 4 - chlorophenoxy ) phenyl and 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl groups .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - tebuconazole .
a member of the class of ureas that is urea in which the two nitrogen atoms are substituted by an ethyl group and a 2 - cyano - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetyl group respectively .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - dimethenamid .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  - fluazipop  ( the active enantiomer ,  also known as fluazifop - p )  and  ( s )  - fluazifop  ( the inactive enantiomer )  .
a monocarboxylic acid that is butyric acid substituted by a 2 - methyl - 4 - chlorophenoxy group at position 4 .
a racemate coprising equimolar amounts of  quizalofop - p - ethyl and its enantiomer ,   ( s )  - quizalofop - ethyl .
an ethyl ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of trinexapac with ethanol .
a  nitrile that is benzonitrile substituted by a hydroxy group at position 4 and iodo groups at positions 3 and 5 .
a pyridinecarboxamide obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of 2 - chloronicotinic acid with the amino group of 4' - chlorobiphenyl - 2 - amine .
a pyridinecarboxamide that is pyridine - 3 - carboxamide substituted by a 2 , 4 - difluorophenyl group at the carbamoyl nitrogen and a 3 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenoxy group at position 2 .
a pyridazinone that is pyridazin - 3 ( 2h )  - one substituted by an amino group at position 5 ,  a chloro group at position 4 and a phenyl group at position 2 .
a member of the class of aminopyridines that is 2 - amino - 5 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) pyridine in which one of the amino hydrogens is replaced by a 3 - chloro - 2 , 6 - dinitro - 4 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl group .
a mixture of  ( e )  -  and  ( z )  - dimethomorph in an unspecified ratio .
a methoxybenzoic acid that is o - methylsalicylic acid substituted by chloro groups at positions 3 and 6 .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( s )  -  and  ( r )  - imazamox .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - diclofop .
an organochlorine compound that is 2 - chloroacetamide substituted by a 2 - methoxyethyl and a 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl group at the nitrogen atom .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - fenpropidin .
an aromatic amide that is acetamide in which the amino hydrogens have been replaced by a propan - 2 - yl and 4 - fluorophenyl groups while the methyl hydrogen is replaced by a  [ 5 -  ( trifluoromethyl )  - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 - yl ] oxy group .
an organosilicon compound that is dimethylsilane in which the hydrogens attached to the silicon are replaced by p - fluorophenyl groups and a hydrogen attached to one of the methyl groups is replaced by a 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl group .
an n - sulfonylcarboxamide that is n -  ( methylsulfonyl ) benzamide in which the phenyl ring is substituted by a nitro group at position 2 and a 2 - chloro - 4 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenoxy group at position 5 .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - enilconazole .
a dithiocarbamate salt that is the disodium salt of ethylenebis ( dithiocarbamic acid )  .
a chloropyridine that is 2 - chloropyridine which is substituted by a trichloromethyl group at position 6 .
a member of the class of 1 , 2 - thiazole that is 1 , 2 - thiazol - 3 - one substituted on the nitrogen  ( position 2 )  by an octyl group .
a dicarboximide that captan in which the trichloromethyl group is replaced by a 1 , 1 , 2 , 2 - tetrachloroethyl group .
a monothiocarbamic ester that is carbamothioic s - acid substituted by two propyl groups at the nitrogen atom and a benzyl group at the the sulfur atom .
a sulfonamide obtained by the formal condensation of perfluorooctane - 1 - sulfonic acid with  ethylamine .
a diamino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is n - tert - butyl - n' - ethyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine substituted by a methoxy group at position 6 .
an n - sulfonylurea that is urea in which one of the nitrogens has been substituted by a  ( 2 - carboxyphenyl ) sulfonyl group ,  while the other has been substituted by a 4 - chloro - 6 - methoxypyrimidin - 2 - yl group .
a member of the class of phenylureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by two methyl groups while the other is substituted by a 3 - chloro - 4 - methylphenyl group .
a racemate comprising of equimolar amounts of  ( s )  -  and  ( r )  - ethofumesate .
an aminopyridine that is pyridin - 4 - amine substituted by chloro groups at positions 3 and 5 ,  a fluoro group at position 6 and a carboxymethoxy group at position 2 .
a member of the class of phthalimides that is phthalimide in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a trichloromethylthio group .
a diastereoisomeric mixture comprising equimolar amounts of l -  ( r )  -  and l -  ( s )  - iprovalicarb .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( s )  -  and  ( r )  - napropamide .
a carbamate ester that is the propyl ester of 3 -  ( dimethylamino ) propylcarbamic acid .
a quinoxaline derivative used as systemic herbicide for annual and perennial grasses .
a monocarboxylic acid amide that is propanamide substituted by a benzyl and an isopropyl group at the nitrogen atom and two methyl groups at position 2 .
a member of the class of triazenes that is dichlorotriazene in which the hydrogen is replaced by an o - chloroanilino group .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - 1 , 2 - dichloropropane .
a diamino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is n - ethyl - n' -  ( propan - 2 - yl )  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine substituted by a methoxy group at position 6 .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - secbumeton .
an ether that is dimethyl ether in which one of the hydrogens attached to each of the methyl group has replaced by a chlorine .
an organochlorine compound that is toluene in which all three hydrogens of the methyl group have been replaced by chlorines .
a substituted aniline that is aniline in which the hydrogen ortho to the amino group has been replaced by a methoxy group .
a polybromodiphenyl ether that is diphenyl ether in which all of the hydrogens have been replaced by bromines .
an aminopyrimidine that is n , n , 4 , 5 - tetramethylpyrimidin - 2 - amine substituted by a  ( dimethylcarbamoyl ) oxy group at position 4 .
a chromophore that is a linear tetrapyrrolic prosthetic group covalently attached to a large soluble protein phytochrome .
an elemental molecular entity in which all of the atoms have atomic number 26 .
any unsaturated fatty acid anion with one double or triple bond in the fatty acid chain .
an aryl thiol is a thiol in which a sulfanyl group ,  sh ,  is attached to an aryl group .
a  hydroxy - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone that is 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 5 are substituted by methyl and hydroxy groups ,  respectively .
any aldoxime derived from an aliphatic aldehyde .
an alanine derivative that is methyl alaninate in which one of the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen is substituted by a methoxyacetyl group ,  while the other is substituted by a 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl group .
a methyl n -  ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl )  - n -  ( methoxyacetyl ) alaninate that is the less active s - enantiomer of metalaxyl .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen of the dimethylaminoethyl substituent of diltiazem .
a 5 -  [ 2 -  ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ]  - 2 -  ( 4 - methoxyphenyl )  - 4 - oxo - 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydro - 1 , 5 - benzothiazepin - 3 - yl acetate in which both stereocentres have r configuration .
a lactam that is 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 , 5 - benzothiazepin - 4 ( 5h )  - one in which positions 2 and 3 are substituted by 4 - methoxyphenyl and acetoxy ,  respectively ,  while the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is substituted by a 2 -  ( dimethylamino ) ethyl group .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen of the dimethylaminoethyl substituent of ent - diltiazem .
a dicarboximide that is phthalimide or derivatives obtained from it by the formal replacement of one or more hydrogens .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia galeata .
an animal metabolite produced by arthropods such as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimps and krill .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia magna .
a crustacean metabolite produced by the genus of small planktonic arthropods ,  daphnia
any salt derived from a member of the class of dithiocarbamic acids by the formal replacement of the hydrogen of the dithiocarboxy group by a metal .
a member of the class of dithiocarbamic acids that is dimethylcarbamic acid in which both of the oxygens are replaced by sulfur .
an ec 1 .3 .5 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch - ch of donor with a quinone or related compound as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of succinate dehydrogenase  ( quinone )  ,  ec 1 .3 .5 .1 .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia tenebrosa .
a carbamate ester that is carbamic acid in which the nitrogen has been substituted by a butyl group and in which the hydrogen of the carboxy group is replaced by a 1 - iodoprop - 2 - yn - 3 - yl group .
a member of the class of piperidines that is n - isobutylpiperidine in which a hydrogen of one of the methyl groups is replaced by a p - tert - butylphenyl group .
a 1 -  [ 3 -  ( 4 - tert - butylphenyl )  - 2 - methylpropyl ] piperidine that has r configuration .
a 1 -  [ 3 -  ( 4 - tert - butylphenyl )  - 2 - methylpropyl ] piperidine that has s configuration .
any compound that inhibits the biosynthesis of any sterol .
an ec 1 .3 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of delta ( 14 )  - sterol reductase  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .70 )  .
a member of the class of pyrazoles in which one of the carbons of the pyrazole ring is substituted by an oxo group .
an ester resulting from the formal condensation of the hydroxy group of an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol with an organosulfonic acid .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - meptyldinocap .
an enoate ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of 3 - methylacrylic acid with the phenolic hydroxy group of 2 , 4 - dinitro - 6 -  ( octan - 2 - yl ) phenol .
a 2 , 4 - dinitro - 6 -  ( octan - 2 - yl ) phenyl  ( e )  - but - 2 - enoate that is the  ( r )  - enantiomer of meptyldinocap .
a 2 , 4 - dinitro - 6 -  ( octan - 2 - yl ) phenyl  ( e )  - but - 2 - enoate that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of meptyldinocap .
a multi - component mixture comprising 2 , 6 - dinitro - 4 - octanylphenyl and 2 , 4 - dinitro - 6 - octanylphenyl esters of  ( 2e )  - but - 2 - enoic acid in which 'octanyl' is a mixture of octan - 2 - yl ,  octan - 3 - yl and octan - 4 - yl groups .
a mixture of 2 , 6 - dinitro - 4 - octylphenyl crotonates in which 'octyl' is a mixture of 1 - methylheptyl ,  1 - ethylhexyl and 1 - propylpentyl groups .
a mixture of 2 , 4 - dinitro - 6 - octylphenyl crotonates in which 'octyl' is a mixture of 1 - methylheptyl ,  1 - ethylhexyl and 1 - propylpentyl groups .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes in which a benzene ring is substituted by five chloro groups .
a member of the class of pyrazoles that is 1h - pyrazole that is substituted at positions 1 ,  3 ,  4 ,  and 5 by 2 , 6 - dichloro - 4 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ,  cyano ,   ( trifluoromethyl ) sulfinyl ,  and amino groups ,  respectively .
a 5 - amino - 1 -  [ 2 , 6 - dichloro - 4 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ]  - 4 -  [  ( trifluoromethyl ) sulfinyl ]  - 1h - pyrazole - 3 - carbonitrile that has r configuration at the sulfoxide .
a 5 - amino - 1 -  [ 2 , 6 - dichloro - 4 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ]  - 4 -  [  ( trifluoromethyl ) sulfinyl ]  - 1h - pyrazole - 3 - carbonitrile that has s configuration at the sulfoxide .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring in which only one substituent is chlorine .
a primary ammonium ion obtained by protonation of the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ester ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organosulfate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the sulfo group of any alkyl sulfate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an enamide resulting from the formal condensation of  ( 2e )  - 3 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 3 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl ) acrylic acid with the amino group of morpholine .
an enamide resulting from the formal condensation of  ( 2z )  - 3 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 3 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl ) acrylic acid with the amino group of morpholine .
a  pyrimidone that is pyrimidin - 4 ( 1h )  - one substituted by a methyl group at position 6 and an isopropyl group at position 2 .
a methyl ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of thifensulfuron with methanol .
a monocarboxylic acid that is 3 , 5 - dioxocyclohexanecarboxylic acid substituted by a cyclopropyl ( hydroxy ) methylidene group at position 4 .
a member of the class of  benzotriazoles that is 1h - benzotriazole substituted by a methyl group at position 5 .
an  aromatic ketone that is cyclohexane - 1 , 3 - dione substituted by a 2 - chloro - 4 -  ( methylsulfonyl ) benzoyl group at position 2 .
a monocarboxylic acid that is perfluorinated pentanoic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid that is perfluorinated hexanoic acid .
a fluoroalkanoic acid that is perfluorinated undecanoic acid .
a fluorotelomer that is oct - 2 - enoic acid substituted by fluoro groups at positions 3 ,  4 ,  4 ,  5 ,  5 , 6 ,  6 ,  7 ,  7 ,  8 ,  8 and 8 respectively .
a fluorotelomer that is dec - 2 - enoic acid substituted by fluoro groups at positions 3 ,  4 ,  4 ,  5 ,  5 ,  6 ,  6 ,  7 ,  7 ,  8 ,  8 ,  9 ,  9 ,  10 ,  10 and 10 respectively .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - climbazole .
a sulfonamide  that is benzenesulfonamide substituted by a trifluoromethyl group at position 2 and a  [ 4 - methoxy - 6 -  ( trifluoromethyl )  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl ] carbamoyl group at the nitrogen atom .
a sulfamate ester that is 1 , 2 , 3 - oxathiazin - 4 ( 3h )  - one 2 , 2 - dioxide substituted by a methyl group at position 6 .
a member of the class of  benzamides that is n , n - dimethylbenzamide substituted by a formylamino group at position 4 and a  [  ( 4 , 6 - dimethoxypyrimidin - 2 - yl ) carbamoyl ] sulfamoyl group at position 2 .
a dipeptide composed of n -  ( 3 , 3 - dimethylbutyl )  - l - aspartic acid and methyl l - phenylalanate units joined by a peptide linkage .
a monocarboxylic acid that is  ( sulfoamino ) acetic acid substituted by a heptadecafluorooctyl group at the sulfur atom .
a sulfonamide that is the n - methyl derivative of perfluorooctane sulfonamidoacetic acid .
a sulfonamide that is the n - ethyl derivative of perfluorooctane sulfonamidoacetic acid .
a monoalkyl phosphate that is 3 , 3 , 4 , 4 , 5 , 5 , 6 , 6 , 7 , 7 , 8 , 8 , 8 - tridecafluorooctan - 1 - ol in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is substituted by a phosphate group .
an  organoiodine compound that is 2 , 4 , 6 - triiodobenzoic acid substituted by an acetylamino group at position 3 and a  ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) carbamoyl group at position 5 .
a 1 , 2 - thiazole that is 1 , 2 - thiazol - 3 ( 2h )  - one substituted by chloro groups at positions 4 and 5 and an octyl group at position 2 .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - sebuthylazine .
a monocarboxylic acid amide that is acetamide substituted by a chloro group at position 2 and a  2 - ethoxyethyl and a 2 - methyl - 1 - phenylprop - 1 - en - 1 - yl at the nitrogen atom .
a pyrazolooxadiazepine that is 7 - oxo - 1 , 2 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydro - 7h - pyrazolo [ 1 , 2 - d ]  [ 1 , 4 , 5 ] oxadiazepin which is substituted at positions 8 and 9 by 2 , 6 - diethyl - 4 - methylphenyl and pivaloyloxy groups ,  respectively .
a member of the class of  benzamides that is benzamide substituted by a chloro group at position 4 and a 2 -  ( morpholin - 4 - yl ) ethyl group at the nitrogen atom .
a member of the  dihydrochalcones that is 3 , 2' , 4' , 6' - tetrahydroxy - 4 - methoxydihydrochalcone attached to a neohesperidosyl residue at position 4' via glycosidic linkage .
a n - arylpiperazine that is piperazine substituted by a 3 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl group at position 1 .
a tertiary amino compound that is piperazine substituted by a benzyl group at position 1 .
a dialkyl phosphate in which the alkyl group specified is perfluorooctyl .
a pyridinium ion that is 1 - methylpyridinium substituted by a  ( hydroxyimino ) methyl group at position 2 .
a dialkyl phosphate in which the alkyl group specified is perfluorodecyl .
a monoalkyl phosphate in which the alkyl group specified is perfluorodecyl .
any alkane having a chain length of at least 13 carbon atoms .
an organofluorine compound that is  ( trifluoromethyl ) benzene and derivatives arising from substitution of one or more of the phenyl hydrogens .
a member of the class of substituted anilines that is n -  ( pentan - 3 - yl ) aniline bearing two additional nitro substituents at positions 2 and 6 as well as two methyl substituents at positions 3 and 4 .
an n - sulfonylurea that is n -  ( 2 - carboxybenzenesulfonyl ) urea bearing additional methyl and 4 - methoxy - 6 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl substituents at position n3 .
any member of the class of fluorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring carrying a single fluorine substitutent .
any member of the class of fluorobenzenes carrying three fluorine substituents at unspecified positions .
the stereoisomer of isopropyl  ( 3 - methyl - 1 - { [ 1 -  ( 4 - methylphenyl ) ethyl ] amino} - 1 - oxobutan - 2 - yl ) carbamate resulting from the formal condensation of l - valine n ( alpha )  - isopropyl carbamate with  ( 1r )  - 1 -  ( p - tolyl ) ethylamine .
the stereoisomer of isopropyl  ( 3 - methyl - 1 - { [ 1 -  ( 4 - methylphenyl ) ethyl ] amino} - 1 - oxobutan - 2 - yl ) carbamate resulting from the formal condensation of l - valine n ( alpha )  - isopropyl carbamate with  ( 1s )  - 1 -  ( p - tolyl ) ethylamine .
a carbamate ester that is valinamide in which one of the hydrogens attached to the amide nitrogen is replaced by a 1 -  ( p - tolyl ) ethyl group and the alpha - amino group has been converted to the corresponding isopropyl carbamate .
a monocarboxylic acid that is propanoic acid substituted by a 4 - { [ 5 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) pyridin - 2 - yl ] oxy}phenoxy group at position 2 .
a 2 -  ( 4 - { [ 5 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) pyridin - 2 - yl ] oxy}phenoxy ) propanoic acid that has r configuration .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 2 -  ( 4 - { [ 5 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) pyridin - 2 - yl ] oxy}phenoxy ) propanoic acid .
a carboxamide obtained by the formal condensation of the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid with ammonia .
a dinitrophenol that is 2 , 4 - dinitrophenol substituted by a butan - 2 - yl group at position 2 .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 2 -  ( butan - 2 - yl )  - 4 , 6 - dinitrophenol .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 2 -  ( butan - 2 - yl )  - 4 , 6 - dinitrophenol .
an  organochlorine compound that is 2 - chloroacetamide substituted by a 2 , 4 - dimethylthiophen - 3 - yl and a 1 - methoxypropan - 2 - yl group at the nitrogen atom .
a 2 - chloro - n -  ( 2 , 4 - dimethylthiophen - 3 - yl )  - n -  [  ( 2r )  - 1 - methoxypropan - 2 - yl ] acetamide that has r configuration .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 2 - chloro - n -  ( 2 , 4 - dimethylthiophen - 3 - yl )  - n -  [  ( 2s )  - 1 - methoxypropan - 2 - yl ] acetamide .
an  organochlorine compound that is 2 - chloroacetamide substituted by a  ( 2 - ethyl - 6 - methylphenyl )  - n -  ( 1 - methoxypropan - 2 - yl )  group at the nitrogen atom .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 2 - chloro - n -  ( 2 - ethyl - 6 - methylphenyl )  - n -  ( 1 - methoxypropan - 2 - yl ) acetamide .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 2 - chloro - n -  ( 2 - ethyl - 6 - methylphenyl )  - n -  ( 1 - methoxypropan - 2 - yl ) acetamide .
a pyrimidone that is pyrimidine - 2 , 4 ( 1h , 3h )  - dione substituted by a bromo group at position 5 ,  a butan - 2 - yl group at position 3 and a methyl group at position 6 .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 5 - bromo - 3 -  ( butan - 2 - yl )  - 6 - methylpyrimidine - 2 , 4 ( 1h , 3h )  - dione .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 5 - bromo - 3 -  ( butan - 2 - yl )  - 6 - methylpyrimidine - 2 , 4 ( 1h , 3h )  - dione .
a member of the class of pyrimidines that is pyrimidin - 5 - ylmethanol in which one of the hydrogens attached to the carbon bearing the hydroxy group is replaced by a 2 - chlorophenyl group while the other is replaced by a 4 - chlorophenyl group .
a  ( 2 - chlorophenyl )  ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) pyrimidin - 5 - ylmethanol that has r configuration .
a  ( 2 - chlorophenyl )  ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) pyrimidin - 5 - ylmethanol that has s configuration .
a ketone that is butan - 2 - one substituted by a 4 - chlorophenoxy and a 1h - imidazol - 1 - yl group at position 1 and 2 methyl groups at position 3 .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenoxy )  - 1 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 1 - yl )  - 3 , 3 - dimethylbutan - 2 - one .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenoxy )  - 1 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 1 - yl )  - 3 , 3 - dimethylbutan - 2 - one .
a nitrile that is hexanenitrile substituted at the 2 - position by p - chlorophenyl and  ( 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) methyl groups .
a 2 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) hexanenitrile that has r configuration .
a 2 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) hexanenitrile that has s configuration .
a member of the class of oxazolidinones that is 5 - ethenyl - 5 - methyl - 2 , 4 - oxazolidinedione in which the imide hydrogen is replaced by a 3 , 5 - dichlorophenyl group .
a 3 -  ( 3 , 5 - dichlorophenyl )  - 5 - ethenyl - 5 - methyl - 2 , 4 - oxazolidinedione that is the  ( r )  - enantiomer of vinclozolin .
a sterol biosynthesis inhibitor that acts by inhibiting the c14 demethylation step within fungal steroid biosynthesis .
a 3 -  ( 3 , 5 - dichlorophenyl )  - 5 - ethenyl - 5 - methyl - 2 , 4 - oxazolidinedione that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of vinclozolin .
any compound that inhibits the biosynthesis of any phospholipid .
a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid that is nicotinic acid which is substituted substituted at position 5 by a methoxymethyl group and at position 2 by a 4 , 5 - dihydro - 1h - imidazol - 2 - yl group ,  that in turn is substituted by isopropyl ,  methyl ,  and oxo groups at positions 4 ,  4 ,  and 5 ,  respectively .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 2 -  ( 4 - isopropyl - 4 - methyl - 5 - oxo - 4 , 5 - dihydro - 1h - imidazol - 2 - yl )  - 5 -  ( methoxymethyl ) nicotinic acid .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 5 -  ( methoxymethyl )  - 2 -  [ 4 - methyl - 5 - oxo - 4 -  ( propan - 2 - yl )  - 4 , 5 - dihydro - 1h - imidazol - 2 - yl ] pyridine - 3 - carboxylic acid .
a tertiary alcohol that is butan - 2 - ol substituted by a 4 - chlorophenyl group at position 2 ,  a cyclopropyl group at position 3 and a 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl group at position 1 .
the  ( 2r , 3s )  - stereoisomer of 2 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 3 - cyclopropyl - 1 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - ol .
the  ( 2s , 3s )  - stereoisomer of 2 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 3 - cyclopropyl - 1 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - ol .
the  ( 2s , 3r )  - stereoisomer of 2 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 3 - cyclopropyl - 1 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - ol .
the  ( 2r , 3r )  - stereoisomer of 2 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 3 - cyclopropyl - 1 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - ol .
an  epoxide that is oxirane substituted by a 2 - chlorophenyl ,  4 - fluorophenyl and a 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl groups .
the  ( 2s , 3r )  - stereoisomer of 1 - { [ 3 -  ( 2 - chlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) oxiran - 2 - yl ] methyl} - 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole .
the  ( 2r , 3s )  - stereoisomer of 1 - { [ 3 -  ( 2 - chlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) oxiran - 2 - yl ] methyl} - 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole .
a methanesulfonate ester that is methanesulfonic acid in which the hydrogen of the hydroxy group has been replaced by a 2 - ethoxy - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 - benzofuran - 5 - yl group .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of  2 - ethoxy - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 - benzofuran - 5 - yl methanesulfonate .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of  2 - ethoxy - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 2 , 3 - dihydro - 1 - benzofuran - 5 - yl methanesulfonate .
a monocarboxylic acid amide that is propanamide substituted by two ethyl groups at the nitrogen atom and a naphthalen - 1 - yloxy group at position 2 .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of n , n - diethyl - 2 -  ( naphthalen - 1 - yloxy ) propanamide .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of n , n - diethyl - 2 -  ( naphthalen - 1 - yloxy ) propanamide .
a tertiary alcohol that is pentan - 3 - ol substituted by a 4 - chlorophenyl ,  methyl ,  methyl ,  and a 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl at positions 1 ,  4 ,  4 and 3 respectively .
a glucocorticoid that is prednisone in which the oxo group at position 11 has been reduced to the corresponding beta - hydroxy group .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 4 , 4 - dimethyl - 3 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) pentan - 3 - ol .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 4 , 4 - dimethyl - 3 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) pentan - 3 - ol .
a diamino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is n -  ( butan - 2 - yl )  - n' - ethyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine substituted by a methoxy group at position 6 .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of n -  ( butan - 2 - yl )  - n' - ethyl - 6 - methoxy - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of n -  ( butan - 2 - yl )  - n' - ethyl - 6 - methoxy - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine .
a diamino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is n -  ( butan - 2 - yl )  - n' - ethyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine substituted by a chloro group at position 6 .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of n -  ( butan - 2 - yl )  - 6 - chloro - n' - ethyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of n -  ( butan - 2 - yl )  - 6 - chloro - n' - ethyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine - 2 , 4 - diamine .
any derivative of a proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or a side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any derivative of a non - proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group or carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any of the 23 alpha - amino acids that are precursors to proteins ,  and are incorporated into proteins during translation .
any organofluorine compound that is a oligomer or telomer synthesised by telomerization  ( a chain transfer reaction to produce an oligomer of a limited size )  .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a morphinan skeleton .
any amino - acid that is not naturally encoded in the genetic code of any organism .
any derivative of an amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any l - alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from the formal reaction of l - cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - cysteine by a heteroatom .
a member of the class of imidazoles in which the hydrogen at position 1 is replaced by a 2 -  ( allyloxy )  - 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl group .
a 1 -  [ 2 -  ( allyloxy )  - 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl ] imidazole that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of enilconazole
a 1 -  [ 2 -  ( allyloxy )  - 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl ] imidazole that is the  ( r )  - enantiomer of enilconazole .
any  alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - alanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - alanine by a heteroatom .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of d - alanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of d - alanine by a heteroatom .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 2 - saturated fatty acid .
steroid lactones containing sugar residues that act on the contractile force of the cardiac muscles .
a methyl - branched fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 3 - methyl fatty acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a methyl - branched fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 2 - methyl fatty acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - glutamic acid by a heteroatom .
a dithiocarbamic acid resulting from the formal addition of a molecule of carbon disulfide to each amino group of ethylenediamine .
a member of the class of triazoles that is 1 - hydroxy - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 -  ( 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - one in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is replaced by a 4 - chlorophenyl group .
a 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenoxy )  - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 -  ( 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - one that is the  ( r )  - enantiomer of triadimefon .
a 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenoxy )  - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 -  ( 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - one that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of triadimefon .
any phospho sugar that is the phosphate derivative of pentose .
a saturated fatty aldehyde composed from five carbons in a straight chain .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human urine samples .
a pyrimidone that is dihydropyrimidine - 4 , 6 ( 1h , 5h )  - dione substituted by an ethyl and a phenyl group at position 5 .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of d - tyrosine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of d - tyrosine by a heteroatom .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - valine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - valine by a heteroatom .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of d - phenylalanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of d - phenylalanine by a heteroatom .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - phenylalanine  at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - phenylalanine  by a heteroatom .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - proline at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - proline  by a heteroatom .
a quinolinemonocarboxylic acid that is quinoline - 8 - carboxylic acid carrying additional methyl and chloro substituents at positions 3 and 7 respectively .
a member of the class of  acetamides that is  acetamide in which the hydrogens attached to the n atom have been replaced by two methyl groups respectively .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of nicotinamidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .19 )  .
a dithioketal that is propane - 2 , 2 - dithiol in which the hydrogens attached to both sulfur atoms are replaced by 3 , 5 - di - tert - butyl - 4 - hydroxyphenyl groups .
a amino acid ester that is methyl phenylacetate in which one of the hydrogens alpha to the carbonyl group is replaced by a piperidin - 2 - yl group .
an organic anion in which the charge resides on a sulfur atom .
any organic sulfur anion resulting from the removal of a proton from any n - substituted dithiocarbamic acid .
a member of the class of dithiocarbamate anions resulting from the removal of the proton from the dithiocarbamic acid moiety of dimethyldithiocarbamic acid .
a member of the class of ureas that is 1h - imidazole - 1 - carboxamide substituted by a propyl and a 2 -  ( 2 , 4 , 6 - trichlorophenoxy ) ethyl group at the amino nitrogen atom .
a phenolate anion obtained from 2 , 4 - dinitrophenol .
a one - carbon compound that is methane in which the hydrogens have been replaced by two fluorines ,  a bromine ,  and a chlorine .
any member of the class of  indoles carrying at least one hydroxy group .
an alkanethiol that is propane substituted by a thiol group at position 1 .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in algae including unicellular organisms like chlorella and diatoms to multicellular organisms like giant kelps and brown algae .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of amiloride .
any n - nitro compound obtained by formal replacement of one or more of the hydrogens of a nitroguanidine by an organyl group .
any nitroguanidine derivative resulting from the replacement of one or more hydrogens of 2 - nitroguanidine by an organyl group .
the cyclic ketal obtained by formal condensation of 1 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) ethanone with pentane - 1 , 2 - diol .
a lysophosphatidate 18:1 in which the acyl group is specified as oleoyl  ( attached at either sn - 1 or sn - 2 position )  .
a propanolamine that is propan - 2 - ol substituted by a propan - 2 - ylamino group at position 1 and a naphthalen - 1 - yloxy group at position 3 .
a carbocyclic fatty acid composed of heptanoic acid having a  ( 1s , 2s )  - 2 - octylcyclopentyl substituent at position 7 .
any cosmetic used to lighten the colour of skin by reducing the concentration of melanin .
an ec 1 .10 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on diphenols and related substances as donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .10 .3 .
any ec 1 .10 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on diphenols and related substances as donors with oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of catechol oxidase  ( ec 1 .10 .3 .1 )  .
any ec 1 .10 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on diphenols and related substances as donors with oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of laccase  ( ec 1 .10 .3 .2 )  .
any ec 1 .13 .11 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on single donors and incorporating 2 o atoms )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of quercetin 2 , 3 - dioxygenase  ( ec 1 .13 .1 .24 )  .
any ec 1 .4 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh2 group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of d - amino - acid oxidase  ( ec 1 .4 .3 .3 )  .
a 4 - hydroxybenzoate ester in which the esterifying alcohol is an alkanol  ( in diagram ,  r = alkyl )  .
an amino acid ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of a beta - amino acid with the hydroxy group of an alcohol or phenol .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human blood serum samples .
a secondary aliphatic amine where both n - substituents are ethyl .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of r -  and s - flumequine .
a member of the class of pyridoquinolines that is 1 - oxo - 6 , 7 - dihydro - 1h , 5h - pyrido [ 3 , 2 , 1 - ij ] quinoline carrying additional carboxy ,  methyl and fluoro substituents at positions 2 ,  5 and 9 respectively .
a 9 - fluoro - 5 - methyl - 1 - oxo - 6 , 7 - dihydro - 1h , 5h - pyrido [ 3 , 2 , 1 - ij ] quinoline - 2 - carboxylic acid that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of flumequine .
a 9 - fluoro - 5 - methyl - 1 - oxo - 6 , 7 - dihydro - 1h , 5h - pyrido [ 3 , 2 , 1 - ij ] quinoline - 2 - carboxylic acid that is the  ( r )  - enantiomer of flumequine .
any substance that inhibits the action of glycine transporters .
a bismuth atom having a net electric charge .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of a haloacetic acid .
any polychlorobiphenyl with molecular formula c12h3cl7 .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in rat  ( rattus norvegicus )  .
a phenolate anion resulting from deprotonation of the phenolic hydroxy group of picric acid .
any aliphatic sulfide in which at least one of the organyl groups attached to the sulfur is a methyl group .
a compound that has a structure that is related to miconazole ,  contains an azole  ( imidazole or triazole )  moiety ,  and has significant systemic antifungal properties .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic whose structure contains a quinolone or quinolone - related skeleton .
any antifungal agent used to prevent or treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
any substance used in acriculture ,  horticulture ,  forestry ,  etc .
an ec 5 .3 .*  ( intramolecular oxidoreductase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any such enzyme that transposes c=c bonds  ( ec 5 .3 .3 .
an ec 5 .3 .3 .*  ( intramolecular oxidase transposing c=c bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a cholestenol delta - isomerase  ( ec 5 .3 .3 .5 )  .
organonitrogen compounds containing an aliphatic nitrogen that have significant antifungal properties .
a compound that has significant antifungal properties whose structure contains an imidazole moiety .
a mononitrophenol that is 2 - nitrophenol and its derivatives resulting from substitution of one or more of the hydrogens attached to the benzene ring by a non - nitro group .
a member of the class of triazole that has significant antifungal properties .
a family of glycosaminoglycan formed by alternating residues of d - glucosamine and either muramic acid {2 - amino - 3 - o -  [  ( s )  - 1 - carboxyethyl ]  - 2 - deoxy - d - glucose} or l - talosaminuronic acid  ( 2 - amino - 2 - deoxy - l - taluronic acid )  ,  which are usually n - acetylated or n - glycoloylated .
heteroorganic entities that are microbial metabolites  ( or compounds derived from them )  which have significant antifungal properties .
any antibiotic antifungal agents whose structure is based on the antifungal agents originally isolated from the fungus strobilurus tenacellus .
any strobilurin antifungal agent that contains a methoxyacrylate group .
any strobilurin antifungal agent that contains a methoxycarbanilate group .
a member of the class of aminopyrimidines that is n - phenylpyrimidin - 2 - amine carrying two additional methyl substituents at positions 4 and 6 .
an aromatic ether consisting of 4 - trifluoromethylphenol in which the hydrogen of the phenolic hydroxy group is replaced by a 3 -  ( methylamino )  - 1 - phenylpropyl group .
an n - methyl - 3 - phenyl - 3 -  [ 4 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenoxy ] propan - 1 - amine that has r configuration .
an n - methyl - 3 - phenyl - 3 -  [ 4 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenoxy ] propan - 1 - amine that has s configuration .
an organic cation resulting from the protonation of the amino group of  ( r )  - fluoxetine .
an organic cation resulting from the protonation of the amino group of  ( s )  - fluoxetine .
a compound that has significant antifungal properties whose structure contains an amide moiety .
an amide fungicide whose structure contains an acylamino acid skeleton .
any amide fungicide whose structure contains an anilide group .
an amide fungicide whose structure contains a valine amide moiety .
an organic aromatic compound that has been used as a fungicide .
compounds that contain a benzimidazole moiety as a key feature of their structure and which have been used as fungicides .
any organic aromatic compound containing two phenyl  ( or substituted phenyl )  groups attached to a single carbon or heteroatom and which has been used as a fungicide .
compounds that contain a carbamate ester moiety as a key feature of their structure and which have been used as fungicides .
any carbamate fungicide that contains a benzimidazolyl group attached to the nitrogen of the carbamate moiety .
any carbamate fungicide that has a phenyl or substituted - phenyl group attached to the nitrogen of the carbamate group .
any conazole antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
any imidazole antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
any imidazole antifungal agent that has been used for the treatment of fungal infections in humans or animals .
any conazole antifungal agent that has been used for the treatment of fungal infections in animals or humans .
an organic sodium salt having 4 - hydroxy - 3 -  [  ( 2 - methoxyphenyl ) diazenyl ] naphthalene - 1 - sulfonate as the counterion .
a naphthalenesulfonic acid that is naphthalene - 1 - sulfonic acid carrying additional hydroxy and  ( 2 - methoxyphenyl ) diazenyl substituents at positions 4 and 3 respectively .
an organosulfonate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the sulfo group of 4 - hydroxy - 3 -  [  ( 2 - methoxyphenyl ) diazenyl ] naphthalene - 1 - sulfonic acid .
any triazole antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
any triazole antifungal agent that has been used for the treatment of fungal infections in humans or animals .
any antibiotic antifungal agent used to treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
any antibiotic antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
a member of the class of morpholines that has significant antifungal properties .
any morpholine antifungal agent used as a fungicide .
any dicarboximide antifungal agent used as a fungicide .
a dicarboximide fungicide in which the nitrogen of the dicarboximide group is substituted by a dichlorophenyl group .
a dicarboximide fungicide whose structure contains a phthalimide derivative .
a compound that has significant antifungal properties whose structure contains a dicarboximide moiety .
a member of the class of pyrimidines that has significant antifungal properties .
any pyrimidine antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
any pyrimidine fungicide in which the pyrimidine ring is substituted by the nitrogen of an aniline moiety .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic containing a quinolone  ( or quinolone - like )  moiety and which have a fluorine atom attached to the central ring system .
a class of sulfonamides whose members generally have bacteriostatic antibiotic properties .
an acetate ester of pentanol .
any organooxygen compound whose structure is related to compactin  ( mevastatin )  and which may be used as an anticholesteremic drug due its ec 1 .1 .1 .34 / ec 1 .1 .1 .88  ( hydroxymethylglutaryl - coa reductase )  inhibitory properties .
any statin that occurs in nature .
a statin that is derived from a naturally occurring statin by partial chemical synthesis .
a statin which does not occur naturally and which is not obtained by chemical transformation of a naturally occurring statin .
a fatty acid ester obtained by condensation of the carboxy group of tetradecanoic acid  ( also known as myristic acid )  with a hydroxy group of an alcohol or phenol .
a member of the class of coumarins that is 4 - hydroxycoumarin which is substituted at position 3 by a 1 - phenyl - 3 - oxo - 1 - butyl group .
a pentanone that is pentane carrying an oxo group at position 3 .
a member of the class of  furans used to treat  peptic ulcer disease  ( pud )  and gastroesophageal reflux disease .
any toxin produced by cyanobacteria  ( blue - green algae )  .
any organic amino compound that contains two or more amino groups .
an organic hydrogensulfate salt having 4 - { [ 4 -  ( diethylamino ) phenyl ]  ( phenyl ) methylidene} - n , n - diethylcyclohexa - 2 , 5 - dien - 1 - iminium as the counterion .
an organic salt containing hydrogensulfate as the anionic component .
an iminium ion that is the cationic component of the histological dye 'brilliant green' .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any drug which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
an organic sodium salt resulting from the formal condensation of sirius red 4b  ( acid form )  with two equivalents of sodium hydroxide .
a naphthalenesulfonic acid that is 7 - amino - 4 - hydroxy - 3 -  ( {4 -  [  ( 4 - sulfophenyl ) diazenyl ] phenyl}diazenyl ) naphthalene - 2 - sulfonic acid in which one of the amino hydrogens is replaced by a benzoyl group .
an organosulfonate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the sulfonic acid groups of sirius red 4b  ( acid form )  .
an osmium coordination entity consisting of four oxygen atoms bound to a central osmium atom via covalent double bonds .
any compound that inhibits the process of autophagy  ( the self - digestion of one or more components of a cell through the action of enzymes originating within the same cell )  .
a mononitrophenol that is 4 - nitrophenol and its derivatives resulting from substitution of one or more of the hydrogens attached to the benzene ring by a non - nitro group .
a  n - sulfonylurea that is n - carbamoyl - 3 -  ( ethylsulfonyl ) pyridine - 2 - sulfonamide substituted by a 4 , 6 - dimethoxypyrimidin - 2 - yl group at the amino nitrogen atom .
a member of the class of pyridopyrimidines that is 2 - methyl - 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 - tetrahydropyrido [ 1 , 2 - a ] pyrimidin - 4 - one carrying an additional 2 -  [ 4 -  ( 6 - fluoro - 1 , 2 - benzoxazol - 3 - yl ) piperidin - 1 - yl ] ethyl group at position 2 .
a dialkyl ketone that is heptane in which the two methylene protons at position 4 have been replaced by an oxo group .
an organic sodium salt that is the sodium salt of dodecyl hydrogen sulfate .
a member of the class of benzodioxoles that is 1 , 3 - benzodioxole which is substituted by an allyl group at position 5 .
an ec 6 .4 .1 .*  ( carboxylase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of pyruvate carboxylase  ( ec 6 .4 .1 .1 )  .
an aromatic ketone that is phloroglucinol in which two of the hydrogens attached to the benzene ring have been replaced by chlorines while the third has been replaced by a hexanoyl group .
a phenolate anion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the hydroxy groups of 1 -  ( 3 , 5 - dichloro - 2 , 6 - dihydroxy - 4 - methoxyphenyl ) hexan - 1 - one  ( dif - 1 )  .
a phenolate anion resulting from removal of the proton from the phenolic hydroxy group of  ( 3 , 5 - dichloro - 2 , 4 , 6 - trihydroxyphenyl ) hexan - 1 - one that is para to the hexanoyl group .
a fluoroalkanoic acid that is dodecanoic acid in which all of the hydrogens attached to carbon atoms are replaced by fluorines .
a guanidinium ion obtained by monoprotonation of metformin .
an indole alkaloid cation obtained by protonation of the tertiary amino group of strychnine .
a nuclear receptor modulator that affects the retinoic acid receptor
any receptor modulator acting on nuclear receptors
a drug that acts as an antagonist ,  agonist ,  reverse agonist ,  or in some other fashion when interacting with cellular receptors .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralize the deleterious effects of cyanide .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralise the deleterious effects of organophosphates or acetylcholinesterase inhibitors  ( nerve agents )  .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralise the deleterious effects of opioids .
any peptide zwitterion comprising two amino acid residues .
a mixed diacylamine resulting from the formal condensation of the nitrogen of a carboxamide with a sulphonic acid .
a carboxylic acic anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any aromatic carboxylic acid .
any inhibitor of erythropoietin ,  a glycoprotein hormone that controls erythropoiesis  ( red blood cell production )  .
an antagonist at purinergic p2 receptors
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates elastin - laminin receptors .
a member of the class of hexahydronaphthalenes that is lovastatin in which the 2 - methylbutyrate ester moiety has been replaced by a 2 , 2 - dimethylbutyrate ester group .
a macrolide lactam isolated from streptomyces hygroscopicus consisting of a 29 - membered ring containing 4 trans double bonds ,  three of which are conjugated .
a dinitrotoluene in which the methyl group is ortho to one of the nitro groups and para to the other .
a  steroid lactone that is 17alpha - pregn - 4 - ene - 21 , 17 - carbolactone substituted by an oxo group at position 3 and an alpha - acetylsulfanyl group at position 7 .
the spiroketal resulting from the formal condensation of 4 - tert - butylcyclohexanone with 3 -  [ ethyl ( propyl ) amino ] propane - 1 , 2 - diol .
an n - nitrosourea that is an antibiotic produced by streptomyces achromogenes .
a sulfonamide consisting of pyrimidine with a 4 - aminobenzenesulfonamido group at the 2 - position .
the simplest of the sulfamic acids consisting of a single sulfur atom covalently bound by single bonds to hydroxy and amino groups and by double bonds to two oxygen atoms .
an isoxazole  ( 1 , 2 - oxazole )  compound having a methyl substituent at the 5 - position and a 4 - aminobenzenesulfonamido group at the 3 - position .
a 1 , 3 - thiazole compound having a 4 - aminobenzenesulfonamido group at the 2 - position .
a 5 -  ( 2 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 - ethoxyphenoxy ) ethyl ] amino}propyl )  - 2 - methoxybenzenesulfonamide that has  ( r )  - configuration .
a nitrile that is benzonitrile which is substituted by chlorines at positions 2 and 6 .
a member of the class of  benzimidazoles  used widely in the treatment of hypertension .
an organic disulfide that results from the formal oxidative dimerisation of n , n - dimethyldithiocarbamic acid .
an organic heterotricyclic compound that is a hexa - oxygenated 6 , 7 - guaianolide isolated fron the roots of thapsia garganica l . ,  apiaceae .
a dinitrotoluene carrying nitro substituents at positions 2 and 6 .
a thienopyridine that is 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 - tetrahydrothieno [ 3 , 2 - c ] pyridine in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by an o - chlorobenzyl group .
a racemate consisting of equal amounts of  ( r , r )  -  and  ( s , s )  - tramadol .
a racemate comprising equal amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - triadimefon .
the methyl ester of tribenuron .
a monocarboxylic acid that is  ( pyridin - 2 - yloxy ) acetic acid substituted by chloro groups at positions 3 ,  5 and 6 .
a tetracyclic spiroepoxide which acts as an antifungal and protein synthesis inhibitor .
a member of the class of n - alkylpiperazines in which the two amino groups of piperazine are replaced by 1 - formamido - 2 , 2 , 2 - trichloroethyl groups .
a complex heterocyclic sulfonium compound with an imidazolium core ,  used to treat hypertension .
the  ( s )  - camphorsulfonate salt of trimethaphan .
a dibenzoazepine that is 10 , 11 - dihydro - 5h - dibenzo [ b , f ] azepine substituted by a 3 -  ( dimethylamino )  - 2 - methylpropyl group at the nitrogen atom .
a monocarboxylic acid amide consisting of l - valine in which the amino hydrogens have been replaced by a pentanoyl and a   [ 2' -  ( 1h - tetrazol - 5 - yl ) biphenyl ]  - 4 - yl ] methyl group .
a family of cyclic nonapeptide hormones found in most mammals .
a tertiary amino compound that is n , n - dimethylethanamine substituted at position 1 by a 1 - hydroxycyclohexyl and 4 - methoxyphenyl group .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of dexverapamil and  ( s )  - verapamil .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - vinclozolin .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell found in an organism or derived from an organism exhibiting a phenotype that deviates from the expected phenotype of any native cell type of that organism .
a nucleus size quality which is relatively high compared to the amount of cytoplasm present in the same cell .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to electromagnetic radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to ultraviolet radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to visible spectrum radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to environmental material .
an exposure to organic molecular entity .
an exposure to organic cyclic compound .
an exposure to methotrexate .
an exposure to corticosterone .
an exposure to lipid .
an exposure to carbon monoxide .
an exposure to chemical entity .
an exposure to steroid hormone .
an exposure to glucocorticoid .
an exposure to oxygen molecular entity .
an exposure to formaldehyde .
an exposure to transition element molecular entity .
an exposure to biological role .
an exposure to application .
an exposure to chemical role .
an exposure to alkylating agent .
an exposure to drug .
an exposure to herbicide .
an exposure to hormone .
an exposure to mitochondrial respiratory - chain inhibitor .
an exposure to mutagen .
an exposure to mycotoxin .
an exposure to neurotransmitter .
an exposure to pesticide .
an exposure to toxin .
an exposure to molecular messenger .
an exposure to antimicrobial agent .
an exposure to inhibitor .
an exposure to vasodilator agent .
an exposure to ec 1 .9 .3 .1  ( cytochrome c oxidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to bronsted acid .
an exposure to disinfectant .
an exposure to agonist .
an exposure to p450 inhibitor .
an exposure to probe .
an exposure to genotoxin .
an exposure to carcinogenic agent .
an exposure to allergen .
an exposure to neurotoxin .
an exposure to ligand .
an exposure to biomarker .
an exposure to signalling molecule .
an exposure to ec 3 .5 .1 .4  ( amidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to environmental contaminant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to temperature of environmental material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to temperature of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of temperature of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased temperature .
an exposure to aflatoxin .
an exposure to organochlorine compound .
an exposure to cadmium molecular entity .
an exposure to mercury molecular entity .
an exposure to chloroacetic acid .
an exposure to steroid .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to quality .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to qualitative .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to process quality .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to physical object quality .
an exposure to glucose mixed in obsolete food product .
an exposure to fructose mixed in obsolete food product .
an exposure to sucrose mixed in obsolete food product .
an exposure to protein mixed in obsolete food product .
an exposure to monosaccharide mixed in obsolete food product .
an exposure to methane mixed in obsolete food product .
an exposure to triglyceride mixed in obsolete food product .
an exposure to low - density lipoprotein mixed in obsolete food product .
an exposure to high - density lipoprotein mixed in obsolete food product .
an exposure to paraquat mixed in soil .
an exposure event involving nicotine consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving ethanol consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving nicotine smoking behavior
an exposure event involving nicotine cigarette smoking behavior
an exposure event involving nicotine cigar smoking behavior
an exposure event involving cannabis sativa consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving morphinane alkaloid consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving cocaine consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving methamphetamine consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving heroin consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure to inhaled corticosteroid agent therapy via inhalation .
an exposure to glycemic agent therapy via ingestion .
an exposure to anticoagulant agent therapy via ingestion .
an exposure to pharmacotherapy via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159 .
an exposure event involving nicotine consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving ethanol consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving nicotine smoking behavior via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving nicotine cigarette smoking behavior via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving nicotine cigar smoking behavior via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving morphinane alkaloid consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving cocaine consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving methamphetamine consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving heroin consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of salt in liquid water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of salt in liquid water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of salt in soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of salt in soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of methane in air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of methane in air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of glucose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of fructose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of sucrose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of protein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of monosaccharide in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of methane in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of triglyceride in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of low - density lipoprotein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of high - density lipoprotein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of glucose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of fructose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of sucrose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of protein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of monosaccharide in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of methane in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of triglyceride in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of low - density lipoprotein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of high - density lipoprotein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to manufactured product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510001 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510004 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510002 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510005 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510010 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510011 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510012 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510013 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510014 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510017 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510019 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510020 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510021 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510022 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510040 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510041 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510024 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510028 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510026 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510027 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510030 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510034 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510035 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510025 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to mudslide happening in injection of the receptor .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to air pollution happening in http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159 of the receptor .
an exposure to steroid via ingestion .
an exposure to aflatoxin via ingestion .
an exposure to antimony molecular entity via ingestion .
an exposure to arsenic molecular entity via ingestion .
an exposure to cadmium molecular entity via ingestion .
an exposure to mercury molecular entity via ingestion .
an exposure to bisphenol a via ingestion .
an exposure to monosodium glutamate via ingestion .
an exposure to disodium 5' - guanylate via ingestion .
an exposure to food additive via ingestion .
an exposure to sweetening agent via ingestion .
an exposure to food preservative via ingestion .
an exposure to food colouring via ingestion .
an exposure to flavouring agent via ingestion .
an exposure to food emulsifier via ingestion .
an exposure to cadmium cation via ingestion .
an exposure to mercury cation via ingestion .
an exposure to heroin via injection .
an exposure to heroin via inhalation .
an exposure to methamphetamine via injection .
an exposure to methamphetamine via inhalation .
an exposure to polycyclic hydrocarbon via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of environmental condition .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of coal power plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of fossil fuel power plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of mine .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of wooden building floor .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of concrete building floor .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of radiation shielding disposition .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of high temperature environment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of gas power station .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of power plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of geothermal power plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of nuclear power plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of solar power station .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of factory .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of waste treatment plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of wastewater treatment plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of agricultural wastewater treatment plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of industrial wastewate treatment plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of extreme high temperature environment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of high pressure environment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of weather .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of landspout .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of storm surge .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of icestorm .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of tornado .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of waterspout .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of flash flood .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of rain .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of freezing rainfall .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of thunderstorm .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of flood .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of tropical storm .
an exposure to medical action .
an exposure to pulmonary antihypertensive agent therapy .
an exposure to dyslipidemic agent therapy .
an exposure to blood glucose regulator therapy .
an exposure to therapeutic insulin treatment .
an exposure to sex hormone modifying agent therapy .
an exposure to estrogen modifying agent therapy .
an exposure to platelet aggregation inhibitor agent therapy .
an exposure to antiarrythmic agent therapy .
an exposure to antipsychotic agent therapy .
an exposure to obsolete calcium channel blocker agent therapy .
an exposure to nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agent therapy .
an exposure to h2 - receptor antagonist agent therapy .
an exposure to diuretic agent therapy .
an exposure to anticholinergic bronchodilator agent therapy .
an exposure to inhaled corticosteroid agent therapy .
an exposure to monoamine oxidase inhibitor agent therapy .
an exposure to antidepressant agent therapy .
an exposure to phosphodiesterase inhibitor bronchodilator agent therapy .
an exposure to proton pump inhibitor agent therapy .
an exposure to progestin modifying agent therapy .
an exposure to antiparkinson agent therapy .
an exposure to vasodilator agent therapy .
an exposure to sympathomimetic bronchodilator agent therapy .
an exposure to tricyclic antidepressant agent therapy .
an exposure to thyroid - modifying hormonal agent therapy .
an exposure to anticoagulant agent therapy .
an exposure to raas inhibitor therapy .
an exposure to alpha - adrenergic antagonist agent therapy .
an exposure to cholinesterase inhibitor therapy .
an exposure to tranquilizing agent therapy .
an exposure to beta - adrenergic antagonist agent therapy .
an exposure to antileukotriene agent therapy .
an exposure to glycemic agent therapy .
an exposure to antigout agent therapy .
an exposure to diagnostic imaging .
an exposure to ultrasound tomography .
an exposure to positron emission tomography .
an exposure to radiography .
an exposure to mammography .
an exposure to xeroradiography .
an exposure to myelography .
an exposure to bronchography .
an exposure to cystography .
an exposure to vaginography .
an exposure to abdominal radiography .
an exposure to chest radiography .
an exposure to cholangiography .
an exposure to total body radiography .
an exposure to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / ncit_c20080 .
an exposure to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / ncit_c17054 .
an exposure to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / ncit_c27851 .
an exposure to surgical procedure .
an exposure to kidney transplantation .
an exposure to transplantation surgical procedure .
an exposure to pharmacotherapy .
a history of exposure to organism .
a history of exposure to viruses .
a history of exposure to enterovirus .
a history of exposure to helicobacter pylori .
a history of exposure to papillomaviridae .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to deviation ( from_normal ) deviation  ( from_normal )  of quality .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased temperature .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of salt .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of salt .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of methane .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of methane .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of glucose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of fructose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of sucrose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of protein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of monosaccharide .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of triglyceride .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of low - density lipoprotein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of high - density lipoprotein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of glucose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of fructose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of sucrose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of protein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of monosaccharide .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of triglyceride .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of low - density lipoprotein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of high - density lipoprotein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased pressure .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased pressure .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of temperature of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to frozen of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of temperature of soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of temperature of soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of temperature of water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of temperature of water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to geographic feature .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to sidewalk .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to public swimming pool .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to mine .
an exposure event involving behavior
an exposure event involving physical aggression behavior
an exposure event involving locomotor play
an exposure event involving walking behavior
an exposure event involving sedentary lifestyle
an exposure event involving coping skills
an exposure event involving sex behavior
an exposure event involving substance abuse
an exposure event involving drug abuse
an exposure event involving alcohol abuse
an exposure event involving social networking
an exposure event involving risk reduction
an exposure event involving flame - broiling
an exposure event involving smoking behavior
an exposure event involving lifestyle
an exposure event involving personal behavior
an exposure event involving dietary practices
an exposure event involving red meat consumption
an exposure event involving high vegetable diet
an exposure event involving feeding regimen
an exposure event involving food consumption
an exposure event involving water consumption
an exposure event involving cooking practices
an exposure event involving clinical or research activity
an exposure event involving unemployment
an exposure event involving poverty
an exposure event involving social circumstances
an exposure event involving socioeconomic factors
an exposure event involving tobacco smoking
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to fume .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to smog .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to coal .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to coal dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to coal mine waste material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to self - heating coal mine waste material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to clay .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to clay dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to brick .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to brick material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to asphalt .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to refined asphalt .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to asphalt concrete .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to glass .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to fibrous glass dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to rock .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to ore .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to sand .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to metallic dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to fibrous dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to mineral dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to grain dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to asbestos dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to cement dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to slate dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to talc dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to kaolin dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to silica dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to barium dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to aluminium dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to dust from plant parts .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to wood .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to treated wood .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to charcoal .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to concrete .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to plaster .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to cement plaster .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to lime plaster .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to particle radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to stellar radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to ionizing radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to particle beam radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to x - ray radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to liquefied natural gas .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to natural gas .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to liquefied petroleum gas .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to gaseous environmental material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to smoke .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to haze .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to microplastic particle .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to secondary microplastic particle .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to liquid water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to oil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to particulate matter .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to organic material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to snow .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to atmospheric carbon dioxide .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to volcanic ash .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to mineral material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to mine tailing .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to permafrost .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to waste water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to fecal material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to sewage .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to raw primary sludge .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to secondary sludge .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to biosolids .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to oil sludge .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to chemically enriched sediment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to petroleum enriched sediment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to contaminated soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to creosote contaminated soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to arsenic - rich mud .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to borax leachate .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to chromate contaminated soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to xylene contaminated soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to agricultural soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to waste material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to chicken breeding waste material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to industrial waste material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to fluvisol .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to stagnosol .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to technosol .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to animal waste material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to hay .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to adobe .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to bagasse .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to organic waste material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to oil contaminated soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to fuel oil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to petroleum .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to silage .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to animal manure .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to fresh animal manure .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to bodily fluid material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to blood material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to amniotic fluid material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to excreta material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to bile material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to aerosol .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to waterborne particulate matter .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to respirable suspended particulate matter .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to fine respirable suspended particulate matter .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to ultrafine respirable suspended particulate matter .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to contaminated water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to pulp - bleaching waste water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to sea water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to river water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to distilled water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to drinking water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to tap water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to groundwater .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to pond water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to welding fume .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to glue .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510018 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510023 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510016 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510015 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510000 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510006 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510007 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510008 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510009 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510029 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510031 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510032 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510033 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510036 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510037 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510038 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510039 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to environmental system process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to methane gas emission process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to atmospheric aerosolisation of dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to aerosolisation of dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to lumber production process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to greenhouse effect .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to combustion process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to plastic pollution .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to climate change .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to acidification of an aquatic environment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to volcanic eruption .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to earthquake .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to tsunami .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to soil degradation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to material extraction process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to desertification .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to flooding .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to atmospheric process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to deforestation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to environmental pollution .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to ocean acidification .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to tectonic earthquake .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to landslide process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to mudslide .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to coastal flooding .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to riverine flooding .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to flash flooding .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to meteotsunami .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to storm surge process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to areal flooding .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to urban flooding .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to carbon dioxide emission process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to accumulation of toxins from algal bloom process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to degradation of toxins from algal bloom process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to anthropogenic modulatory intervention process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to air pollution .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to soil pollution .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to water pollution .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to urban pollution .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to drought .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to acoustic radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to gamma - ray radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to infrared radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03500015 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03500013 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03500014 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to microwave radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to radio wave radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03500012 .
an exposure to amlodipine .
an exposure to biguanide .
an exposure to digitalin .
an exposure to nitroglycerin .
an exposure to estrone sodium sulfate .
an exposure to probucol .
an exposure to acetylsalicylic acid .
an exposure to diltiazem .
an exposure to estrogen .
an exposure to heparin .
an exposure to nifedipine .
an exposure to thiazolidinediones .
an exposure to verapamil .
an exposure to hydrogen chloride .
an exposure to sulfuric acid .
an exposure to phosphoric acid .
an exposure to acetic acid .
an exposure to nitric acid .
an exposure to alkali metal salt .
an exposure to sodium hydroxide .
an exposure to magnesium hydroxide .
an exposure to calcium hydroxide .
an exposure to potassium hydroxide .
an exposure to alcohol .
an exposure to ethanol .
an exposure to methanol .
an exposure to aluminium molecular entity .
an exposure to aluminium oxides .
an exposure to ammonia .
an exposure to arsenic molecular entity .
an exposure to asbestos .
an exposure to benzene .
an exposure to xylene .
an exposure to toluene .
an exposure to chromium molecular entity .
an exposure to chromate ( 2 -  )  .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dichloroethane .
an exposure to chloroform .
an exposure to chloroprene .
an exposure to ketone .
an exposure to dichloromethane .
an exposure to tetrachloromethane .
an exposure to carbon dioxide .
an exposure to dinitrogen oxide .
an exposure to ozone .
an exposure to talc .
an exposure to biphenyls .
an exposure to bisphenol a .
an exposure to dichlorobenzene .
an exposure to ethylbenzene .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dibromoethane .
an exposure to coal - tar pitch .
an exposure to nickel molecular entity .
an exposure to chloroethane .
an exposure to 2 - methoxyethanol .
an exposure to 2 - ethoxyethanol .
an exposure to 2 - butoxyethanol .
an exposure to polychlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to styrene .
an exposure to phosgene .
an exposure to phenol .
an exposure to silicon dioxide .
an exposure to tetrachloroethene .
an exposure to trichloroethene .
an exposure to sodium hypochlorite .
an exposure to chlorine molecular entity .
an exposure to triclosan .
an exposure to pralidoxime iodide .
an exposure to urethane .
an exposure to polyurethane polymer .
an exposure to butanone .
an exposure to iodine molecular entity .
an exposure to acetone .
an exposure to iron molecular entity .
an exposure to insecticide .
an exposure to rodenticide .
an exposure to fertilizer .
an exposure to fungicide .
an exposure to perfluorooctane - 1 - sulfonic acid .
an exposure to perfluorooctanoic acid .
an exposure to methyl tert - butyl ether .
an exposure to radon molecular entity .
an exposure to bromomethane .
an exposure to propan - 2 - ol .
an exposure to butan - 1 - ol .
an exposure to toluene meta - diisocyanate .
an exposure to toluene 2 , 6 - diisocyanate .
an exposure to toluene 2 , 4 - diisocyanate .
an exposure to diphenylmethane - 4 , 4' - diisocyanate .
an exposure to uranium molecular entity .
an exposure to polymer .
an exposure to solvent .
an exposure to sodium carbonate .
an exposure to sodium silicate .
an exposure to edta ( 2 -  )  .
an exposure to hexane .
an exposure to heptane .
an exposure to rubber particle .
an exposure to epichlorohydrin .
an exposure to polyethylene polymer .
an exposure to alpha - pinene .
an exposure to beta - pinene .
an exposure to citronellol .
an exposure to citronellal .
an exposure to geraniol .
an exposure to n , n - diethyl - m - toluamide .
an exposure to cyfluthrin .
an exposure to folic acid .
an exposure to 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate .
an exposure to vitamin a .
an exposure to beta - carotene .
an exposure to retinyl palmitate .
an exposure to all - trans - retinol .
an exposure to all - trans - retinal .
an exposure to 11 - cis - retinal .
an exposure to all - trans - retinoic acid .
an exposure to 9 - cis - retinoic acid .
an exposure to vitamin d .
an exposure to vitamin d2 .
an exposure to d3 vitamins .
an exposure to tocopherol .
an exposure to  (  +  )  - alpha - tocopherol .
an exposure to  (  -  )  - alpha - tocopherol .
an exposure to vitamin k .
an exposure to phylloquinone .
an exposure to menaquinone .
an exposure to menadione .
an exposure to vitamin c .
an exposure to l - ascorbic acid .
an exposure to ascorbic acid .
an exposure to sodium ascorbate .
an exposure to thiamine .
an exposure to thiamine hydrochloride .
an exposure to riboflavin .
an exposure to reactive oxygen species .
an exposure to superoxide .
an exposure to singlet dioxygen .
an exposure to oxygen radical .
an exposure to amphetamine .
an exposure to lipid hydroperoxide .
an exposure to water .
an exposure to photon .
an exposure to ethene .
an exposure to 2 - cis - abscisic acid .
an exposure to gibberellin .
an exposure to brassinosteroid .
an exposure to carbohydrate .
an exposure to sucrose .
an exposure to hexose .
an exposure to glucose .
an exposure to fructose .
an exposure to salicylic acid .
an exposure to jasmonic acid .
an exposure to 1 - aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid .
an exposure to acetate .
an exposure to inorganic molecular entity .
an exposure to boron molecular entity .
an exposure to metal cation .
an exposure to iron cation .
an exposure to iron ( 2 +  )  .
an exposure to iron ( 3 +  )  .
an exposure to manganese cation .
an exposure to zinc cation .
an exposure to aluminium cation .
an exposure to nickel cation .
an exposure to chlorate .
an exposure to caesium molecular entity .
an exposure to nitrate .
an exposure to chitin .
an exposure to lithium ( 1 +  )  .
an exposure to proline .
an exposure to organonitrogen compound .
an exposure to thiamine ( 1 +  )  .
an exposure to selenium ion .
an exposure to silver cation .
an exposure to lead cation .
an exposure to trehalose .
an exposure to sulfur dioxide .
an exposure to mannitol .
an exposure to cycloalkane .
an exposure to isoquinoline alkaloid .
an exposure to tropane .
an exposure to purines .
an exposure to amine .
an exposure to fluoxetine .
an exposure to caffeine .
an exposure to brefeldin a .
an exposure to cobalt cation .
an exposure to magnesium cation .
an exposure to rhamnose .
an exposure to estradiol .
an exposure to peptidoglycan .
an exposure to muramyl dipeptide .
an exposure to lipopolysaccharide .
an exposure to retinoic acid .
an exposure to progesterone .
an exposure to hydroperoxide .
an exposure to alkyl hydroperoxide .
an exposure to vitamin e .
an exposure to atp .
an exposure to testosterone .
an exposure to cobalamin .
an exposure to hydroxyisoflavone .
an exposure to genistein .
an exposure to glucagon .
an exposure to triglyceride .
an exposure to oleate .
an exposure to monosaccharide .
an exposure to disaccharide .
an exposure to maltose .
an exposure to vitamin b6 .
an exposure to prostaglandin .
an exposure to prostaglandins e .
an exposure to prostaglandins f .
an exposure to prostaglandins i .
an exposure to histamine .
an exposure to ecdysone .
an exposure to nicotine .
an exposure to stilbenoid .
an exposure to nitrogen dioxide .
an exposure to potassium ( 1 +  )  .
an exposure to trichostatin a .
an exposure to amiloride .
an exposure to methylamine .
an exposure to methylphenidate .
an exposure to gemcitabine .
an exposure to statin .
an exposure to lapatinib .
an exposure to 5 - fluorouracil .
an exposure to iloperidone .
an exposure to ximelagatran .
an exposure to sterol .
an exposure to cocaine .
an exposure to hydrogen peroxide .
an exposure to amino acid .
an exposure to leucine .
an exposure to morphine .
an exposure to alkaloid .
an exposure to double - stranded rna .
an exposure to peptide hormone .
an exposure to corticotropin - releasing hormone .
an exposure to amylopectin .
an exposure to pullulan .
an exposure to ether .
an exposure to bacteriocin .
an exposure to streptomycin .
an exposure to ddt .
an exposure to carbamate .
an exposure to cyclodiene organochlorine insecticide .
an exposure to organophosphorus compound .
an exposure to cadmium cation .
an exposure to copper cation .
an exposure to mercury cation .
an exposure to tellurium ion .
an exposure to cycloheximide .
an exposure to mineralocorticoid .
an exposure to cortisone .
an exposure to cortisol .
an exposure to 3' , 5' - cyclic amp .
an exposure to calcium cation .
an exposure to methylglyoxal .
an exposure to methylmercury ( 1 +  )  .
an exposure to lipoprotein .
an exposure to ammonium ion derivative .
an exposure to 3' , 5' - cyclic gmp .
an exposure to lipoteichoic acid .
an exposure to platinum cation .
an exposure to fatty acid .
an exposure to linoleate .
an exposure to cholesterol .
an exposure to biotin .
an exposure to mycophenolate .
an exposure to dexamethasone .
an exposure to indole - 3 - methanol .
an exposure to nitric oxide .
an exposure to prostaglandins d .
an exposure to monoamine .
an exposure to catecholamine .
an exposure to adrenaline .
an exposure to noradrenaline .
an exposure to bismuth ion .
an exposure to methyl methanesulfonate .
an exposure to mercaptoethanol .
an exposure to sodium dodecyl sulfate .
an exposure to glucitol .
an exposure to hydroxyurea .
an exposure to thiabendazole .
an exposure to actinomycin d .
an exposure to cisplatin .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - dithiothreitol .
an exposure to amitrole .
an exposure to 4 - nitroquinoline n - oxide .
an exposure to cccp .
an exposure to papulacandin b .
an exposure to staurosporine .
an exposure to tert - butyl hydroperoxide .
an exposure to 1 , 1' - azobis ( n , n - dimethylformamide )  .
an exposure to benzoic acid .
an exposure to indole - 3 - butyric acid .
an exposure to nitrite .
an exposure to histidine .
an exposure to phenylalanine .
an exposure to alpha , alpha - trehalose 6 - phosphate ( 2 -  )  .
an exposure to phenylpropanoid .
an exposure to l - thyroxine .
an exposure to azide anion .
an exposure to farnesol .
an exposure to n - acetyl - d - glucosamine .
an exposure to carboplatin .
an exposure to floxuridine .
an exposure to cytarabine .
an exposure to olanzapine .
an exposure to perphenazine .
an exposure to quetiapine .
an exposure to risperidone .
an exposure to ziprasidone .
an exposure to clozapine .
an exposure to chloramphenicol .
an exposure to erythromycin .
an exposure to trichodermin .
an exposure to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / chebi_22584 .
an exposure to tetracycline .
an exposure to tacrolimus hydrate .
an exposure to cytochalasin b .
an exposure to leptomycin b .
an exposure to l - thialysine .
an exposure to l - canavanine .
an exposure to sirolimus .
an exposure to l - cysteine .
an exposure to glutathione .
an exposure to formic acid .
an exposure to furfural .
an exposure to propan - 1 - ol .
an exposure to decalin .
an exposure to diphenyl ether .
an exposure to tetralin .
an exposure to p - xylene .
an exposure to hypochlorite .
an exposure to raffinose .
an exposure to paracetamol .
an exposure to paclitaxel .
an exposure to candesartan .
an exposure to fenofibrate .
an exposure to metformin .
an exposure to ribavirin .
an exposure to purvalanol a .
an exposure to benomyl .
an exposure to paraquat .
an exposure to camptothecin .
an exposure to gw 7647 .
an exposure to capsazepine .
an exposure to hesperadin .
an exposure to reversine .
an exposure to carbendazim .
an exposure to peptide .
an exposure to nitrogen molecular entity .
an exposure to tamsulosin .
an exposure to ketamine .
an exposure to l - glutamate ( 2 -  )  .
an exposure to salt .
an exposure to diethyl maleate .
an exposure to inositol .
an exposure to catechin .
an exposure to strigolactone .
an exposure to chloroquine .
an exposure to imidacloprid .
an exposure to vanadate ( 3 -  )  .
an exposure to cyclophosphamide .
an exposure to docetaxel trihydrate .
an exposure to doxorubicin .
an exposure to etoposide .
an exposure to 4' - epidoxorubicin .
an exposure to n - phenylthiourea .
an exposure to fluoride .
an exposure to isobutanol .
an exposure to plumbagin .
an exposure to alkane .
an exposure to nonane .
an exposure to decane .
an exposure to undecane .
an exposure to dodecane .
an exposure to isooctane .
an exposure to 1 -  ( 3 , 5 - dichloro - 2 , 6 - dihydroxy - 4 - methoxyphenyl ) hexan - 1 - one .
an exposure to polycyclic arene .
an exposure to dopamine .
an exposure to bile acid .
an exposure to glycoside .
an exposure to lipoic acid .
an exposure to simvastatin .
an exposure to acetylsalicylate .
an exposure to clopidogrel .
an exposure to dehydroepiandrosterone .
an exposure to 11 - deoxycorticosterone .
an exposure to butyrate .
an exposure to l - arginine .
an exposure to arsenite ( 3 -  )  .
an exposure to arsenite ion .
an exposure to cyanide .
an exposure to sodium arsenite .
an exposure to acrylamide .
an exposure to latrunculin b .
an exposure to micafungin .
an exposure to monosodium glutamate .
an exposure to aroclor 1254 .
an exposure to serotonin .
an exposure to thyroglobulin triiodothyronine .
an exposure to aldosterone .
an exposure to acadesine .
an exposure to vasopressin .
an exposure to nonylphenol .
an exposure to desipramine .
an exposure to cordycepin .
an exposure to gold ( 3 +  )  .
an exposure to methamphetamine hydrochloride .
an exposure to 2 - o - acetyl - 1 - o - hexadecyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine .
an exposure to forskolin .
an exposure to kainic acid .
an exposure to sodium phosphate .
an exposure to l - phenylalanine derivative .
an exposure to thyroid stimulating hormone .
an exposure to nocodazole .
an exposure to d - galactosamine .
an exposure to l - dopa .
an exposure to tetrahydrofolate .
an exposure to 17alpha - ethynylestradiol .
an exposure to arachidonic acid .
an exposure to dextromethorphan .
an exposure to diphenidol .
an exposure to 1 - oleoyl - sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate .
an exposure to wortmannin .
an exposure to tunicamycin .
an exposure to thapsigargin .
an exposure to polyamine macromolecule .
an exposure to putrescine .
an exposure to glycoprotein .
an exposure to monosodium l - glutamate .
an exposure to 3 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5 - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 7 , 8 - tetrachlorodibenzodioxine .
an exposure to biphenyl .
an exposure to dimethyl sulfoxide .
an exposure to phorbol 13 - acetate 12 - myristate .
an exposure to diterpene .
an exposure to glucoside .
an exposure to ionomycin .
an exposure to resveratrol .
an exposure to methionine .
an exposure to dinitrophenol .
an exposure to curcumin .
an exposure to amyloid - beta .
an exposure to rotenone .
an exposure to 3 - methylcholanthrene .
an exposure to latrunculin a .
an exposure to l - glutamine .
an exposure to hydrogen sulfide .
an exposure to palmitoleic acid .
an exposure to bleomycin .
an exposure to diosgenin .
an exposure to haloperidol .
an exposure to acetylcholine .
an exposure to temozolomide .
an exposure to gold molecular entity .
an exposure to angiotensin .
an exposure to double - stranded dna .
an exposure to dioxygen .
an exposure to atrazine .
an exposure to phthalate .
an exposure to chlorobenzene .
an exposure to nitrobenzene .
an exposure to o - xylene .
an exposure to thiocyanate .
an exposure to organofluorine compound .
an exposure to organoarsenic compound .
an exposure to ciprofloxacin .
an exposure to norfloxacin .
an exposure to thiopental .
an exposure to sulfamethazine .
an exposure to 1 -  ( 3 - chlorophenyl ) piperazine .
an exposure to metoclopramide .
an exposure to 2 - hydroxybenzothiazole .
an exposure to diuron .
an exposure to atomoxetine .
an exposure to sulfapyridine .
an exposure to 3 , 3' , 4 , 4' - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to  (  -  )  - ephedrine .
an exposure to cyclohexylsulfamic acid .
an exposure to aminophenazone .
an exposure to pyridine .
an exposure to naphthalene .
an exposure to chlordecone .
an exposure to dde .
an exposure to benzo [ d ] isothiazol - 3 - one .
an exposure to codeine .
an exposure to mycophenolic acid .
an exposure to biphenyl - 2 - ol .
an exposure to 3 , 5 - dibromo - 4 - hydroxybenzonitrile .
an exposure to tylosin .
an exposure to propachlor .
an exposure to ametryn .
an exposure to acetochlor .
an exposure to alachlor .
an exposure to albuterol .
an exposure to aldrin .
an exposure to prometryn .
an exposure to amitraz .
an exposure to amitriptyline .
an exposure to 1 - chloro - 2 , 2 - bis ( 4' - chlorophenyl ) ethylene .
an exposure to simazine .
an exposure to 4 - aminobenzenesulfonic acid .
an exposure to erythromycin b .
an exposure to erythromycin e .
an exposure to erythromycin d .
an exposure to beta - hexachlorocyclohexane .
an exposure to reserpine .
an exposure to aspartame .
an exposure to phenanthrene .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - d .
an exposure to atenolol .
an exposure to atorvastatin calcium trihydrate .
an exposure to azithromycin .
an exposure to kresoxim - methyl .
an exposure to bentazone .
an exposure to terbutylazine .
an exposure to simeton .
an exposure to naphthalene - 2 , 7 - disulfonic acid .
an exposure to bicalutamide .
an exposure to antipyrine .
an exposure to esatenolol .
an exposure to iobitridol .
an exposure to iohexol .
an exposure to iomeprol .
an exposure to iopamidol .
an exposure to bromacil .
an exposure to saccharin .
an exposure to sucralose .
an exposure to sulfadimethoxine .
an exposure to bupropion .
an exposure to gamma - hexachlorocyclohexane .
an exposure to 2 - nitrotoluene .
an exposure to carbamazepine .
an exposure to carbetamide .
an exposure to 1 - nitronaphthalene .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 3 , 3' , 5 , 5' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 3 , 3' , 6 , 6' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 5' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' , 6 , 6' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 5 - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 5 , 5' - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3' , 5 - trichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 3' , 4 , 5 - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 , 4' - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 - trichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 6 - trichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 4' - dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 4 , 4' , 6 - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 5 - dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dimethylnaphthalene .
an exposure to oxybenzone .
an exposure to fenobucarb .
an exposure to 3 , 5 - dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 4 , 4' - dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 4 - nonylphenol .
an exposure to bromodichloromethane .
an exposure to chlordane .
an exposure to chlorpyrifos .
an exposure to chlorpyrifos - methyl .
an exposure to decachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to diazinon .
an exposure to dibutyl phthalate .
an exposure to dimethoate .
an exposure to dinoseb .
an exposure to heptachlor .
an exposure to metribuzin .
an exposure to mirex .
an exposure to prometon .
an exposure to trifluralin .
an exposure to tris ( 2 - butoxyethyl )  phosphate .
an exposure to 3 , 3' , 5 , 5' - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to perfluorodecanoic acid .
an exposure to perfluoroheptanoic acid .
an exposure to cetirizine .
an exposure to dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to trichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to  ( s )  - bupropion .
an exposure to  ( r )  - bupropion .
an exposure to  ( trifluoromethyl ) benzene .
an exposure to cilastatin .
an exposure to citalopram .
an exposure to clarithromycin .
an exposure to clindamycin .
an exposure to clomazone .
an exposure to clotrimazole .
an exposure to propazine .
an exposure to cyanazine .
an exposure to monuron .
an exposure to mesotrione .
an exposure to perfluorononanoic acid .
an exposure to methoxyfenozide .
an exposure to tebufenozide .
an exposure to methiocarb .
an exposure to rosuvastatin .
an exposure to ethion .
an exposure to parathion - methyl .
an exposure to pirimiphos - methyl .
an exposure to cis - chlordane .
an exposure to trans - chlordane .
an exposure to alpha - hexachlorocyclohexane .
an exposure to acetamiprid .
an exposure to  ( e )  - acetamiprid .
an exposure to  ( z )  - acetamiprid .
an exposure to  ( e )  - imidacloprid .
an exposure to  ( z )  - imidacloprid .
an exposure to thiacloprid .
an exposure to  ( z )  - thiacloprid .
an exposure to  ( e )  - clothianidin .
an exposure to clothianidin .
an exposure to thiamethoxam .
an exposure to  ( e )  - thiamethoxam .
an exposure to flonicamid .
an exposure to pymetrozine .
an exposure to teflubenzuron .
an exposure to perfluorobutyric acid .
an exposure to atorvastatin .
an exposure to metsulfuron methyl .
an exposure to sitagliptin .
an exposure to cyprodinil .
an exposure to azoxystrobin .
an exposure to decylamine - n , n - dimethyl - n - oxide .
an exposure to erythromycin a .
an exposure to  ( r )  - amphetamine .
an exposure to gabapentin .
an exposure to dexibuprofen .
an exposure to terbutryn .
an exposure to naphthalene - 2 - sulfonic acid .
an exposure to  ( s )  - amphetamine .
an exposure to ritonavir .
an exposure to trimethoprim .
an exposure to benzothiazole .
an exposure to fluconazole .
an exposure to diglyme .
an exposure to pentachlorobenzene .
an exposure to diclofenac .
an exposure to furosemide .
an exposure to bezafibrate .
an exposure to 2 , 4 , 6 - tribromophenol .
an exposure to levibuprofen .
an exposure to endosulfan .
an exposure to epoxiconazole .
an exposure to eprosartan .
an exposure to trichlorofluoromethane .
an exposure to triclocarban .
an exposure to ethambutol .
an exposure to  ( e )  - roxithromycin .
an exposure to exemestane .
an exposure to diazepam .
an exposure to indometacin .
an exposure to fenoxycarb .
an exposure to  ( 4 - chloro - 2 - methylphenoxy ) acetic acid .
an exposure to fenpropimorph .
an exposure to fipronil .
an exposure to dronedarone .
an exposure to acamprosate .
an exposure to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / chebi_51062 .
an exposure to chloromethylisothiazolinone .
an exposure to amidotrizoic acid .
an exposure to  ( r )  - atenolol .
an exposure to hexachlorobenzene .
an exposure to hydrochlorothiazide .
an exposure to  ( r )  - ketamine .
an exposure to ibuprofen .
an exposure to ifosfamide .
an exposure to mephedrone .
an exposure to irbesartan .
an exposure to irgarol 1051 .
an exposure to isoprothiolane .
an exposure to isoproturon .
an exposure to esketamine .
an exposure to ketoprofen .
an exposure to iopromide .
an exposure to pravastatin .
an exposure to sotalol .
an exposure to lamotrigine .
an exposure to amisulpride .
an exposure to lenacil .
an exposure to erythromycin c .
an exposure to levamisole .
an exposure to levetiracetam .
an exposure to lidocaine .
an exposure to linuron .
an exposure to mefenamic acid .
an exposure to metalaxyl .
an exposure to metamitron .
an exposure to metazachlor .
an exposure to metformin hydrochloride .
an exposure to methadone .
an exposure to methamphetamine .
an exposure to methomyl .
an exposure to 6alpha - methylprednisolone .
an exposure to metolachlor .
an exposure to metoprolol .
an exposure to metronidazole .
an exposure to microcystin - lr .
an exposure to malachite green .
an exposure to naltrexone .
an exposure to naproxen .
an exposure to myclobutanil .
an exposure to benzotriazole .
an exposure to dichlorprop .
an exposure to nicosulfuron .
an exposure to mecoprop .
an exposure to triphenylmethane .
an exposure to n - nitrosopiperidine .
an exposure to 6 - phenyl - 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydroimidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ]  [ 1 , 3 ] thiazole .
an exposure to dexamisole .
an exposure to orbencarb .
an exposure to toxaphene .
an exposure to oseltamivir .
an exposure to oxazepam .
an exposure to cumene hydroperoxide .
an exposure to pyraclostrobin .
an exposure to pantoprazole .
an exposure to 3 , 4 , 4' , 5 - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 3 , 4 , 5 , 3' , 4' , 5' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 , 3' , 4' - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 , 4' , 5 - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5 - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5' - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5 - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 5' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 5' - heptachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to asulam .
an exposure to desmedipham .
an exposure to phenmedipham .
an exposure to cyproconazole .
an exposure to difenoconazole .
an exposure to tebuconazole .
an exposure to cymoxanil .
an exposure to dimethenamid .
an exposure to fluazifop .
an exposure to 2 - methyl - 4 - chlorophenoxybutyric acid .
an exposure to trinexapac - ethyl .
an exposure to ioxynil .
an exposure to boscalid .
an exposure to diflufenican .
an exposure to chloridazon .
an exposure to fluazinam .
an exposure to dimethomorph .
an exposure to dicamba .
an exposure to imazamox .
an exposure to dimethachlor .
an exposure to fenpropidin .
an exposure to flufenacet .
an exposure to flusilazole .
an exposure to octhilinone .
an exposure to prosulfocarb .
an exposure to sulfluramid .
an exposure to terbumeton .
an exposure to chlorotoluron .
an exposure to ethofumesate .
an exposure to fluroxypyr .
an exposure to iprovalicarb .
an exposure to napropamide .
an exposure to propamocarb .
an exposure to propaquizafop .
an exposure to tebutam .
an exposure to atraton .
an exposure to secbumeton .
an exposure to pirimicarb .
an exposure to 3 - iodoprop - 2 - yn - 1 - yl butylcarbamate .
an exposure to thifensulfuron - methyl .
an exposure to 5 - methyl - 1h - benzotriazole .
an exposure to sulcotrione .
an exposure to perfluoropentanoic acid .
an exposure to perfluorohexanoic acid .
an exposure to perfluoroundecanoic acid .
an exposure to 6:2 fluorotelomer unsaturated carboxylic acid .
an exposure to 8:2 fluorotelomer unsaturated carboxylic acid .
an exposure to climbazole .
an exposure to tritosulfuron .
an exposure to acesulfame .
an exposure to foramsulfuron .
an exposure to neotame .
an exposure to perfluorooctane sulfonamidoacetic acid .
an exposure to n - methylperfluorooctane sulfonamidoacetic acid .
an exposure to n - ethylperfluorooctane sulfonamidoacetic acid .
an exposure to perfluorooctyl phosphate .
an exposure to iooxitalamic acid .
an exposure to 4 , 5 - dichloro - 2 - n - octyl - 3 ( 2h )  - isothiazolone .
an exposure to sebuthylazine .
an exposure to pethoxamide .
an exposure to pinoxaden .
an exposure to moclobemide .
an exposure to neohesperidin dihydrochalcone .
an exposure to 1 -  ( 3 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ) piperazine .
an exposure to 1 - benzylpiperazine .
an exposure to bisperfluorooctyl phosphate .
an exposure to bisperfluorodecyl phosphate .
an exposure to perfluorodecyl phosphate .
an exposure to pendimethalin .
an exposure to prednisolone .
an exposure to primidone .
an exposure to quinmerac .
an exposure to prochloraz .
an exposure to propiconazole .
an exposure to propranolol .
an exposure to flumequine .
an exposure to heptachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to pyrimethanil .
an exposure to acid red 4 .
an exposure to  ( r )  -  (  +  )  - propranolol .
an exposure to  ( r )  - salbutamol .
an exposure to ranitidine .
an exposure to brilliant green .
an exposure to brilliant green cation .
an exposure to sirius red 4b .
an exposure to rimsulfuron .
an exposure to perfluorododecanoic acid .
an exposure to spironolactone .
an exposure to spiroxamine .
an exposure to sulfadiazine .
an exposure to sulfamethoxazole .
an exposure to sulfathiazole .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dichlorobenzonitrile .
an exposure to telmisartan .
an exposure to tramadol .
an exposure to trichlopyr .
an exposure to trimipramine .
an exposure to valsartan .
an exposure to venlafaxine .
an exposure to phthalate ester .
an exposure to heptachlor epoxide .
an exposure to antimony ( 0 )  .
an exposure to thallium .
an exposure to fluorene .
an exposure to 1 , 1 , 1 - trichloroethane .
an exposure to 1 , 1 , 2 , 2 - tetrachloroethane .
an exposure to 1 , 1 , 2 - trichloroethane .
an exposure to 1 , 1 - dichloroethane .
an exposure to 1 , 1 - dichloroethene .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dibromo - 3 - chloropropane .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dichlorobenzene .
an exposure to cis - 1 , 2 - dichloroethene .
an exposure to trans - 1 , 2 - dichloroethene .
an exposure to rac - 1 , 2 - dichloropropane .
an exposure to 2 , 5 - dimethylfuran .
an exposure to dibromomethane .
an exposure to hexachloroethane .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' - tetrabromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl 2 , 4 , 5 - tribromophenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 5' - hexabromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 6' - hexabromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 3 , 4 , 4' , 5' , 6 - heptabromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to paraben .
an exposure to perchlorate .
an exposure to daidzein .
an exposure to enterodiol .
an exposure to enterolactone .
an exposure to equol .
an exposure to o - desmethylangolensin .
an exposure to arsenobetaine .
an exposure to dimethylarsinic acid .
an exposure to antimony molecular entity .
an exposure to barium molecular entity .
an exposure to beryllium molecular entity .
an exposure to cobalt molecular entity .
an exposure to copper molecular entity .
an exposure to lead molecular entity .
an exposure to manganese molecular entity .
an exposure to molybdenum molecular entity .
an exposure to platinum molecular entity .
an exposure to selenium molecular entity .
an exposure to strontium molecular entity .
an exposure to tin molecular entity .
an exposure to tungsten molecular entity .
an exposure to zinc molecular entity .
an exposure to methylparaben .
an exposure to methylarsonic acid .
an exposure to abamectin .
an exposure to acephate .
an exposure to acetaldehyde .
an exposure to acetamide .
an exposure to acetonitrile .
an exposure to acetophenone .
an exposure to 2 - acetamidofluorene .
an exposure to acrolein .
an exposure to acrylic acid .
an exposure to acrylonitrile .
an exposure to aldicarb .
an exposure to  (  +  )  - trans - allethrin .
an exposure to allyl alcohol .
an exposure to allyl chloride .
an exposure to aluminium atom .
an exposure to aluminium phosphide .
an exposure to aluminium oxide .
an exposure to 2 - aminoanthraquinone .
an exposure to 4 -  ( phenylazo ) aniline .
an exposure to biphenyl - 4 - amine .
an exposure to 1 - amino - 2 - methylanthraquinone .
an exposure to 1 - amino - 2 , 4 - dibromoanthraquinone .
an exposure to anilazine .
an exposure to aniline .
an exposure to o - anisidine .
an exposure to anthracene .
an exposure to bendiocarb .
an exposure to benzal chloride .
an exposure to benzamide .
an exposure to benzidine .
an exposure to  ( trichloromethyl ) benzene .
an exposure to benzoyl chloride .
an exposure to benzoyl peroxide .
an exposure to benzyl chloride .
an exposure to bifenthrin .
an exposure to bis ( chloromethyl )  ether .
an exposure to bis ( 2 - chloro - 1 - methylethyl ) ether .
an exposure to tributylstannane .
an exposure to boron trifluoride .
an exposure to bromochlorodifluoromethane .
an exposure to bromoform .
an exposure to brucine .
an exposure to buta - 1 , 3 - diene .
an exposure to butyl acrylate .
an exposure to butan - 2 - ol .
an exposure to tert - butanol .
an exposure to butanal .
an exposure to calcium cyanamide .
an exposure to captan .
an exposure to carbaryl .
an exposure to carbofuran .
an exposure to carbon disulfide .
an exposure to carbonyl sulfide .
an exposure to carboxin .
an exposure to catechol .
an exposure to quinomethionate .
an exposure to chloramben .
an exposure to chlorendic acid .
an exposure to chlorimuron - ethyl .
an exposure to chlorine atom .
an exposure to chlorine dioxide .
an exposure to quaternium - 15 .
an exposure to 4 - chloroaniline .
an exposure to chlorobenzilate .
an exposure to chlorodifluoromethane .
an exposure to chloromethane .
an exposure to chloromethyl methyl ether .
an exposure to chloropicrin .
an exposure to chlorothalonil .
an exposure to guinea green b .
an exposure to sudan ii .
an exposure to ortho - aminoazotoluene .
an exposure to sudan i .
an exposure to auramine o free base .
an exposure to vat yellow 4 .
an exposure to cobalt atom .
an exposure to para - cresidine .
an exposure to m - cresol .
an exposure to o - cresol .
an exposure to p - cresol .
an exposure to cresol .
an exposure to crotonaldehyde .
an exposure to cycloate .
an exposure to cyclohexane .
an exposure to cyclohexanol .
an exposure to cyhalothrin .
an exposure to  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy ) acetate .
an exposure to dazomet .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - db .
an exposure to decabromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - diaminoanisole .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - diaminotoluene .
an exposure to diazomethane .
an exposure to dibenzofuran .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dichloro - 4 - nitroaniline .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - dichlorobenzene .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - dichlorobenzene .
an exposure to 3 , 3' - dichlorobenzidine .
an exposure to trans - 1 , 4 - dichlorobutene .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dichloroethene .
an exposure to 4 - chlorophenol .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dichlorophenol .
an exposure to  ( e )  - 1 , 3 - dichloropropene .
an exposure to dichlorvos .
an exposure to diclofop - methyl .
an exposure to dicofol .
an exposure to dicyclopentadiene .
an exposure to diepoxybutane .
an exposure to diethanolamine .
an exposure to diethyl sulfate .
an exposure to diflubenzuron .
an exposure to diglycidyl resorcinol ether .
an exposure to dihydrosafrole .
an exposure to dimethipin .
an exposure to 3 , 3' - dimethoxybenzidine .
an exposure to dimethylamine .
an exposure to n , n - dimethylaniline .
an exposure to 3 , 3' - dimethylbenzidine .
an exposure to n , n - dimethylformamide .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dimethylphenol .
an exposure to dimethyl phthalate .
an exposure to dimethyl sulfate .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - dinitrobenzene .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dinitrobenzene .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - dinitrobenzene .
an exposure to 4 , 6 - dinitro - o - cresol .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dinitrophenol .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dinitrotoluene .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dinitrotoluene .
an exposure to dinitrotoluene .
an exposure to dinocap .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - dioxane .
an exposure to diphenamid .
an exposure to diphenylamine .
an exposure to phenylhydrazine .
an exposure to 1 - dodecylguanidine .
an exposure to ethoprophos .
an exposure to ethyl acrylate .
an exposure to eptc .
an exposure to ethylene glycol .
an exposure to aziridine .
an exposure to oxirane .
an exposure to famphur .
an exposure to fenarimol .
an exposure to fenbutatin oxide .
an exposure to fenoxaprop ethyl .
an exposure to fenpropathrin .
an exposure to fenthion .
an exposure to fenvalerate .
an exposure to ferbam .
an exposure to fluazifop - butyl .
an exposure to fluometuron .
an exposure to fluorine atom .
an exposure to fluvalinate .
an exposure to folpet .
an exposure to fomesafen .
an exposure to furan .
an exposure to glycidol .
an exposure to hexachloro - 1 , 3 - butadiene .
an exposure to hexachlorophene .
an exposure to hexamethylphosphoric triamide .
an exposure to hexazinone .
an exposure to hydramethylnon .
an exposure to hydrazine .
an exposure to hydrogen cyanide .
an exposure to hydrogen fluoride .
an exposure to hydroquinone .
an exposure to enilconazole .
an exposure to pentacarbonyliron .
an exposure to isobutyraldehyde .
an exposure to isodrin .
an exposure to isoprene .
an exposure to isosafrole .
an exposure to trifluoromethyl group .
an exposure to lithium carbonate .
an exposure to malathion .
an exposure to maleic anhydride .
an exposure to malononitrile .
an exposure to maneb .
an exposure to manganese atom .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - benzothiazole - 2 - thiol .
an exposure to methazole .
an exposure to methoxychlor .
an exposure to methyl acrylate .
an exposure to 4 , 4' - diaminodiphenylmethane .
an exposure to o - methyleugenol .
an exposure to iodomethane .
an exposure to methyl isobutyl ketone .
an exposure to methyl isocyanate .
an exposure to methyl isothiocyanate .
an exposure to 2 - hydroxy - 2 - methylpropanenitrile .
an exposure to methyl methacrylate .
an exposure to n - methylolacrylamide .
an exposure to 2 - methylpyridine .
an exposure to metiram .
an exposure to mevinphos .
an exposure to molinate .
an exposure to molybdenum trioxide .
an exposure to bis ( 2 - chloroethyl )  sulfide .
an exposure to nabam .
an exposure to naled .
an exposure to 1 - naphthylamine .
an exposure to 2 - naphthylamine .
an exposure to nitrapyrin .
an exposure to nitrilotriacetic acid .
an exposure to 4 - nitroaniline .
an exposure to 2 - nitroanisole .
an exposure to 2 - methoxy - 5 - nitroaniline .
an exposure to 4 - nitrobiphenyl .
an exposure to nitrofen .
an exposure to 2 - chloroethyl group .
an exposure to nitromethane .
an exposure to 2 - nitrophenol .
an exposure to 4 - nitrophenol .
an exposure to 2 - nitropropane .
an exposure to n - nitrosodi - n - butylamine .
an exposure to n - nitrosodiethylamine .
an exposure to n - nitrosodimethylamine .
an exposure to n - nitrosodiphenylamine .
an exposure to n - nitrosodi - n - propylamine .
an exposure to n - methyl - n - nitrosourea .
an exposure to n - nitrosomethylvinylamine .
an exposure to n - nitrosomorpholine .
an exposure to 5 - nitro - o - toluidine .
an exposure to norflurazon .
an exposure to octachlorostyrene .
an exposure to oryzalin .
an exposure to osmium tetroxide .
an exposure to oxydemeton - methyl .
an exposure to oxyfluorfen .
an exposure to paraldehyde .
an exposure to paraquat dichloride .
an exposure to p - nitrophenyl group .
an exposure to pebulate .
an exposure to pentan - 3 - yl group .
an exposure to pentachloroethane .
an exposure to pentachlorophenol .
an exposure to pentobarbital sodium .
an exposure to permethrin .
an exposure to phenolphthalein .
an exposure to phenothrin .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - phenylenediamine .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - phenylenediamine .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - phenylenediamine .
an exposure to phenytoin .
an exposure to phosphine .
an exposure to phosphorus molecular entity .
an exposure to phthalic anhydride .
an exposure to picloram .
an exposure to picric acid .
an exposure to piperonyl butoxide .
an exposure to potassium bromate .
an exposure to profenofos .
an exposure to isopropyl group .
an exposure to propyzamide .
an exposure to propargite .
an exposure to prop - 2 - yn - 1 - ol .
an exposure to propetamphos .
an exposure to beta - propiolactone .
an exposure to propanal .
an exposure to propoxur .
an exposure to propene .
an exposure to 2 - methylaziridine .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - epoxypropane .
an exposure to quinoline .
an exposure to quinone .
an exposure to pentachloronitrobenzene .
an exposure to quizalofop - ethyl .
an exposure to resmethrin .
an exposure to safrole .
an exposure to sethoxydim .
an exposure to silver atom .
an exposure to sodium azide .
an exposure to sodium fluoroacetate .
an exposure to sodium nitrite .
an exposure to styrene oxide .
an exposure to sulfuryl difluoride .
an exposure to sulprofos .
an exposure to tert - butyl group .
an exposure to temephos .
an exposure to terbacil .
an exposure to 3 , 3' , 5 , 5' - tetrabromobisphenol a .
an exposure to 1 , 1 , 1 , 2 - tetrachloroethane .
an exposure to tetrachlorvinphos .
an exposure to tetracycline hydrochloride .
an exposure to tetrafluoroethene .
an exposure to tetranitromethane .
an exposure to tetramethrin .
an exposure to thioacetamide .
an exposure to thiobencarb .
an exposure to 4 , 4' - thiodianiline .
an exposure to thiodicarb .
an exposure to thiourea .
an exposure to thiram .
an exposure to thorium dioxide .
an exposure to o - toluidine .
an exposure to triadimefon .
an exposure to tri - allate .
an exposure to triaziquone .
an exposure to tribenuron methyl .
an exposure to tribufos .
an exposure to trichlorfon .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 4 - trichlorobenzene .
an exposure to 2 , 4 , 5 - trichlorophenol .
an exposure to 2 , 4 , 6 - trichlorophenol .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 - trichloropropane .
an exposure to triethylamine .
an exposure to triforine .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 4 - trimethylbenzene .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 5 - trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate .
an exposure to fentin chloride .
an exposure to fentin hydroxide .
an exposure to tris ( 2 , 3 - dibromopropyl )  phosphate .
an exposure to trypan blue .
an exposure to vanadium molecular entity .
an exposure to vinclozolin .
an exposure to vinyl acetate .
an exposure to bromoethene .
an exposure to chloroethene .
an exposure to fluoroethene .
an exposure to m - xylene .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
an exposure to zinc atom .
an exposure to zineb .
an exposure to chlorophenol .
an exposure to diisocyanate .
an exposure to silver molecular entity .
an exposure to thallium molecular entity .
an exposure to boron atom .
an exposure to l - lysine .
an exposure to benzo [ a ] pyrene .
an exposure to 1 , 6 - dinitropyrene .
an exposure to 1 , 8 - dinitropyrene .
an exposure to 5 - methylchrysene .
an exposure to 6 - nitrochrysene .
an exposure to 1 - nitropyrene .
an exposure to 4 - nitropyrene .
an exposure to 3 , 3' - dimethoxybenzidine - 4 , 4' - diisocyanate .
an exposure to hexamethylene diisocyanate .
an exposure to isophorone diisocyanate .
an exposure to 1 , 5 - naphthalene diisocyanate .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 7 , 8 - hexachlorodibenzodioxin .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 , 7 , 8 - hexachlorodibenzodioxin .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 8 - heptachlorodibenzodioxin .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 7 , 8 - tetrachlorodibenzofuran .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 8 - heptachlorodibenzofuran .
an exposure to squalene .
an exposure to inulin .
an exposure to primary alcohol .
an exposure to lycopene .
an exposure to quercetin .
an exposure to 1h - pyrazole .
an exposure to 1 - methyl - 4 - phenyl - 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 - tetrahydropyridine .
an exposure to polysaccharide .
an exposure to n - methyl - n' - nitro - n - nitrosoguanidine .
an exposure to alpha - tocopherol .
an exposure to n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea .
an exposure to 7 , 12 - dimethyltetraphene .
an exposure to alendronic acid .
an exposure to phosphate .
an exposure to retinoid .
an exposure to sodium chloride .
an exposure to ceftriaxone .
an exposure to sodium nitroprusside .
an exposure to potassium chloride .
an exposure to technetium - 99 .
an exposure to captopril .
an exposure to phenols .
an exposure to carrageenan .
an exposure to 4 - octylphenol .
an exposure to pentolinium ion .
an exposure to ruthenium red .
an exposure to sulfonamide .
an exposure to benfotiamine .
an exposure to diethylstilbestrol .
an exposure to acepromazine .
an exposure to dihydrocapsaicin .
an exposure to 5 - bromo - 2' - deoxyuridine .
an exposure to 4 - methyl - 2 - oxopentanoic acid .
an exposure to angiotensin ii .
an exposure to lithium chloride .
an exposure to naringenin .
an exposure to titanium dioxide nanoparticle .
an exposure to pristane .
an exposure to glyburide .
an exposure to pentolinium tartrate .
an exposure to guanethidine .
an exposure to isotretinoin .
an exposure to isoprenaline .
an exposure to losartan .
an exposure to methacholine .
an exposure to methylene blue .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dimethylhydrazine .
an exposure to chrysin .
an exposure to 3 - methyl - 4' - dimethylaminoazobenzene .
an exposure to oxidopamine .
an exposure to phenylephrine .
an exposure to streptozocin .
an exposure to trimethaphan camsylate .
an exposure to heroin .
an exposure to organotin compound .
an exposure to organotin acaricide .
an exposure to acetic anhydride .
an exposure to acetylene .
an exposure to ammonium chloride .
an exposure to arsane .
an exposure to thiophenol .
an exposure to diboron trioxide .
an exposure to butane .
an exposure to butan - 2 - one .
an exposure to butyl acetate .
an exposure to butan - 1 - amine .
an exposure to butyronitrile .
an exposure to calcium carbonate .
an exposure to calcium dihydroxide .
an exposure to calcium sulfate .
an exposure to camphor .
an exposure to epsilon - caprolactam .
an exposure to captafol .
an exposure to tetrabromomethane .
an exposure to caesium hydroxide .
an exposure to dioxidochlorine (  .
an exposure to trifluorochlorine .
an exposure to bromochloromethane .
an exposure to chromic acid .
an exposure to dichromium trioxide .
an exposure to chromyl dichloride .
an exposure to cumene .
an exposure to cyanamide .
an exposure to oxalonitrile .
an exposure to cyclohexanone .
an exposure to cyclohexene .
an exposure to cyclohexylamine .
an exposure to 1 , 3 , 5 - trinitro - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazinane .
an exposure to cyclopentadiene .
an exposure to cyclopentane .
an exposure to diacetone alcohol .
an exposure to diborane ( 6 )  .
an exposure to ferrocene .
an exposure to dieldrin .
an exposure to 2 - diethylaminoethanol .
an exposure to diethylenetriamine .
an exposure to diethyl phthalate .
an exposure to disulfiram .
an exposure to disulfoton .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - di - tert - butyl - 4 - methylphenol .
an exposure to enflurane .
an exposure to ethanolamine .
an exposure to ethyl acetate .
an exposure to ethylamine .
an exposure to 2 - chloroethanol .
an exposure to ethylenediamine .
an exposure to diethyl ether .
an exposure to ethyl formate .
an exposure to fenamiphos .
an exposure to formimidic acid .
an exposure to furfuryl alcohol .
an exposure to germane .
an exposure to alditol .
an exposure to halothane .
an exposure to hexafluoroacetone .
an exposure to hydrogen bromide .
an exposure to 1h - indene .
an exposure to iodoform .
an exposure to ferric oxide .
an exposure to iron ( 2 +  )  sulfate  ( anhydrous )  .
an exposure to isoamyl acetate .
an exposure to isoamylol .
an exposure to isobutane .
an exposure to isobutyl acetate .
an exposure to isopropylamine .
an exposure to magnesium oxide .
an exposure to malonaldehyde .
an exposure to methoxyflurane .
an exposure to methyl acetate .
an exposure to dimethoxymethane .
an exposure to heptan - 2 - one .
an exposure to methyl formate .
an exposure to methanethiol .
an exposure to monocrotophos .
an exposure to morpholine .
an exposure to tetracarbonylnickel .
an exposure to nitroethane .
an exposure to nitrogen trifluoride .
an exposure to 3 - nitrotoluene .
an exposure to octane .
an exposure to oxalic acid .
an exposure to oxygen difluoride .
an exposure to parathion .
an exposure to pentane .
an exposure to pentan - 2 - one .
an exposure to 10h - phenothiazine .
an exposure to phorate .
an exposure to phosphane .
an exposure to phosphoryl trichloride .
an exposure to phosphorus trichloride .
an exposure to propane .
an exposure to propane - 1 - thiol .
an exposure to propionic acid .
an exposure to propionitrile .
an exposure to resorcinol .
an exposure to silicon carbide .
an exposure to silane .
an exposure to trisodium hexafluoroaluminate .
an exposure to stibane .
an exposure to sulfur hexafluoride .
an exposure to sulfur tetrafluoride .
an exposure to  ( 2 , 4 , 5 - trichlorophenoxy ) acetic acid .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - diphenylbenzene .
an exposure to tetraethyllead .
an exposure to oxolane .
an exposure to thioglycolic acid .
an exposure to thionyl chloride .
an exposure to tin dioxide .
an exposure to titanium dioxide .
an exposure to tributyl phosphate .
an exposure to trimethylamine .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 - trimethylbenzene .
an exposure to 1 , 3 , 5 - trimethylbenzene .
an exposure to triphenyl phosphate .
an exposure to divanadium pentaoxide .
an exposure to 4 - hydroxy - 3 -  ( 3 - oxo - 1 - phenylbutyl )  - 1 - benzopyran - 2 - one .
an exposure to zinc dichloride .
an exposure to zinc oxide .
an exposure to azinphos - methyl .
an exposure to fentanyl .
an exposure to sarin .
an exposure to strychnine .
an exposure to ricin .
an exposure to bis ( 2 - ethylhexyl )  phthalate .
an exposure to 1 , 1 - dimethylhydrazine .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - dichloropropene .
an exposure to sodium hydrogensulfite .
an exposure to sodium fluoride .
an exposure to mechlorethamine .
an exposure to copper ( 2 +  )  .
an exposure to organochlorine insecticide .
an exposure to organochlorine pesticide .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - dioxine .
an exposure to polychlorinated dibenzodioxines and related compounds .
an exposure to polybromobiphenyl .
an exposure to polychlorinated dibenzofuran .
an exposure to disodium 5' - guanylate .
an exposure to phenylureas .
an exposure to chlorofluorocarbon .
an exposure to ethylparaben .
an exposure to propylparaben .
an exposure to hafnium atom .
an exposure to ammonium sulfamate .
an exposure to pentyl acetate .
an exposure to antu .
an exposure to barium chloride .
an exposure to calcium oxide .
an exposure to chloroacetaldehyde .
an exposure to chloroacetyl chloride .
an exposure to copper ( ii )  oxide .
an exposure to crufomate .
an exposure to dichloroacetylene .
an exposure to bis ( 2 - chloroethyl ) ether .
an exposure to dalapon .
an exposure to dicrotophos .
an exposure to diethylamine .
an exposure to pentan - 3 - one .
an exposure to 2 - methyl - 4 - heptanone .
an exposure to n , n - dimethylacetamide .
an exposure to dimethylcarbamoyl chloride .
an exposure to dioxation .
an exposure to 4 - heptanone .
an exposure to diquat .
an exposure to epn .
an exposure to heptan - 3 - one .
an exposure to ethylenethiourea .
an exposure to fensulfothion .
an exposure to fonofos .
an exposure to formamide .
an exposure to glutaraldehyde .
an exposure to glycerol .
an exposure to 2 - methylpentane - 2 , 4 - diol .
an exposure to selane .
an exposure to indium atom .
an exposure to 3 - methyl - 2 - butanol .
an exposure to isophorone .
an exposure to 4 - methyl - 3 - penten - 2 - one ,  9ci .
an exposure to methacrylic acid .
an exposure to p - methoxyphenol .
an exposure to 4 , 4' - methylene - bis -  ( 2 - chloroaniline )  .
an exposure to dicyclohexylmethane - 4 , 4' - diisocyanate .
an exposure to 5 - methyl - 2 - hexanone .
an exposure to alpha - methylstyrene .
an exposure to n - methylaniline .
an exposure to 4 - chloronitrobenzene .
an exposure to 2 - nitronaphthalene .
an exposure to 1 - nitropropane .
an exposure to 4 - nitrotoluene .
an exposure to phenyl glycidyl ether .
an exposure to n - phenyl - 2 - naphthylamine .
an exposure to phosphorus pentachloride .
an exposure to isophthalonitrile .
an exposure to pindone .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - propane sultone .
an exposure to propyl acetate .
an exposure to rhodium atom .
an exposure to fenchlorphos .
an exposure to selenium hexafluoride .
an exposure to tantalum atom .
an exposure to sulfotep .
an exposure to tellurium hexafluoride .
an exposure to tepp .
an exposure to tetramethyllead .
an exposure to sodium diphosphate .
an exposure to n - methyl - n - picrylnitramine .
an exposure to p - toluidine .
an exposure to trichloroacetic acid .
an exposure to 2 , 4 , 6 - trinitrotoluene .
an exposure to pentanal .
an exposure to 4 - vinylcyclohexene dioxide .
an exposure to vinylidene fluoride .
an exposure to zirconium atom .
an exposure to soman .
an exposure to polybromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to perfluorinated compound .
an exposure to volatile organic compound .
an exposure to perfluorobutanesulfonic acid .
an exposure to perfluorohexanesulfonic acid .
an exposure to arsenocholine .
an exposure to polychlorinated dibenzodioxine .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - dichloropropane .
an exposure to inorganic acid .
an exposure to gas molecular entity .
an exposure to 2 - bromophenyl 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl ether .
an exposure to endocrine disruptor .
an exposure to metalloid atom .
an exposure to 4 - bromophenyl 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl 3 , 4 - dibromophenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl 2 , 3 , 4 - tribromophenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl 2 , 4 , 6 - tribromophenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 5' - hexabromobiphenyl .
an exposure to perfluorooctanesulfonamide .
an exposure to trimethylarsine oxide .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .7 .7  ( dna - directed dna polymerase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to electron donor .
an exposure to electron acceptor .
an exposure to ec 2 .5 .1 .19  ( 3 - phosphoshikimate 1 - carboxyvinyltransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to acaricide .
an exposure to ec 2 .2 .1 .6  ( acetolactate synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antioxidant .
an exposure to antiviral agent .
an exposure to auxin .
an exposure to phytogenic insecticide .
an exposure to calcium ionophore .
an exposure to ec 4 .2 .1 .1  ( carbonic anhydrase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to chromophore .
an exposure to coenzyme .
an exposure to cofactor .
an exposure to compatible osmolytes .
an exposure to cytokinin .
an exposure to defoliant .
an exposure to ethylene releasers .
an exposure to fat - soluble vitamin .
an exposure to iron ( 3 +  )  chelator .
an exposure to ec 6 .3 .1 .2  ( glutamate -  - ammonia ligase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to intercalator .
an exposure to ionophore .
an exposure to jasmonates .
an exposure to nematicide .
an exposure to neonicotinoid insectide .
an exposure to nucleoside antibiotic .
an exposure to osmolyte .
an exposure to pheromone .
an exposure to phytoalexin .
an exposure to biological pigment .
an exposure to prosthetic group .
an exposure to siderophore .
an exposure to synthetic auxin .
an exposure to micronutrient .
an exposure to volatile oil component .
an exposure to water - soluble vitamin .
an exposure to detergent .
an exposure to vitamin .
an exposure to antibacterial agent .
an exposure to nutrient .
an exposure to agrochemical .
an exposure to avicide .
an exposure to fuel .
an exposure to diagnostic agent .
an exposure to reagent .
an exposure to macronutrient .
an exposure to tracer .
an exposure to plant growth retardant .
an exposure to antimetabolite .
an exposure to catalyst .
an exposure to effector .
an exposure to fossil fuel .
an exposure to central nervous system stimulant .
an exposure to antiinfective agent .
an exposure to antiparasitic agent .
an exposure to anthelminthic drug .
an exposure to antinematodal drug .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .15 .1  ( peptidyl - dipeptidase a )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antidepressant .
an exposure to psychotropic drug .
an exposure to anti - inflammatory drug .
an exposure to anxiolytic drug .
an exposure to non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug .
an exposure to antipsychotic agent .
an exposure to analgesic .
an exposure to non - narcotic analgesic .
an exposure to opioid analgesic .
an exposure to ec 1 .2 .1 .3  [ aldehyde dehydrogenase  ( nad (  +  )  )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to central nervous system depressant .
an exposure to antipyretic .
an exposure to diuretic .
an exposure to hallucinogen .
an exposure to beta - adrenergic agonist .
an exposure to bronchodilator agent .
an exposure to sympathomimetic agent .
an exposure to hypoglycemic agent .
an exposure to beta - adrenergic antagonist .
an exposure to ec 1 .14 .99 .1  ( prostaglandin - endoperoxide synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .3 .48  ( protein - tyrosine - phosphatase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antineoplastic agent .
an exposure to flavouring agent .
an exposure to anticonvulsant .
an exposure to ec 3 .5 .2 .6  ( beta - lactamase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to adrenergic uptake inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .34 / ec 1 .1 .1 .88  ( hydroxymethylglutaryl - coa reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antihypertensive agent .
an exposure to antilipemic drug .
an exposure to xenobiotic .
an exposure to immunosuppressive agent .
an exposure to sedative .
an exposure to antifungal agent .
an exposure to coccidiostat .
an exposure to antiprotozoal drug .
an exposure to anticholesteremic drug .
an exposure to antirheumatic drug .
an exposure to lipoxygenase inhibitor .
an exposure to antimicrobial drug .
an exposure to antiviral drug .
an exposure to antibacterial drug .
an exposure to oxytocic .
an exposure to local anaesthetic .
an exposure to trypanocidal drug .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .3 .16  ( phosphoprotein phosphatase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to mri contrast agent .
an exposure to protein kinase inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .11 .13  ( protein kinase c )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .1 .8  ( cholinesterase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to plant hormone .
an exposure to adrenergic antagonist .
an exposure to alpha - adrenergic antagonist .
an exposure to phenothiazine antipsychotic drug .
an exposure to h1 - receptor antagonist .
an exposure to histamine antagonist .
an exposure to dye .
an exposure to adrenergic agent .
an exposure to triazine insecticide .
an exposure to antimalarial .
an exposure to anti - arrhythmia drug .
an exposure to cardiotonic drug .
an exposure to phytosiderophore .
an exposure to iron chelator .
an exposure to chelator .
an exposure to calcium channel blocker .
an exposure to phytotoxin .
an exposure to muscarinic agonist .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .1 .7  ( acetylcholinesterase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to mitochondrial nadh:ubiquinone reductase inhibitor .
an exposure to sodium channel blocker .
an exposure to tyrosine kinase inhibitor .
an exposure to pediculicide .
an exposure to calcium channel agonist .
an exposure to calcium channel modulator .
an exposure to ryanodine receptor modulator .
an exposure to anaesthetic .
an exposure to general anaesthetic .
an exposure to inhalation anaesthetic .
an exposure to intravenous anaesthetic .
an exposure to schistosomicide drug .
an exposure to gaba - gated chloride channel antagonist .
an exposure to bridged diphenyl acaricide .
an exposure to photosensitizing agent .
an exposure to nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist .
an exposure to protein synthesis inhibitor .
an exposure to antiseptic drug .
an exposure to serotonergic antagonist .
an exposure to fragrance .
an exposure to polar solvent .
an exposure to non - polar solvent .
an exposure to protic solvent .
an exposure to polar aprotic solvent .
an exposure to amphiprotic solvent .
an exposure to antiparkinson drug .
an exposure to angiogenesis inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .21  ( aldehyde reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to dopaminergic agent .
an exposure to dopaminergic antagonist .
an exposure to radical scavenger .
an exposure to fibrin modulating drug .
an exposure to antagonist .
an exposure to cholinergic antagonist .
an exposure to muscarinic antagonist .
an exposure to nicotinic antagonist .
an exposure to prostaglandin antagonist .
an exposure to drug metabolite .
an exposure to peripheral nervous system drug .
an exposure to anti - asthmatic drug .
an exposure to anti - ulcer drug .
an exposure to contraceptive drug .
an exposure to excitatory amino acid agonist .
an exposure to androgen .
an exposure to bronchoconstrictor agent .
an exposure to keratolytic drug .
an exposure to dermatologic drug .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .4 .
an exposure to antidote .
an exposure to hematologic agent .
an exposure to anticoagulant .
an exposure to prodrug .
an exposure to gaba modulator .
an exposure to ec 5 .99 .1 .2  ( dna topoisomerase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to parasympatholytic .
an exposure to ec 1 .6 .5 .2  [ nad ( p ) h dehydrogenase  ( quinone )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to platelet aggregation inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .5 .1 .15  ( dihydropteroate synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to laxative .
an exposure to sweetening agent .
an exposure to potassium channel blocker .
an exposure to mydriatic agent .
an exposure to vasoconstrictor agent .
an exposure to protein denaturant .
an exposure to nitric oxide donor .
an exposure to cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor .
an exposure to cyclooxygenase 1 inhibitor .
an exposure to bone density conservation agent .
an exposure to antithyroid drug .
an exposure to ec 1 .5 .1 .3  ( dihydrofolate reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to cross - linking reagent .
an exposure to abortifacient .
an exposure to nutraceutical .
an exposure to antipsoriatic .
an exposure to ec 5 .99 .1 .3  [ dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolysing )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to appetite enhancer .
an exposure to immunomodulator .
an exposure to immunological adjuvant .
an exposure to antiatherogenic agent .
an exposure to anti - allergic agent .
an exposure to teratogenic agent .
an exposure to hepatotoxic agent .
an exposure to nephrotoxic agent .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .1 .137  ( phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antiemetic .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .11 .1  ( non - specific serine / threonine protein kinase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to serotonin uptake inhibitor .
an exposure to dopamine uptake inhibitor .
an exposure to antitussive .
an exposure to muscle relaxant .
an exposure to mitogen .
an exposure to ec 3 .2 .1 .18  ( exo - alpha - sialidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to proteasome inhibitor .
an exposure to epitope .
an exposure to adenosine a2a receptor antagonist .
an exposure to ghb receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .205  ( imp dehydrogenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antispasmodic drug .
an exposure to mu - opioid receptor agonist .
an exposure to antidiarrhoeal drug .
an exposure to antigen .
an exposure to hapten .
an exposure to dna synthesis inhibitor .
an exposure to phosphoantigen .
an exposure to antipruritic drug .
an exposure to electrophilic reagent .
an exposure to nucleophilic reagent .
an exposure to progestin .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .7 .49  ( rna - directed dna polymerase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .14 .18 .1  ( tyrosinase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .6 .3 .8  ( ca ( 2 +  )  - transporting atpase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to thyroid hormone .
an exposure to opioid receptor agonist .
an exposure to nmda receptor antagonist .
an exposure to anaesthesia adjuvant .
an exposure to adjuvant .
an exposure to tubulin modulator .
an exposure to nephrotoxin .
an exposure to angiotensin receptor antagonist .
an exposure to ec 3 .5 .1 .98  ( histone deacetylase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .14 .13 .39  ( nitric oxide synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to microtubule - stabilising agent .
an exposure to microtubule - destabilising agent .
an exposure to metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist .
an exposure to acyl donor .
an exposure to allelochemical .
an exposure to fuel additive .
an exposure to hepatoprotective agent .
an exposure to ec 1 .2 .3 .1  ( aldehyde oxidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .4 .2 .30  ( nad (  +  )  adp - ribosyltransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to food emulsifier .
an exposure to sphingosine - 1 - phosphate receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 2 .3 .1 .21  ( carnitine o - palmitoyltransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to t - cell proliferation inhibitor .
an exposure to reducing agent .
an exposure to oxidising agent .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .3 .1  ( alkaline phosphatase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to explosive .
an exposure to neuroprotective agent .
an exposure to retinoid x receptor agonist .
an exposure to hsp90 inhibitor .
an exposure to protein kinase c agonist .
an exposure to food additive .
an exposure to food acidity regulator .
an exposure to ec 2 .5 .1 .58  ( protein farnesyltransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .8 .15  ( udp - n - acetylglucosamine -  - dolichyl - phosphate n - acetylglucosaminephosphotransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to maldi matrix material .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .22 .38  ( cathepsin k )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .5 .1 .29  ( geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .3 .1 .43  ( arogenate dehydrogenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to monolignol .
an exposure to ec 2 .1 .2 .1  ( glycine hydroxymethyltransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to nmda receptor agonist .
an exposure to flour treatment agent .
an exposure to uremic toxin .
an exposure to glycine transporter 1 inhibitor .
an exposure to glycine receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 1 .8 .1 .9  ( thioredoxin reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .4 .11  ( phosphoinositide phospholipase c )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antimitotic .
an exposure to antimycobacterial drug .
an exposure to serine protease inhibitor .
an exposure to anti - hiv agent .
an exposure to anti - hsv - 1 agent .
an exposure to ec 1 .13 .11 .34  ( arachidonate 5 - lipoxygenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .13 .11 .33  ( arachidonate 15 - lipoxygenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .1 .3  ( triacylglycerol lipase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 4 .1 .1 .19  ( arginine decarboxylase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .3 .11  ( fructose - bisphosphatase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to adenosine a1 receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 2 .1 .1 .79  ( cyclopropane - fatty - acyl - phospholipid synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .1 .1 .72  [ site - specific dna - methyltransferase  ( adenine - specific )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to first generation antipsychotic .
an exposure to second generation antipsychotic .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .21 .5  ( thrombin )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antimicrobial food preservative .
an exposure to gaba antagonist .
an exposure to antidyskinesia agent .
an exposure to nootropic agent .
an exposure to radiation protective agent .
an exposure to tocolytic agent .
an exposure to cannabinoid receptor agonist .
an exposure to anti - inflammatory agent .
an exposure to ryanodine receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .24 .3  ( microbial collagenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to gap junctional intercellular communication inhibitor .
an exposure to retinoic acid receptor agonist .
an exposure to ap - 1 antagonist .
an exposure to provitamin a .
an exposure to mtor inhibitor .
an exposure to apoptosis inhibitor .
an exposure to apoptosis inducer .
an exposure to glutathione depleting agent .
an exposure to p2y12 receptor antagonist .
an exposure to progesterone receptor agonist .
an exposure to cell dedifferentiation agent .
an exposure to adenosine a3 receptor antagonist .
an exposure to actin polymerisation inhibitor .
an exposure to aurora kinase inhibitor .
an exposure to capsaicin receptor antagonist .
an exposure to pparalpha agonist .
an exposure to ec 1 .2 .1 .12  [ glyceraldehyde - 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase  ( phosphorylating )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to antileishmanial agent .
an exposure to g - protein - coupled receptor agonist .
an exposure to sir2 inhibitor .
an exposure to prohormone .
an exposure to adenosine receptor antagonist .
an exposure to ec 2 .3 .1 .85  ( fatty acid synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to virulence factor .
an exposure to aryl hydrocarbon receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 1 .11 .1 .11  ( l - ascorbate peroxidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to plant activator .
an exposure to abscisic acid receptor agonist .
an exposure to nf - kappab inhibitor .
an exposure to cyclooxygenase 3 inhibitor .
an exposure to ultraviolet filter .
an exposure to vulnerary .
an exposure to methionine aminopeptidase 2 inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .17 .4 .1  ( ribonucleoside - diphosphate reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antidote to paracetamol poisoning .
an exposure to antidote to curare poisoning .
an exposure to astringent .
an exposure to chromogenic compound .
an exposure to ec 5 .4 .3 .2  ( lysine 2 , 3 - aminomutase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ergosterol biosynthesis inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .11 .1 .6  ( catalase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to b vitamin .
an exposure to xenobiotic metabolite .
an exposure to greenhouse gas .
an exposure to nephroprotective agent .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .10 .2  ( non - specific protein - tyrosine kinase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .21 .26  ( prolyl oligopeptidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .5 .1 .18  ( glutathione transferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .4 .12  ( sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .11 .14  ( cytosol alanyl aminopeptidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .14 .2  ( dipeptidyl - peptidase ii )  inhibitor .
an exposure to xenoestrogen .
an exposure to phytoestrogen .
an exposure to ec 1 .10 .99 .2  [ ribosyldihydronicotinamide dehydrogenase  ( quinone )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .3 .41  ( 4 - nitrophenylphosphatase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to expectorant .
an exposure to ec 2 .1 .1 .116  [ 3' - hydroxy - n - methyl -  ( s )  - coclaurine 4' - o - methyltransferase ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .189  ( prostaglandin - e2 9 - reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to histological dye .
an exposure to food colouring .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .24 .83  ( anthrax lethal factor endopeptidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to cardioprotective agent .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .188  ( prostaglandin - f synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .25  ( shikimate dehydrogenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to maillard reaction product .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .267  ( 1 - deoxy - d - xylulose - 5 - phosphate reductoisomerase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 4 .3 .1 .3  ( histidine ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .19 .3  ( pyroglutamyl - peptidase i )  inhibitor .
an exposure to persistent organic pollutant .
an exposure to ec 4 .3 .1 .15  ( diaminopropionate ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to food antioxidant .
an exposure to food stabiliser .
an exposure to food thickening agent .
an exposure to food packaging gas .
an exposure to food bleaching agent .
an exposure to food gelling agent .
an exposure to food propellant .
an exposure to food component .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .1 .1  ( hexokinase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to refrigerant .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .1 .1  ( carboxylesterase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to protein kinase a agonist .
an exposure to adenylate cyclase agonist .
an exposure to fundamental metabolite .
an exposure to plasticiser .
an exposure to phytochrome chromophore .
an exposure to ec 3 .5 .1 .19  ( nicotinamidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to skin lightening agent .
an exposure to ec 1 .10 .3 .1  ( catechol oxidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .10 .3 .2  ( laccase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .13 .11 .24  ( quercetin 2 , 3 - dioxygenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .4 .3 .3  ( d - amino - acid oxidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to human blood serum metabolite .
an exposure to antifungal drug .
an exposure to antifungal agrochemical .
an exposure to drug allergen .
an exposure to autophagy inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 6 .4 .1 .1  ( pyruvate carboxylase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to erythropoietin inhibitor .
an exposure to elastin - laminin receptor agonist .
an exposure to antifeedant .
an exposure to chemosterilant .
an exposure to chitin synthesis inhibitor .
an exposure to cytochrome - b6f complex inhibitor .
an exposure to ecdysone antagonists .
an exposure to insect attractant .
an exposure to insect growth regulator .
an exposure to juvenile hormone antagonists .
an exposure to juvenile hormone mimic .
an exposure to pesticide synergist .
an exposure to photosynthetic electron - transport chain inhibitor .
an exposure to photosystem - i inhibitor .
an exposure to photosystem - ii inhibitor .
an exposure to precocenes .
an exposure to pyrethroid insecticide .
an exposure to molluscicide .
an exposure to acaricide drug .
an exposure to ecdysone agonist .
an exposure to carbamate insecticide .
an exposure to pyrethroid ester insecticide .
an exposure to antibiotic insecticide .
an exposure to antibiotic pesticide .
an exposure to antibiotic acaricide .
an exposure to antibiotic nematicide .
an exposure to pyrethroid ester acaricide .
an exposure to fumigant .
an exposure to fumigant insecticide .
an exposure to sulfite ester acaricide .
an exposure to mite growth regulator .
an exposure to tetrazine acaricide .
an exposure to pyrethroid ether insecticide .
an exposure to pyrethroid ether acaricide .
an exposure to homopteran inhibitor of chitin biosynthesis .
an exposure to lepidopteran inhibitor of chitin biosynthesis .
an exposure to dinitrophenol insecticide .
an exposure to antifouling biocide .
an exposure to insect sterilant .
an exposure to insect repellent .
an exposure to scabicide .
an exposure to environmental food contaminant .
an exposure to sex hormone .
an exposure to mu - opioid receptor antagonist .
an exposure to neurotransmitter agent .
an exposure to food preservative .
an exposure to flame retardant .
an exposure to methane .
an exposure to protein .
an exposure to low - density lipoprotein .
an exposure to high - density lipoprotein .
an exposure to urea .
an exposure to anilofos .
an exposure to glyphosate .
an exposure to nitrile .
an exposure to waste material .
an exposure to poly ( chloroprene )  polymer .
an exposure to epoxy group .
an exposure to polyimide polymer .
an exposure to acid .
an exposure to chlorinated naphthalene .
an exposure to polycyclic hydrocarbon .
an anthropogenic geographic feature is a geographic feature resulting from the influence of human beings on nature .
mine tailings are the materials left over after the process of separating the valuable fraction from the uneconomic fraction  ( gangue )  of an ore .
a construction which enables the movement of humans ,  their animals or their vehicles .
a geographical feature associated with water .
a marine water body which is constitutes the majority of an astronomical body's hydrosphere .
a large expanse of saline water usually connected with an ocean .
a geographical feature associated with water with a halinity above 30 ppt  ( roughly 35 g / l )  .
a lake whose water contains a considerable concentration of dissolved salts .
a body of water or other liquid of considerable size contained in a depression on a landmass .
a stream which ,  through permanent or seasonal flow processes ,  moves from elevated land towards lower elevations through a definite channel and empties either into a sea ,  lake ,  or another river or ends on land as bed seepage and evapotranspiration exceed water supply .
a watercourse which is linear and flows across the solid portion of a planetary surface .
a flowing body of water .
a body of water ,  usually of smaller size than a lake .
an vegetated area which overlaps a wetland ecosystem .
place or area with clustered or scattered buildings and a permanent human population .
an accumulation of water of varying size .
a construction that has been assembled by deliberate human effort .
a permanent walled and roofed construction .
an excavation in the earth for the purpose of extracting earth materials .
a region of general uniform slope ,  comparatively level ,  and of considerable extent .
a part of an astronomical body associated with a volcano  -  an opening ,  or rupture ,  in that body's surface or crust  -  which allows hot ,  molten rock ,  ash and gases to escape from deep below the surface .
a region rendered barren or partially barren by environmental extremes ,  especially by low rainfall .
a depression which has been formed as a result of erosion by water or ice and which is low - lying ,  bordered by higher ground ,  and especially elongate .
an area in which grasses  ( graminae )  are a significant component of the vegetation .
land having a cover of trees ,  shrubs ,  or both .
an area with a high density of trees .
a valley that no longer has a surface flow of water .
a valley that contains ,  and has been formed by ,  a stream .
a hydrographic feature characterized by the dominance of snow or ice .
soil or rock and included ice or organic material at or below the freezing point of water  ( 0 degrees celsius or 32 degrees fahrenheit )  for two or more years .
the sloping margin of a watercourse ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
the sloping margin of a stream ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
the sloping margin of a river ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical distance of a point above or below a reference surface .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of solid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
broken rock that appears at the bottom of crags ,  mountain cliffs or valley shoulders .
a wetland ecosystem in which soil is saturated with saline water .
a wetland which is inundated with water that contains low concentrations of salts .
an opening ,  or rupture ,  in the earth's surface or crust ,  which allows hot ,  molten rock ,  ash and gases to escape from deep below the surface .
a valley that contains ,  or contained ,  a glacier and was formed by glacial activity .
area covered with low - growing or stunted perennial vegetation and usually not mixed with trees .
that part of the land in immediate contact with a body of water including the area between high and low water lines .
a landform sunken or depressed below the surrounding area .
a zone beneath the land surface and above the level of permanent groundwater or phreatic zone in which water has a hydraulic head less than atmospheric pressure and is retained by a combination of adhesion and capillary action .
a compound astronomical body part which is located beneath the land surface and in which all interstices are filled with water that has a hydraulic head greater than atmospheric pressure due to the weight of overlying groundwater .
an abiotic  mesoscopic feature made of the mineral material of the crust of the earth .
a piece of rock that is two millimeters  ( 2mm )  in its largest dimension  ( about 1 / 12 of an inch )  and no more than 75 millimeters  ( about 3 inches )  .
a mass of solid material which is primarily composed of quartz or feldspar and which is or was a member of an aggregation of similar particles .
merged definition: \ ntarget definition: a large area of brine on the ocean basin near cold seep vents which release methane into the water .
the physical confine of a river ,  slough or ocean strait consisting of a bed and banks .
a biome is an ecosystem to which resident ecological communities have evolved adaptations .
a biome which is  primarily or completely situated on a landmass .
an aquatic biome which is determined by a marine water body .
a stream or river which flows into another river  ( a parent river )  or body of water but which may not flow directly into the sea .
the portion of the ground surface which lies below water .
incorporated populated place .
an aquatic biome which is determined by a body of freshwater .
a rock is a naturally occurring solid aggregate of one or more minerals or mineraloids .
the outflow of water from a mine .
a mine drainage with an acidic ph .
soil is an environmental material which is primarily composed of minerals ,  varying proportions of sand ,  silt ,  and clay ,  organic material such as humus ,  gases ,  liquids ,  and a broad range of resident micro -  and macroorganisms .
a significant accumulation of water which is part of a marine biome .
a solid astronomical body part which is part of the planetary surface between the peak of an elevation or the bottom of a depression and  relatively flat surrounding land .
water that has been adversely affected in quality by anthropogenic influence .
an excreta material which is composed primarily of feces ,  an excreta consisting of waste products expelled from an animal's digestive tract through the anus  ( or cloaca )  during defecation .
an object which is large enough to be visible to humans ,  but small enough that humans can handle the object  ( i .e .
the mixture of gases  ( roughly  ( by molar content / volume: 78% nitrogen ,  20 .95% oxygen ,  0 .93% argon ,  0 .038% carbon dioxide ,  trace amounts of other gases ,  and a variable amount  ( average around 1% )  of water vapor )  that surrounds the planet earth .
an environmental material primarily composed of dihydrogen oxide in its liquid form .
sediment is an environmental substance comprised of any particulate matter that can be transported by fluid flow and which eventually is deposited as a layer of solid particles on the bedor bottom of a body of water or other liquid .
minute solid particles with diameters less than 500 micrometers .
water which contains a significant concentration of dissolved salts .
water which has a low concentration of dissolved solutes ,  particularly that of sodium chloride .
an igneous rock that results from magma reaching the surface either as lava or fragmental ejecta .
a rock formed by deposition of either clastic sediments ,  organic matter ,  or chemical precipitates  ( evaporites )  ,  followed by compaction of the particulate matter and cementation during diagenesis .
a rock formed by subjecting any rock type  ( including previously - formed metamorphic rock )  to different temperature and pressure conditions than those in which the original rock was formed .
wastewater that is contaminated with feces or urine , 
a biome which is determined by a water body and which has ecological climax communities adapted to life in or on water .
the residual semi - solid material left from domestic or industrial processes ,  or wastewater treatment processes .
sediment characterised by the absence of oxygen .
a treated form of sludge ,  sometimes used as a fertilizer in agriculture .
a solid or gel in motor oil caused by the oil gelling or solidifying ,  usually at temperatures lower than 100deg c .
sediment which has increased levels of one or more chemical compounds .
organically enriched sediment which has increased levels of petroleum .
a portion of contaminated soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of some contaminant .
soil which has elevated concentrations of creosote .
mud which has elevated concentrations of arsenic .
mud which has no or neglible concentrations of dissolved oxygen .
the liquid produced when water percolates through any permeable material .
soil which has elevated concentrations of chromate .
soil which has elevated concentrations of xylene .
water which has physicochemical properties that have been determined by the processes occuring in a sea or ocean .
organically enriched sediment which has increased levels of naphthalene .
organically enriched sediment which has increased levels of nitrobenzene .
chemically - enriched sediment which has increased levels of organic compounds .
chemically - enriched sediment which has increased levels of inorganic compounds .
a power plant is a building which contains one or more generators which convert mechanical energy into electrical energy through the relative motion between a magnetic field and a conductor .
a geothermal power plant is a power plant which uses heat generated by the decay of radioactive isotopes in the earth's mantle and crust as well as primordial heat left over from the formation of the earth to drive its generators .
a portion of soil which is found in a forested area .
a material which is not the desired output of a process and which is typically the input of a process which removes it from its producer  ( e .g .
industrial wastes are liquid ,  solid and gaseous wastes originating from the manufacture of specific products .
a nuclear power plant is a power plant which uses heat generated by a radioactive decay in a nuclear reactor to convert water into steam in order to drive turbines in electrical generators through pressure .
fluvisols accommodate genetically young ,  azonal soils in alluvial deposits .
stagnosols are soils with a perched water table showing redoximorphic features caused by surface water .
technosols are soils whose properties and pedogenesis are dominated by their technical origin .
obsolete a material entity which determines an environmental system .
hay is grass ,  legumes or other herbaceous plants that have been cut ,  dried ,  and stored for use as animal fodder ,  particularly for grazing livestock such as cattle ,  horses ,  goats ,  and sheep .
a natural building material mode from sand ,  clay ,  water ,  and some kind of fibrous or organic material  ( sticks ,  straw ,  and / or manure )  .
the biomass remaining after sugarcane stalks are crushed to extract their juice .
soil which has elevated concentrations of oil .
a group of hydrous aluminium phyllosilicate  ( phyllosilicates being a subgroup of silicate minerals )  minerals  ( see clay minerals )  ,  that are typically less than 2 micrometres in diameter .
an oil which 1 )  is liquid at room temperature  ( approximately 20 degrees celsius )  2 )  is intended to be burned in a furnace or boiler for the generation of heat or used in an engine for the generation of power ,  3 )  is obtained from petroleum distillation ,  either as a distillate or a residue ,  4 )  composed of long hydrocarbon chains ,  particularly alkanes ,  cycloalkanes and aromatics .
a naturally occurring flammable liquid consisting of a complex mixture of hydrocarbons of various molecular weights and other liquid organic compounds ,  that are found in geologic formations beneath the planetary surfaces .
a nonpolar ,  hydrophobic ,  and lipophilic material which is a viscous liquid at ambient temperatures  ( about 20 degrees celsius )  or slightly warmer .
a fermented ,  high - moisture forage that can be fed to ruminants .
drinking water is water which may be consumed by humans with no adverse effects on their health .
a material entity that has been processed by humans or their technology in any way ,  including intermediate products as well as final products .
glue is any substance applied to the surfaces of materials that binds them together and resists separation .
soil which has elevated concentrations of metals .
a portion of enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of some material entity .
a portion of trimethylamine enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of trimethylamine .
a portion of acetamide enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of acetamide .
a portion of testosterone enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of testosterone .
a portion of salicylate enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of salicylate .
an industrial building is a building within which goods are produced and ,  optionally ,  stored or within which services are rendered .
soil which has little to no water content and in which minerals and other soluble chemical entities have either bonded or become adsorbed to sold particles due to insufficient water availability .
a portion of soil which is found in a grassland .
a portion of urea enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of urea .
a portion of chloropicrin enriched soil is a portion of soil with elevated levels of chloropicrin .
soil which has ,  as a part ,  a portion of either fresh or processed animal manure .
soil which is composed of a large proportion of mud ,  thus having properties resembling mud .
water which has physicochemical properties determined by processes which occur beneath the planetary crust .
mud which is part of a marine ecosystem .
sand which is part of a desert .
a portion of environmental material is a fiat object which forms the medium or part of the medium of an environmental system .
a layer of some material entity which is adjacent to one or more of its external boundaries and directly interacts with its immediate surroundings .
airborne solid particles  ( also called dust or particulate matter  ( pm )  )  or liquid droplets .
an underground layer of water - bearing permeable rock or unconsolidated materials  ( gravel ,  sand ,  silt ,  or clay )  from which groundwater can be usefully extracted using a water well .
anthropogenic material in or on which organisms may live .
a liquid or semi - liquid mixture of water and some combination of soil ,  silt ,  and clay .
silt is granular material of a size somewhere between sand and clay whose mineral origin is quartz and feldspar .
a naturally occurring granular material composed of finely divided rock and mineral particles .
gravel is an environmental material which is composed of pieces of rock that are at least two millimeters  ( 2mm )  in its largest dimension and no more than 75 millimeters .
the marine pelagic biome  ( pelagic meaning open sea )  is that of the marine water column ,  from the surface to the greatest depths .
the neritic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column above a continental shelf .
the oceanic epipelagic zone biome comprises the marine water column offshore ,  beyond a continental shelf .
the oceanic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of the marine surface waters occurring offshore ,  away from a continental shelf .
the neritic sea surface microlayer  ( sml )  biome comprises the top 1000 micrometers of marine surface waters occurring above a continental shelf .
a prominent or distinctive aspect ,  quality ,  or characteristic of environments occurring within the marine water column .
a marine biome which is determined by an ocean .
a marine algal bloom is a rapid increase or accumulation in the population of algae in a marine system .
particulate material is an environmental material which is composed of microscopic portions of solid or liquid material suspended in another environmental material .
environmental material derived from living organisms and composed primarily of one or more biomacromolecules .
a forest ecosystem in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a shrubland biome is a terrestrial biome which includes ,  across its entire spatial extent ,  dense groups of shrubs .
a grassland ecosystem in which dominant ecological communities have reached their climax successional state .
a desert biome is a terrestrial biome which loses more liquid water by evapotranspiration than is supplied by precipitation and includes communities adapted to these conditions .
an environmental condition is a range of a determinate quality or combination of qualities that are present in an environmental system .
a montane shrubland biome is a shrubland biome which occurs in regions elevated above sea level and which has community structure determined by elevation - dependent environmental conditions .
an anthropogenic terrestrial biome is a terrestrial biome which has community structures determined by human activity .
an environmental condition in which annual precipitation is less than half of annual potential evapotranspiration .
a scrubland which is located in a desert .
a dense settlement biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which is primarily used for human habitation ,  recreation ,  and industry within built structures with little other land use .
an urban biome is a dense settlement biome which has been urbanised .
a system which has the disposition to environ one or more material entities .
a mineral material is an environmental material which is primarily composed of some substance that is naturally occurring ,  solid and stable at room temperature ,  representable by a chemical formula ,  usually abiogenic ,  and that has an ordered atomic structure .
water vapour is a vapour which is the gas phase of water .
an atmosphere is a layer of gases surrounding a material body of sufficient mass that is held in place by the gravity of the body .
atmospheric water vapour is water vapour that is part of an atmosphere .
clastic sedimentary rocks are sedimentary rocks that are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids .
slate is a metamorphic rock which is fine - grained ,  foliated ,  homogeneous ,  slates are derived from clastic sedimentary rocks .
a large unit of land or water containing a geographically distinct assemblage of species ,  natural communities ,  and environmental conditions ."
ice is water frozen into a solid state .
ecozones delineate large areas of a planetary surface within which organisms have been evolving in relative isolation over long periods of time ,  separated from one another by geographic features ,  such as oceans ,  broad deserts ,  or high mountain ranges ,  that constitute barriers to migration .
a layer is a quantity of some material which is spatially continuous ,  has comparable thickness ,  and usually covers some surface .
a layer which is part of a lake .
a mass of water ice .
a layer that is part of a marine water body .
a river where fresh water flows .
an endolithic environment is an environment that exists within solid rock .
a high pressure environment is an environment in which all material entities are exposed to a high ratio of force per unit area .
a high temperature environment is an environment in which material entities are exposed to increased levels of heat radiation or which have molecules or atoms moving randomly with increased levels of average kinietic energy .
an aquatic environment which is determined by freshwater .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by saline water .
an environment which has a lower temperature than some local or global average .
an anthropogenic environment is an environmental system which is the product of human activity .
a high osmolarity environment is an environment in which entities are exposed to high concentrations of solutes .
an acidic environment is an environment in which material entities are exposed to a low ph .
an environment whose dynamics are strongly influenced by water .
an extreme high temperature environment is a high temperature environment in which entities are exposed to temperatures above 80 degrees celsius .
a rocky slope is a slope which has a surface primarily composed of rock .
a marine environment and enviroment which is determined by a marine water body .
an environmental system determined by seawater .
the atmospheric boundary layer is the lowest layer of an atmosphere which is strongly influenced by its contact with a planetary surface with strong vertical mixing and in which physical quantities such as flow velocity ,  temperature ,  and moisture display rapid fluctuations  ( turbulence )  .
a planetary surface is a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of a planet comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
a layer in a water mass ,  itself composed primarily of water .
a gravelly slope is a slope which has a surface primarily composed of gravel .
a talus slope is a slope which has a surface layer composed of scree .
an altitudinal condition which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a monthly mean temperature is less than 10 degrees celsius and being located at altitudes above the tree line and below the snowline .
an altitudinal condition which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being located at an altitude between mid - altitude forests and the tree line .
an altitudinal condition is an environmental condition in which ranges of factors such as temperature ,  humidity ,  soil composition ,  solar irradiation ,  and tree density vary with ranges in altitude .
a layer which is determined by a form of vegetation .
a portion of acidic water is a portion of water with a ph less than 7 .
agricultural waste is waste produced as a result of various agricultural operations .
biological waste is waste containing mostly natural organic materials  ( remains of plants ,  animal excrement ,  biological sludge from waste - water treatment plants and so forth )  .
a  ( portion of )  plastic is an  ( portion of )  anthropogenic environmental material including any of numerous organic synthetic or processed materials which are primarily composed of thermoplastic or thermosetting polymers of high molecular weight .
a portion of respirable suspended particulate matter is a form of particulate matter composed primarily of solid particles each with a diameter of 10 micrometers or less .
snow is an environmental material which is primarily composed of flakes of crystalline water ice .
a site which has its extent determined by the presence or influence of one or more components of an environmental system or the processes occurring therein .
a portion of fine respirable suspended particulate matter is a form of particulate matter composed primarily of solid particles each with a diameter of 2 .5 micrometers or less .
a portion of fine respirable suspended particulate matter is a form of particulate matter composed primarily of solid particles each with a diameter of  100 nanometers or less .
a building part is a construction which is part of a building .
waterborne particulate matter is a form of particulate matter in which small portions of solid material are surrounded by water .
atmospheric carbon dioxide is an environmental material composed of carbon dioxide in its gaseous form present in an atmosphere .
a disposition which is realised by an environmental system or system parts thereof .
a masonry unit is a solid piece of material ,  usually with a regular shape ,  used as a component in the construction of buildings .
concrete is a composite material composed of an aggregate bonded together with a fluid cement which hardens over time .
asphaltic concrete is a concrete which uses refined asphalt as a cement .
asphalt also known as bitumen is a sticky ,  black ,  and highly viscous liquid or semi - solid form of petroleum .
refined asphalt is a sticky ,  black ,  and highly viscous liquid or semi - solid with a boiling point above 500 degrees celsius ,  obtained from the fractional distillation of crude oil .
masonry cement is a substance used in construction that has the disposition to set and harden and thus may be used to bind materials together .
a portion of brick material is a material derived from a brick which is composed of  kneaded clay - bearing soil ,  expanded clay aggregate ,  sand and lime ,  or concrete that has been fire - hardened or air - dried .
a brick is a masonry unit which is composed of kneaded clay - bearing soil ,  expanded clay aggregate ,  sand and lime ,  or concrete material ,  fire - hardened or air - dried .
plaster is a building material which has the disposition to harden when it reacts with water ,  liberating heat through crystallization .
lime plaster is a plaster which is primarily composed of calcium hydroxide and an inert filler  ( such as sand )  .
glass is an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  solid which is often transparent .
a building floor is a surface layer which is part of a building and used for walking .
a wooden building floor is a building floor that is composed primarily of wood .
a concrete building floor is a building floor that is composed primarily of concrete
a factory  ( previously manufactory )  or manufacturing plant is an industrial site ,  usually consisting of buildings and machinery ,  or more commonly a complex having several buildings ,  where workers manufacture goods or operate machines processing one product into another .
a layer that is part of the atmosphere .
a boundary layer is a layer of fluid in the immediate vicinity of a bounding surface where the effects of viscosity are significant enough to distort the surrounding non - viscous flow .
natural gas is a hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of methane ,  but commonly includes varying amounts of other higher alkanes and sometimes a usually lesser percentage of carbon dioxide ,  nitrogen ,  and / or hydrogen sulfide .
liquified petroleum gas or liquid petroleum gas  ( lpg or lp gas )  ,  also referred to as simply propane or butane ,  are flammable mixtures of hydrocarbon gases used as fuel in heating appliances ,  cooking equipment ,  and vehicles .
a gas that is primarily composed of hydrocarbon molecules .
liquefied natural gas  ( lng )  is natural gas  ( predominantly methane ,  ch4 )  that has been converted to liquid form for ease of storage or transport .
charcoal is a light ,  black residue ,  consisting of carbon and any remaining ash ,  obtained by removing water and other volatile constituents from animal and vegetation substances .
a lentic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  has very little to no directed flow .
a lotic water body is a water body in which the accumulated water ,  in its totality ,  is flowing .
hydrological condensation is a process in which atmospheric water vapour undergoes a phase transition from the gas phase to the liquid phase .
the long - term fluctuations in temperature ,  precipitation ,  wind ,  and all other aspects of the earth's climate .
acidification of an aquatic environment is a process whereby the ph of an aquatic environment ,  biome ,  or water body is lowered .
ocean acidification is a process during which the ph of a sea or ocean is lowered .
a volcanic eruption is a process during which lava ,  tephra  ( ash ,  lapilli ,  volcanic bombs and blocks )  ,  and assorted gases are expelled from a volcanic vent or fissure .
a landmass which is part of a planet .
outer space is a hard vacuum containing a low density of particles ,  predominantly a plasma of hydrogen and helium as well as electromagnetic radiation ,  magnetic fields ,  neutrinos ,  dust and cosmic rays that exists between celestial bodies .
a planetary crust is the outermost solid shell of a rocky planet or natural satellite ,  which is chemically distinct from the underlying mantle .
a planetary structural layer is laminar part of a terrestrial planet or other rocky body large enough to have differentiation by density .
a planetary mantle is a planetary layer which is an interior part of a terrestrial planet or other rocky body large enough to have differentiation by density .
a lithosphere is the outermost shell of a terrestrial - type planet or natural satellite that is defined by its rigid mechanical properties .
magma is a mixture of molten or semi - molten rock ,  volatiles ,  and solids that is found beneath the uppermost solid layer of a planetary body .
a settlement with a high density of buildings and inhabitants .
a role that is realized in some process wherein the bearer is discarded or not utilized further .
a geological fracture is any separation in a geologic formation ,  such as a joint or a fault that divides a mass of rock into two or more pieces .
a geological fault is a planar fracture or discontinuity in a volume of rock ,  across which there has been significant displacement as a result of rock mass movement .
an active fault is a fault that is likely to become the source of another earthquake sometime in the future .
contaminated air is air which has sufficient concentrations of environmental pollutants such that it may adversely affect a given ecosystem .
an earthquake is a process during which energy is released in an astronomical body's crust ,  causing the displacement of crustal parts and the generation of seismic waves .
an earthquake caused by the sudden release of energy accumulated in an astronomical body's crust ,  as the elastic strain placed on constituent rock masses causes them to fracture .
a lake which has concentrations of environmental contaminants high enough to harm the ecosystems associated with it .
a mass of water .
a coast is the area where land meets the sea ,  ocean ,  or lake .
a tsunami is a process during which a series of waves is generated in a water body ,  typically an ocean or large lake ,  by the displacement of a large volume of water .
mass wasting is the geomorphic process by which solid environmental material such as soil ,  sand ,  regolith ,  and / or rock move downslope typically as a mass ,  largely under the force of gravity ,  but frequently affected by water and water content as in submarine environments and mudslides .
a landslide is a process whereby a large mass of earth and rocks moves down a hill or a mountainside .
volcanic ash is an environmental material which consists of fragments of pulverized rock ,  minerals ,  and volcanic glass ,  created during volcanic eruptions and measuring less than 2 millimetres in diameter .
hydrological precipitation is a process during which any product of the condensation of atmospheric water vapour is pulled to the planetary surface by gravity .
soil degradation is a process which results in a change in soil health status resulting in a diminished capacity of the ecosystem in which the soil occurs to provide goods and services for its  beneficiaries .
coastal flooding is a process in which normally dry ,  low - lying land near a coast is flooded by sea water .
riverine flooding is a process in which the flow rate of river water exceeds the capacity of its channel ,  thus flooding neighbouring land .
flash flooding is a process in which low - lying land is inundated with water for a short period of time and are usually the result of precipitation or a breach in the container of a water body .
an unusual accumulation of water above the ground caused by high tide ,  heavy rain ,  melting snow or rapid runoff from paved areas .
a coastal flood is a flood which is formed as a result of large amounts of water from marine water bodies or large lakes being transported to usually dry land by displacement processes such as high winds or seismic activity .
a flash flood is a flood formed by the rapid flooding of geomorphic low - lying areas .
a storm surge is a coastal flood which is caused by low - pressure weather systems such as tropical cyclones and strong extratropical cyclones ,  the severity of which is affected by the shallowness and orientation of the water body relative to storm path ,  and the timing of tides .
a meteotsunami is a tsunami caused by atmospheric processes and differences in air pressure .
a storm surge process is a coastal flooding process which is caused by low pressure weather systems such as tropical cyclones and strong extratropical cyclones ,  the severity of which is affected by the shallowness and orientation of the water body relative to storm path ,  and the timing of tides .
areal flooding is a flooding process in which flat or low - lying areas become inundated with water due to water input exceeding infiltration ,  evaporation ,  or run off .
urban flooding is a flooding process in which land or property in a built environment ,  particularly in more densely populated areas ,  is inundated due to the rate of water input exceeding that of water drainage provided by the environment's drainage systems .
condensation is a process during which a gas undergoes a phase transition into a liquid .
an environmental system which can sustain and allow the growth of an ecological population .
a carbon emission process is any environmental process which outputs a carbon - bearing gas .
a process in which natural ecosystems present over an expanse of land are removed and replaced with anthropogenic ecosystems .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily composed of bedrock ,  desert pavement ,  scarp rock ,  talus ,  material exposed by slides ,  volcanic material ,  glacial debris ,  sand ,  material exposed during strip mining ,  gravel ,  and other accumulations of earthen material in contact with an atmospheric column extending from the planetary boundary layer to the planet's exosphere with little to no physical obstruction .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of gaseous or aerosolised material held in shape by one or more environmental processes .
a cloud is a visible mass of aerosolised liquid droplets or frozen crystals suspended in an atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body .
a carbon emission process is any environmental process which releases carbon dioxide gas into the atmosphere .
an abiotic mesoscopic physical object which is primarily composed of plastic .
a planned process during which a portion of environmental material is removed from a material entity .
a process whereby a large volume of gas moves due to a disequilibrium of physical forces .
a material entity which is composed of one or more chemical entities and has neither independent shape nor volume but tends to expand indefinitely .
a material entity which is composed of a volume of unbound positive and negative particles in roughly equal numbers ,  conducts electricity ,  and possesses internal magnetic fields .
an object which is naturally occuring ,  bound together by gravitational or electromagnetic forces ,  and surrounded by space .
a planet is an astronomical body orbiting a star or stellar remnant that is massive enough to be rounded by its own gravity ,  is not massive enough to cause thermonuclear fusion ,  and has cleared its neighbouring region of planetesimals .
an astronomical object which is composed primarily of luminous plasma held in a spherical form by gravitational forces .
an object which is composed of one or more gravitationally bound structures that are associated with a position in space .
a material part of an astronomical body .
an environmental material which is in a solid state .
an environmental material which is in a liquid state .
a biosphere is a part of an astronomical body which includes ,  as parts ,  all the living entities within the gravitational sphere of influence of that body ,  as well as the non - living and dead entities with which they interact .
a cryosphere is that part of a planet which is primarily composed of water is in solid form .
an astronomical body part which is composed of the combined mass of water found on ,  under ,  and over the surface of a planet .
an astronomical body part which is composed of soil ,  subject to soil formation processes ,  and found on the surface of a lithosphere .
air which has increased levels of water vapour .
air which has a partial pressure of water vapour equal or near equal to its equilibrium vapor pressure at a given temperature .
a hydrological precipitation process in which atmospheric water vapour condenses to form droplets of liquid water massive enough to fall to a planetary surface due to the planet's gravity .
a droplet is a small column of liquid ,  bounded completely or almost completely by free surfaces which maintains its shape due to the surface tension of the liquid .
a droplet formed by condensation of vapour in an atmosphere and which is sufficiently massive to overcome atmospheric resistance and fall to a planetary surface due to gravity .
a droplet of water
a droplet which is spherical in shape and suspended in an atmosphere ,  being of too small a mass to be pulled to a planetary surface by gravity .
a cloud droplet composed primarily of water .
combustion or burning is a high - temperature exothermic redox chemical reaction between a fuel and an oxidant that produces oxidized ,  often gaseous products ,  in a mixture termed as smoke .
a chemical decomposition  ( the separation of a single chemical compound into its two or more elemental parts or to simpler compounds )  caused by heat .
a thermolysis process in which organic material is decomposed in the absence of oxygen .
a fog which is intermixed with smoke or other combustion products and their derivatives .
a visible mass of cloud water droplets or ice crystals suspended in the air at or near a planetary surface .
a solid material whose constituents ,  such as atoms ,  molecules or ions ,  are arranged in a highly ordered microscopic structure ,  forming a crystal lattice that extends in all directions .
a crystal which is primarily composed of water ice .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by a shrubs ,  young trees ,  or stunted trees . .
a precipitation process is a process in which a portion of some substance segregates from a material in which that substance or its precursors were dissolved or suspended in and settles due to a force such as gravity or centrifugal force .
a storm is an environmental process in which an environmental system and the processes it participates in are strongly perturbed by external forcings .
an atmospheric storm is a process in which a portion of an astronomical body's atmosphere is strongly perturbed from its prevaling weather .
an atmospheric storm which occurs in cumulonimbus clouds and during which lightning and thunder occur .
an atmospheric storm during which freezing rain falls and accumulates as ice on exposed surfaces .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by cultivated or anthropically maintained vegetation planted for recreation ,  erosion control ,  or aesthetic purposes interspersed by constructed or manufactured objects and materials .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by sedges or forbs ,  possibly interpersed with grasses or grass - like plants .
an area of a planet's surface which is primarily covered by gramanoid or herbaceous vegetation and which is not subject to intensive management by humans .
a hydrological process in which irregular aggregates of snow fall to a planetary surface .
rainfall which occurs when the temperature of a planetary surface and its surrounding atmosphere are below the freezing point of water ,  resulting in supercooled raindrops which freeze upon impact with solid surfaces .
a process during which a sudden flow of electricity occurs ,  often accompanied by a visible release of photons ,  between two electrically charged objects due to contact ,  an electrical short ,  or dielectric breakdown .
a sudden electrostatic discharge which occurs during an electrical storm as differentially charged atmospheric entities equalise their charge .
regions of a planet which are not exposed to the planet's atmosphere or space ,  often comprising parts of one or more planetary structural layers .
a piece of plastic which has a diameter less than five millimetres .
a microplastic particle which is derived from the breakdown of larger plastic debris .
an environmental system in which minimal to no anthropisation has occurred and non - human agents are the primary determinants of the system's dynamics and composition .
a process during which a natural environmental system is altered by human action .
a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals .
a construction which is designed to hold water in which humans may swim or perform other leisure activities .
a constructed swimming pool which is owned by a governmental or state entity .
a process whereby a volume of liquid moves due to a disequilibrium of physical forces .
a process during which a volume of water is transported due to a disequilibria in physical forces .
a part of an astronomical body which includes ,  as parts ,  all the entities which have been constructed or manufactured by humans or their technology and which are within the gravitational sphere of influence of that body .
a planned process during which raw or recycled materials are transformed into products for use or sale using labour and machines ,  tools ,  chemical and biological processing ,  or formulation .
a manufacturing process which occurs on a planet .
an process during which natural or manufactured materials and products are processed and arranged by humans or their technology into structures .
an environmental system which is determined by materials bearing roughly homogeneous qualities .
an environmental system within which an environmental material strongly influences the system's composition and properties .
an environmental system which is determined by a living organism .
an environmental system determined by a green plant .
an environmental system determined by an animal .
underground water which is located in pore spaces found in rock or unconsolidated deposits such as soil ,  clay ,  or gravel .
a meteor is any matter -  or energy - based entity which is located in the atmosphere of an astronomical body .
a meteor which is primarily composed of water .
a meteor which is primarily composed of rock .
a lake which has formed as the result of processes that are not or are only minimally driven by human activity .
a process during which energy is emitted or transmitted in the form of waves or particles through space or a material medium .
a radiation process during which energy is transmitted or emitted by means of fast - moving subatomic particles .
a particle radiation process during which subatomic particles move in the same direction .
a radiation process during which waves  ( or their quanta ,  photons )  of the electromagnetic field propagate  ( radiate )  through space carrying electromagnetic energy .
a radiation process during which mechanical waves generated by oscillations radiate through an environmental material .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by feces .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a bodily secretion of a metazoan .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a digestive tract .
an environment which is determined by materials which bear significant concentrations of salts .
an environmental system determined by a fungal structure .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by soil .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by the subsurface zone of a planet .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by those parts of a planetary subsurface zone which are not saline .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by sediment .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by a saline aerosol .
an environmental system which has its properties and dynamics determined by an aerosol with a low concentration of dissolved solutes .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead animal ,  or a whole small animal .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead plant ,  or a whole small plant .
an environmental system determined by part of a living or dead fungus .
an astronomical body which is composed of rocky or metallic materials and is considerably smaller than asteroids .
a material which is composed primarily of one or more pure metals and which shows their properties .
environmental variability which inheres in an astronomical body part or in outer space .
a condition which inheres in an environmental system by virtue of that system undergoing variation in its composition ,  the distribution of the qualities its components bear ,  and / or in the processes which occur within it and which it participates in .
a process during which microscopic solid or liquid objects are formed .
an aerosol formation process which occurs in an atmosphere .
a process during which an aerosol ,  consisting of solid particulates suspended in a gas ,  is formed in an atmosphere .
a process during which an aerosol ,  consisting of droplets of liquid suspended in gas ,  is formed in an atmosphere .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of liquid droplets .
an aerosol which has non - gaseous parts that are primarily composed of solid particles .
a process during which microscopic solid particulates are formed from gaseous materials in an atmosphere .
a process during which microscopic liquid droplets are formed from gaseous materials in an atmosphere .
a process during which pieces of a planetary crust and uppermost mantle move .
a part of a lithosphere which is separated by other such parts by geographic faults or similar geomorphological discontinuities .
a geomorphological feature which is formed where two or more tectonic plates move towards ,  away from ,  or along one another ,  resulting in deformation of the lithosphere .
an environmental system which includes both living and non - living components .
a product which is composed primarily of animal manure that has been heat treated and packaged as a product for commercial or consumer use .
a planet which is primarily composed of hydrogen and helium .
an ice is an environmental material which is either frozen or which is maintained in a solid state by gravitational forces or pressure .
a terrestrial planet which has a surface dominated by hot deserts .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by water ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of water .
a planet which has a surface layer that nearly completely or completely covered by ice ,  and which has a substantial portion of its mass composed of ice .
a gas planet which has an atmosphere composed primarily of helium .
a material which is composed primarily of chemical elements and compounds with relatively low boiling points ,  equilibrium condensation temperatures below 1300 kelvin ,  and which are part of the crust or atmosphere of a moon or planet .
an astrogeological volatile which is composed primarily of chemical compounds with boiling points around those of hydrogen and helium .
a quality which inheres in a astronomical body or astronomical body part by virtue of the variation in its material composition ,  participation in geological processes ,  and the variation in is land -  and hydroforms .
an ecosystem which has been causally isolated from a larger ecosystem within which it was previously embedded ,  such that the direct exchange of materials ,  resources ,  and energy between these systems is severely or entirely curtailed .
a process during which one or more parts of an ecosystem become causally isolated such that the direct flow or exchange of materials ,  resources ,  and energy between a given fragment and the remainder of the original system is severely curtailed or entirely halted .
a process during which an ecosystem ,  its parts ,  or the processes it participates in are modified by human intervention to accomplish an objective .
a process during which an ecosystem fragment loses its system integrity ,  with many of its resident ecological populations 1 )  losing their habitats ,  2 )  undergoing a loss of functional and phylogenetic diversity ,  and 3 )  undergoing a subsequent genetic destabilisation through inbreeding .
an environment which has its properties and composition largely determined by the presence of a metazoan which lacks a vetebral column and which has a habitat that is found in an aquatic environmental system .
soil which has increased levels of molecules or ions capable of donating a hydron  ( proton or hydrogen ion )  to other chemical entities ,  or ,  alternatively ,  capable of forming covalent bonds with other chemicals via the acceptance of an electron pair ,  resulting in a bulk ph measurement of less than 7 .
volcanic ash which has increased levels of molecules or ions capable of donating a hydron  ( proton or hydrogen ion )  to other chemical entities ,  or ,  alternatively ,  capable of forming covalent bonds with other chemicals via the acceptance of an electron pair ,  resulting in a bulk ph measurement of less than 7 .
the surface layer of a volume of water .
the surface layer of a mass of sediment .
an environmental disposition which inheres in an entity that intercepts ,  attenuates ,  or blocks radiation .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a land mass or the atmosphere or space adjacent to it .
a terrestrial zone which is bounded by constructed ,  manufactured ,  or other anthropogenic material entities .
an environmental zone which is bounded by material parts of a marine environment .
a process during which sediments compact under pressure ,  expel connate fluids ,  and gradually become solid sedimentary rock .
an ecosystem in which grasses  ( graminae )  are the dominant form of vegetation and determine the system's structure and dynamics .
a terrestrial ecosystem which is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support ,  and that under normal circumstances does support ,  a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions .
a planned process during which an environmental system is modified to mitigate or nullify the impacts of flooding .
an electromagnetic radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star at wavelengths and frequencies which travel exclusively in a line - of - sight fashion and which may produce molecular rotation and torsion on contact with matter .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star at wavelengths ranging from millimetre to kilometer scales .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star when molecules change their rotational - vibrational movements ,  usually at wavelengths between 760 nm and 1 mm .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star at wavelengths between 380 nm and 760 nm .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star at wavelengths between 10 nm and 400 nm .
a stellar radiation process during which penetrating electromagnetic radiation is emitted by high - energy electrons as they fall into a lower state of energy .
a stellar radiation process during which penetrating electromagnetic radiation is emitted from the radioactive decay  ( gamma decay )  of atomic nuclei .
a stellar radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a star with sufficient energy to disrupt molecular bonds or alter the electron number of atoms .
a process during which wood is processed into beams or planks .
a natural environment which is located on a land mass .
a natural environment which is within a water body .
a vegetation layer which is formed by a collection of individual plant crowns ,  themselves constituting part of the aboveground portion of a plant community .
an ecosystem which is determined by communities of plants with a tree growth form and in which members of those communities form continuous or discontinuous regions of canopy cover .
a surface layer through which liquids or gases cannot pass .
a construction which comprises a durable surface layer overlying a solid surface intended to sustain vehicular or foot traffic .
a layer which is primarily composed of some liquid material .
a layer which is primarily composed of some solid material ,  allowing for non - solid parts such as interstitial pockets of gas or liquid .
a solid layer which is primarily composed of some water - based ice .
a constructed pavement which is built on the side of a road and intended for foot traffic .
dust which is composed primarily of slicon dioxide .
dust which is primarily composed of aluminium particles .
dust which is primarily composed of barium particles .
dust which is primarily composed of hydrated magnesium silicate  ( talc )  particles .
dust which is primarily composed of slate particles .
dust which is primarily composed of kaolinite particles .
a vegetated area which has not been cleared or is sparsely settled ,  usually scrub - covered or forested
an atmospheric storm which is generated by the heating and convection of moist and unstable air masses .
a an atmospheric storm which originates over tropical or subtropical waters and possesses a warm - core ,  non - frontal synoptic - scale cyclone with a low pressure centre ,  spiral rain bands and strong winds .
an environmental zone which is part of an atmosphere .
a vegetated area is a geographic feature which has ground cover dominated by plant communities .
an environment which is determined by a bone element .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid water held in shape or sustained by an environmental process .
a liquid surface layer which is in contact with air .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of some liquid .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of solid environmental material .
a body of water which is primarily composed of saline water .
a body of water which is primarily composed of freshwater ,  with low solute content .
a material transport process during which a volume of material is displaced due to a disequilibrium in physical forces and during which 1 )  the qualities that inhere in that volume and 2 )  the processes that are unfolding within it are largely unchanged .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one location on the surface of an astronomical body ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
a landform which has been rendered barren or partially barren by environmental extremes ,  especially by low rainfall .
an aerosol formation event  which occurs in an atmosphere .
a system which consists of an atmosphere ,  hydrosphere ,  cryosphere ,  land surface ,  and  biosphere ,  forced or influenced by external processes .
a process during which particles suspended in a gaseous medium are formed .
a material transport process during which solid or liquid particles are directly introduced into a volume of gas .
an aerosol formation process during which the rate of particle formation exceeds that which is normally present in the site of its occurrence .
a primary aerosol formation process during which dust particles are suspended in a gaseous medium .
a process during which dust is aerosolised in an atmosphere .
an aersolised mass of dust ,  smoke ,  or other dry particulates which scatters visible light thus obsscuring visibility through an atmosphere .
a cloud which
a cloud which is formed by condensation events triggered by some anthropogenic processes or the outputs thereof ,  such as aircraft contrails or emissions from chimneys .
a cloud which 1 )  is heavy and dense ,  2 )  has a considerable vertical extent ,  3 )  has the form of a mountain or one or more huge towers ,  3 )   is usually smooth ,  fibrous or striated ,  and nearly always flattened across part of its upper portion ,  which often spreads out in the shape of an anvil or vast plume ,  4 )   has a very dark base which may be merged with low ragged clouds which frequently form undernead this could ,  and 5 )  is frequenly associated with precipitation ,  sometimes in the form of virga .
a cloud which is primarily composed of water - based aerosols .
an anthropisation process during which terrestrial environments  -  natural or anthropised  -  or parts thereof are altered to facilitate human activities such as agriculture ,  settlement ,  or commerce .
an anthropogenic environmental process which includes all human activities undertaken in a natural ,  semi - natural ,  or anthropised environment .
a land use process during which materials of economic value are extracted from a planet ,  usually from an orebody ,  lode ,  vein ,  seam ,  reef or placer deposit .
a process during which an ecosystem  -  natural or anthropised  -  is changed by the actions of humans .
a planned process during which humans access and obtain resources ,  benefits ,  or services from a natural or anthropised ecosystem .
a planned environmental usage process during which a non - renewable resource such as petroleum ,  natural gas ,  or water is extracted from an ecosystem .
a mining process which occurs in a marine ecosystem .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment facilitates the movement of materials and material objects  ( persons or goods )  from place to place ,  typically with the assistance of a vehicle .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment supports manufacturing facilities producing commodities that are sold with the expectation of recovering the total cost of production .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid or gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a tornado is an aeroform consisting of at least one rapidly rotating column of air that is in contact with both the surface of an astronomical body and pendant from within or beneath a cumulonimbus or cumulus cloud .
a surface layer where the solid or liquid material of an astronomical body comes into contact with an atmosphere or outer space .
a tornado which a )  is not associated with a mesocyclone and is thus relatively weak and short - lived ,  b )  is centred on a small ,  smooth condensation funnel which often does not reach the planetary surface ,  and c )  forms a distinctively laminar cloud of dust when it makes contact with the land .
a tornado which connects a cumulus or cumulonimbus cloud to a body of water ,  often transporting water from that water body along the spiraling winds constituting  its vortex .
an electromagnetic radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted from a manufactured product .
a material transformation process during which a material's viscosity increase either through a reduction in temperature ,  through chemical reactions ,  or other physical effects .
land which is below the freezing point of water .
soil which is below the freezing point of water .
a material congelation process during which a liquid turns into a solid when its temperature is lowered below its melting point .
a freezing process during which liquid water is transformed into water ice .
a water surface that is part of a water body .
an aggregate of raindrops falling to a planetary surface during a precipitation process .
an ecoregion which is located on a landmass .
a surface layer of a water body which is part of an ocean or sea .
a layer which is part of a cryosphere .
permafrost which contains inclusions of water - based ice .
a material accumulation process during which the mass of snow on a surface increases .
a material accumulation process during which ice forms in an environmental material or an existing accumulation of ice increases in mass .
a material accumulation process during which a accumulation of snow and ice forms or increases in mass .
a object which is composed primarily of water - based snow and ice .
a process during which microscopic solid particulates are formed from liquid materials in an atmosphere .
that part of an atmosphere which is composed of gaseous material .
a solid material which does not have a regularly organised internal structure .
an aerosol that is suspended in an atmosphere .
a material transformation process during which solid or liquid particles form and are suspended in a mass of air ,  thus creating an aerosol .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of some liquid or gas .
a surface layer which separates two portions of fluid with respect to either 1 )  a discontinuity of some fluid property or 2 )  some derivative of one of these properties in a direction normal to the interface .
a layer which is composed primarily of some fluid .
a fluid interface which separates two fluid masses with differing properties .
a fluid front which is composed primarily of gaseous material and separates at least two gaseous masses .
a gaseous front which separates two masses of air with different densities and is a principal cause of meteorological phenomena .
an object which is composed of a continuous mass of air .
a fluid surface layer which is composed primarily of some gaseous material .
a layer which separates two portions of environmental material which possess 1 )  differing compositions ,  2 )  a discontinuity of some property ,  or 3 )  some derivative of some property in a direction normal to the interface .
an object which is composed primarily of an environmental material
an object which is composed primarily of a solid environmental material
an object which is composed primarily of a fluid .
an object which is composed primarily of a gas .
an object which is composed primarily of a liquid .
an mass of environmental materials which has appreciable quantities of several individual materials ,  such that the removal of one would convert the mass into a different entity .
a weather front which separates air masses of tropical and polar origin .
a process during which the ability of a material entity to maintain its internal organisation fails ,  resulting in deformation and a breakdown of that organisation .
an environmental zone which includes those regions of an astronomical body which are not exposed to its atmosphere or space .
an ecosystem in which the composition ,  structure ,  and function of resident ecological assemblages are primarily determined by a desert .
a solid astronomical body part which is part of the landmass of that body .
a large continuous area of land ,  either surrounded by sea or contiguous with another landmass .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous medium bearing liquid ,  gaseous ,  and solid material in varying quantities .
a surface layer of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of solid material and is not covered by oceans or other bodies of water .
an environmental process either driven by or primarily impacting the parts or emergent properties of an ecosystem .
a material entity which has been assembled through the intentional ,  instinctual ,  or deliberately programmed efforts of an organism or machine .
an object which is formed as a result of one or more biological processes and is composed primarily of organic material .
a biome which is subject to alpine altitudinal conditions .
a biome which is subject to montane altitudinal conditions .
a biome which is subject to arid environmental conditions .
a process during which one entity loses energy to another entity .
a material accumulation process during which the volume of liquid entity increases .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in air that is part of an atmosphere .
an organic material which is primarily composed of some natural bodily fluid or secretion such as blood ,  semen ,  saliva ,  blood plasma ,  intracellular and interstitial fluids .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of blood ,  a bodily fluid composed of blood plasma and blood cells suspended within the plasma that circulates around the organism's body .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of amniotic fluid ,  a bodily fluid consisting of watery liquid surrounding and cushioning a growing fetus within the amnion .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of excreta ,  bodily fluids consisting of matter which contains the waste products of biological processes ,  including urine or feces ,  discharged from an organism's body .
a bodily fluid material which is composed primarily of bile ,  a bodily fluid consisting of a bitter ,  yellow or green alkaline fluid secreted by hepatocytes from the liver of most vertebrates .
an environmental material that is the non - aqueous ,  non - gaseous residues that remain after something is burned .
a combustible black or brownish - black sedimentary rock usually occurring in rock strata in layers or veins called coal beds or coal seams .
a type of rock that contains sufficient minerals with important elements including metals that can be economically extracted from the rock .
dust which is derived from coal .
dust which is derived from mineral material .
dust which is composed of fibrous material .
dust which is composed primarily of some metallic material .
dust which is derived from clay material .
dust that comes from grain and all the other substances associated with its cultivation & harvesting .
a gas ,  smoke ,  or vapor that smells strongly or is dangerous to inhale .
respirable vapor of vanadium .
the residue powder that is derived from the combustion of wood .
ash that is produced from the burning of coal .
a liquid or a gas .
a process in which includes the components of an environmental system as participants .
a type of land degradation in which terrestrial ecosystem becomes increasingly dry ,  typically losing its bodies of water as well as vegetation and wildlife .
a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland and / or tidal waters ,  and / or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source .
a process which occurs within an atmosphere .
a process by which thermal radiation from a planetary surface is absorbed by atmospheric greenhouse gases ,  and is re - radiated in all directions .
a process which diminishes the functioning of an ecosystem located on land .
an ecosystem process during which the flora and fauna belonging to a forest are removed or destroyed .
a process during which the populations in a community of algae in a marine or freshwater ecosystem undergo rapid growth ,  resulting in high concentrations of algal cells that occur only periodically and briefly in that ecosystem ,  relative to their concentrations through the majority of the planetary orbital period .
a process during which humans apply technology to alter the magnitude ,  duration ,  rate ,  or impact of an environmental process .
an environmental process which is driven by the action of humans .
an action of exogenic processes  ( such as water flow or wind )  which remove environmental material from one part of a planet's crust ,  transporting it to another location where it is deposited .
an environmental process which has water  -  in any of its states  -  as a participant .
an environmental system process that results in the introduction of contaminants into an environment .
a pollution process during which particulates or other contaminants are released into a portion of air .
a pollution process during which contaminants are released into soil .
a pollution process during which contaminants are released into water .
a pollution process during which plastic contaminants are released into an environmental material .
a planned process during which the amount of pollutants released into an environmental system is regulated .
a pollution process that results in increased levels of pollutants in an urban environment .
a process during which the mass of one or more materials ,  present within a given site ,  increases .
a process during which material is displaced from its original location and transported either to a new location or back to the original location .
a depression which is part of a planetary crust ,  is of geographic scale ,  and is partially or completely enclosed .
a process during which a mass composed of one or more environmental materials ,  present within a given site ,  decreases .
sediment which has been transported through the marine water column ,  settling on the seafloor .
a material accumulation process during which solid particles are pulled through a water body by gravitation or centrifugal force and which ends when they settle on a solid surface .
a process during which a portion of some environmental material is converted into a different material or a collection of materials .
permafrost which contains pockets of trapped methane gas .
a material transport process during which a portion of gaseous environmental material is transported into the atmosphere .
a gas emission process during which a portion of hydrocarbon gas is transported into the atmosphere .
a hydrocarbon gas emission process during which a portion of methane gas is transported into the atmosphere .
a geographic feature which is primarily composed of a continuous mass of snow and / or ice .
a mass of snow .
the concentration of nitrate and nitrite when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in soil .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in air .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in freshwater .
the concentration of carbon dioxide when measured in seawater .
a surface layer which is composed primarily of soil .
a material accumulation process during which atmospheric carbon dioxide is captured and stored .
an environment that is determined by a mouth .
the amount of a carbon atom when measured in environmental material .
the amount of a carbon atom when measured in soil .
the amount of a carbon atom when measured in water .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in environmental material .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in soil .
the concentration of a carbon atom when measured in water .
the amount of a nitrogen atom when measured in environmental material .
the amount of a nitrogen atom when measured in soil .
the amount of a nitrogen atom when measured in water .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in environmental material .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in soil .
the concentration of a nitrogen atom when measured in water .
the concentration of a chloride when measured in water .
the temperature of some environmental material .
the temperature of some air .
the quality of a environmental system process .
the porosity of some soil .
the concentration of a ammonium when measured in soil .
the concentration of a nitrate when measured in soil .
the composition of some soil .
the structure of some soil .
the acidity of some soil .
the pressure of some air .
the temperature of some soil .
the wetness of some soil .
the temperature of some water .
the humidity of some soil .
the composition of some water .
the concentration of a nitrate when measured in groundwater .
obsolete the concentration of a oxygen when measured in water .
a hydrological precipitation process with a reduced rate relative to some historical average ,  typically resulting in ecosystemic perturbations .
a manufactured product that is some mixture of chemicals created through some chemical engineering process
the portion of chemical products obtained by the distillation of a tar that remains heavier than water ,  notably useful for its anti - septic and preservative properties
a wastewater treatment plant that treates industrial wastewater .
a wastewater treatment plant that treats agriculatural wastewater .
a feature that arises from a rapid increase or accumulation in the population of algae  ( typically microscopic )  in an aquatic system .
an algal bloom that is located in freshwater .
the generation of energy for use by humans
a disposition which is realized during the execution of work ,  the emission of heat ,  or the possession of mass .
energy possessed by an object because of its position relative to other objects ,  stresses within itself ,  its electric charge ,  or other factors .
energy that it realized through motion .
potential energy that binds nucleons to form the atomic nucleus  ( and nuclear reactions )  .
kinetic and potential energy in an elastic material due to a propagated deformational wave .
potential energy stored in the fields of propagated by electromagnetic radiation ,  including light .
kinetic energy which is realized through the microscopic motion of particles ,  a form of disordered mechanical energy .
thermal energy which propagates through a solid  ( typically rocky )  astronomical body .
a power station which burns a fossil fuel such as coal ,  natural gas ,  or petroleum to produce electricity .
an environment which is determined by an anatomical entity .
an environmental system determined by an intestine .
an environment determined by an area or zone of skin tissue .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted at wavelengths and frequencies which travel exclusively in a line - of - sight fashion and which may produce molecular rotation and torsion on contact with matter .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted at wavelengths ranging from millimetre to kilometer scales .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted when molecules change their rotational - vibrational movements ,  usually at wavelengths between 760 nm and 1 mm .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted at wavelengths between 380 nm and 760 nm .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted at wavelengths between 10 nm and 400 nm .
a radiation process during which penetrating electromagnetic radiation is emitted by high - energy electrons as they fall into a lower state of energy .
a radiation process during which penetrating electromagnetic radiation is emitted from the radioactive decay  ( gamma decay )  of atomic nuclei .
a radiation process during which electromagnetic waves or their quanta are emitted with sufficient energy to disrupt molecular bonds or alter the electron number of atoms .
the concentration of adenosine 5 - triphosphate when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of ammonium when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of beta - carotene when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of carotene when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of dioxygen when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of hydrogen peroxide when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of hydrogen sulfide when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of methane when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of nitrate when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of nitrite when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of nitrous oxide when measured in liquid water .
the concentration of phosphate when measured in liquid water .
the acidity of some water .
the pressure of some water .
the concentration of bromine when measured in water ice .
the concentration of cobalt when measured in water ice .
the concentration of lithium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of methanesulfonic acid when measured in water ice .
the concentration of molybdenum when measured in water ice .
the concentration of silver when measured in water ice .
the concentration of thallium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of tin when measured in water ice .
the concentration of titanium when measured in water ice .
the concentration of bromine when measured in snow .
the concentration of cobalt when measured in snow .
the concentration of lithium when measured in snow .
the concentration of methanesulfonic acid when measured in snow .
the concentration of molybdenum when measured in snow .
the concentration of silver when measured in snow .
the concentration of thallium when measured in snow .
the concentration of tin when measured in snow .
the concentration of titanium when measured in snow .
the concentration of urea when measured in liquid water .
an anatomical structure that forms all or part of a fungus .
a substance ,  usually composed primarily of carbohydrates ,  fats ,  water and / or proteins ,  that can be eaten or drunk by an animal or human being for nutrition or pleasure .
this food product type includes food products which are derived from or produced by a plant .
a food preserved by soaking and storing it in vinegar or brine .
a food product which is derived from or produced by an animal that has a vertibrae .
a relish ,  sauce ,  or seasoning  added to food to impart a particular flavour or to complement the dish .
a food product derived from or produced by a plant .
food product that is 1 )  ready or nearly ready for consumption ;  2 )  usually a composite of several foods or ingredients that often belong to distinct product types ;  3 )  usually formulated ,  mixed and partially or fully cooked .
any plant food product which ,  typically ,  is constituted by intact parts from one or more annual plants cultivated as field and garden crops in the open and under glass ,  and used almost exclusively for food .
an alcoholic drink  ( or alcoholic beverage )  is a drink that contains ethanol ,  a type of alcohol produced by fermentation of grains ,  fruits ,  or other sources of sugar .
a meal type is the name of an eating occasion that may have location ,  food type ,  or other customary contextual features .
a process involving the physical transformation of a food source or food product into some derived organic material or food product
invertebrates are animals that neither possess nor develop a vertebral column  ( commonly known as a backbone or spine )  ,  derived from the notochord .
the food product by quality class provides descriptors for describing food visually or via other senses ,  which is useful for tasks like food inspection where little prior knowledge of how the food came to be is available .
a multicellular eukaryotic heterotrophic organism within the kingdom animalia .
a food product not including meat and animal tissue products  ( such as gelatin or animal - derived rennet )  .
a liquid prepared for consumption ,  or a product that can be combined with water or milk to make one .
a commercial product which is monosaccharide fructose ,  dried ,  ground ,  and of high purity .
seasoned product that contains multiple ingredients and that is used in limited amounts to accompany other foods ;  excludes flavors ,  spices and herbs .
a substance having greater than 2% of the caloric value of sucrose per equivalent unit of sweetening capacity .
product that imparts or helps to impart a taste or aroma in food  ( 21 cfr .170 .3 ( n )  ( 26 )  .
vegetables in all forms except where a use - related product type descriptior  ( such as *prepared food product* or *snack food* )  takes precedence .
food product that is 1 )  ready or nearly ready for consumption ;  2 )  usually a composite of several foods or ingredients that often belong to distinct product types ;  3 )  usually formulated ,  mixed and partially or fully cooked .
food product that is usually pungent ,  tart ,  salty ,  or spicy and is used to enhance the flavors of other foods ;  includes catsup ,  relish ,  prepared mustard ,  prepared horseradish ,  and condiment sauces .
products of the flesh of animals .
alcoholic or nonalcoholic beverage ;  excludes milk and milk - based beverages ,  fruit juices and fruit juice drinks ,  and vegetable juices .
a product added to a food item to achieve some degree of sweet taste ;  it may be nutritive or nonnutritive .
fruits and vegetables in all forms .
the liquid extracted or expressed from mature vegetables with or without optional ingredients such as seasoning or salt .
food group having common consumption ,  functional or manufacturing characteristics ,  e .g .
a food product type is a class of food products that is differentiated by its food composition ,  processing and / or consumption characteristics .
food and drugs ,  title 21 ,  code of federal regulations .
mammals  ( from latin mamma  \ "breast \ " )  are vertebrate animals constituting the class mammalia ,  and characterized by the presence of mammary glands which in females produce milk for feeding  ( nursing )  their young ,  a neocortex  ( a region of the brain )  ,  fur or hair ,  and three middle ear bones .
a vertebrate animal is any species of organism within the subphylum vertebrata  ( chordates with backbones )  .
a multicellular eukaryote organism of the kingdom plantae .
a food source is a plant or animal from which a food product or  component is derived .
this section list vitamins and mineral substances which may be used in the manufacture of food supplements . \ ndirective 2002 / 46 / ec of the european parliament and of the council of 10 june 2002 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to food supplements  [ http: /  / eur - lex .europa .eu / lexuriserv / lexuriserv .do?uri=oj:l:2002:183:0051:0057:en:pdf ]  .
edible flesh of any type of animal ,  including poultry and seafood .
a broad term that includes the nutritive sweeteners dextrose ,  fructose ,  galactose ,  lactose ,  maltose and sucrose ,  which are simple carbohydrates with molecules composed of one or two saccharide units .
anatomical part of the plant or animal from which the food product or its major ingredient is derived .
bone ,  feathers ,  shell ,  skin or trim fat .
includes carcass meat ,  organ meat ,  and nonmeat parts of animals ,  as well as the whole animal .
extract ,  concentrate or isolate high in sugar ,  oligosaccharide or polysaccharide .
anatomical part of an animal ;  includes eggs and milk that ,  although separated from the animal ,  are produced as integral parts and are affected by the animal's food intake and metabolism .
bone  ( endoskeleton )  or shell  ( exoskeleton )  of animals ,  or any part thereof .
anatomical part of a plant ,  such as fruit ,  seed ,  pod ,  leaf ,  stem or flower as well as the whole plant .
carcass meat from any type of animal including poultry and seafood .
edible organ meat ,  including blood and bone marrow .
a physical - chemical component separated from the food source or its parts by extraction ,  centrifugation ,  filtration ,  heat processing ,  expressing or a similar process .
meat from organs that do not belong to the cardiovascular ,  digestive or urogenital system .
a liquid that flows very easily at room temperature .
a state of matter between a solid and a gas ,  in which a substance has the capacity to flow and conforms to the shape of the container .
used to specifically characterize a food product based on the treatment or processes applied to the product or any indexed ingredient .
modified by microbial or enzymatic action resulting in molecular changes in any food component .
the methods contributing to the prevention or retardation of microbial ,  enzymatic or oxidative spoilage and thus to the extension of shelf life .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
obsolete .the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of animals  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli ,  via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
receiving a signal and transmitting it in the cell to initiate a change in cell activity .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
the activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ go:0050795 ] 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a compound molecular function in which an effector function is controlled by one or more regulatory components .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling receptor activity .
an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a clinically prescribed procedure ,  therapy ,  intervention ,  or recommendation .
all manners of treatment ,  be they pharmaceuticals ,  invasive procedures ,  etc .
a diagnostic or treatment procedure performed by manual and / or instrumental means ,  often involving an incision and the removal or replacement of a diseased organ or tissue ;  of or relating to or involving or used in surgery or requiring or amenable to treatment by surgery .
a type of treatment that uses substances derived from or made by living organisms to treat disease ;  this includes both naturally occurring and synthetic products .
an approach that improves the quality of life of patients and their families facing the problems associated with life - threatening illness ,  through the prevention and relief of suffering by means of early identification and impeccable assessment and treatment of pain and other problems ,  physical ,  psychosocial ,  and spiritual .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
use of a drug to treat or prevent bacterial infections .
use of a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
transference of a tissue or organ within an individual ,  between individuals of the same species ,  or between individuals of different species .
the surgical transfer of a healthy liver to a patient .
treatment with a drug used in the treatment of parkinson's disease .
use of a substance used to treat or prevent parasitic infections .
a therapy capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
treatment with a mood - stimulating drugs used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions .
use of a substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors .
treatment with a drug that alleviate anxiety ,  tension ,  and anxiety disorders ,  promote sedation ,  and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions .
substance that may reduce inflammation ,  stimulate elimination of uric acid ,  or increase production of uric acid .
therapy using an agent that promotes the excretion of urine through its effects on kidney function
treatment with an agent that control agitated psychotic behaviour ,  alleviate acute psychotic states ,  reduce psychotic symptoms ,  and exert a quieting effect .
treatment with a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
treatment with a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of virus diseases .
use of a compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
a therapy utilizing a substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
treatment with medications to improve cognition and function for patients with dementia .
treatment with a drug used to prevent nausea or vomiting .
use of a drug to prevent or treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
use of a drug that acts on blood and blood - forming organs and those that affect the hemostatic system .
use of an agent that prevents blood clotting .
use of a drug which antagonizes or impairs any mechanism leading to blood platelet aggregation ,  whether during the phases of activation and shape change or following the dense - granule release reaction and stimulation of the prostaglandin - thromboxane system .
use of a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
treatment with a drug that acts on an alpha - adrenergic receptor .
treatment with an agent that selectively binds to and activates alpha - adrenergic receptors .
treatment with an agent that binds to but does not activate alpha - adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous alpha - adrenergic agonists .
treatment with a drug for prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
treatment with a drug that acts on beta - adrenergic receptors .
an agent that binds to but does not activate beta - adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous beta - adrenergic agonists .
therapy using an agent that reduces plasma lipids ,  such as cholesterol or low density lipoproteins  ( ldl )  ,  acting systemically or locally  ( intestines )  to decrease fat digestion ,  absorption ,  production ,  and accumulation in the plasma and reducing pathogenic atherosclerosis and thrombosis .
treatment with renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system  ( raas )  inhibitors ,  a group of drugs that act by inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system and include angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitors ,  angiotensin - receptor blockers  ( arbs )  ,  and direct renin inhibitors
a therapy using a drug to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
use of a drug that has principally analgesic ,  antipyretic and anti - inflammatory actions .
use of a narcotic or opioid substance ,  synthetic or semisynthetic agent producing profound analgesia ,  drowsiness ,  and changes in mood .
treatment with any member of a group of drugs that reversibly inhibit the propagation of signals along nerves .
use of a class of beta - lactam antibiotics differing from the penicillins in having a 6 - membered ,  rather than a 5 - membered ,  side ring .
use of a drug with a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members which exhibits antibiotic activity .
use of an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic whose structure contains a quinolone or quinolone - related skeleton .
use of a class of sulfonamides whose members generally have bacteriostatic antibiotic properties .
treatment with a broad - spectrum polyketide antibiotic produced by the streptomyces genus of actinobacteria .
treatment with a drug that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
treatment with a substance ,  such as agonists ,  antagonists ,  degradation or uptake inhibitors ,  depleters ,  precursors ,  and modulators of receptor function ,  used for its pharmacological actions on gabaergic systems .
use of a drug that inhibits sodium influx through cell membranes .
they are a group of drugs that block the normal breakdown of acetylcholine  ( ach )  into acetate and choline and thereby increase both the levels and duration of actions of acetylcholine found in the central and peripheral nervous system .
a drug that acts as an inhibitor that interferes with the action of monoamine oxidase  ( ec 1 .4 .3 .4 )  .
treatment with mood - stimulating agents which contain a tricyclic structure and are used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions .
treatment with a class of steroid hormones that regulate a variety of physiological processes ,  in particular control of the concentration of glucose in blood .
treatment with an anti - inflammatory drug that is not a steroid .
use of a treat or prevent infections caused by mycobacteria ,  a genus of actinobacteria .
use of a substance that kills or slows the growth of mycobacterium tuberculosis and is used in the treatment of tuberculosis .
an antineoplastic agent that replaces hydrogen atom ( s )  in nucleophilic moieties with alky radical ( s )  ,  hindering proper function .
use of an agent or endogenous substance that inhibits the formation of capillaries from existing blood vessels .
treatment with an ec 1 .14 .14 .
treatment with an antimicrobial drug which is used to treat or prevent protozoal infections .
treatment with a drug which can have different modes of action but which tend to be less likely than first generation antipsychotics to cause extrapyramidal motor control disabilities such as body rigidity or parkinson's disease - type movements .
treatment with a drug which can have different modes of action but which tend to be more likely than second generation antipsychotics to cause extrapyramidal motor control disabilities such as body rigidity or parkinson's disease - type movements ;  such body movements can become permanent even after treatment has ceased .
use of any drug that counters herpes .
treatment with an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the human immunodeficiency virus .
use of an inhibitor of hiv protease ,  an enzyme required for production of proteins needed for viral assembly .
treatment with an antimanic drugs are agents used to treat bipolar disorders or mania associated with other affective disorders .
a synthetic or animal - derived form of insulin used in the treatment of diabetes mellitus .
treatment with drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
treatment with a class of central nervous system stimulants based on the structure of the parent amphetamine 1 - phenylpropan - 2 - amine .
use of a drug to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin .
use of a drug for its effects on the gastrointestinal system ,  e .g .
h2 - receptor antagonists are the drugs that selectively bind to but do not activate histamine h2 receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of endogenous histamine .
any one of the substituted benzimidazole compounds with anti - ulcer activity .
use of any agent that can alter hormone levels or modulate hormone effects .
a drug which acts to modulates estrogenic activity in the body ,  either by modulating the amount of estrogen or by modulating the activity of whatever estrogen is present .
use of a compound which inhibits or antagonises the biosynthesis or actions of androgens .
use of a drug that induces ,  enhances ,  restores or suppresses the host's immune system ,  or an agent that utilizes or is derived from a component of the immune system .
use of a substance that augments ,  stimulates ,  activates ,  potentiates ,  or modulates the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level .
use of an agent that suppresses immune function by one of several mechanisms of action .
the drug treatment of inflammatory bowel disease  ( ibd )  ,  which may include the use of anti - inflammatory agents and \ nagents that reduce the symptoms associated with ibd .
use of an agent that exerts a physiologic effect on any anatomic entity that is part of the respiratory tract and airways .
use of drugs that bind to but do not activate histamine receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of histamine or histamine agonists .
use of a drug designed to prevent leukotriene synthesis or activity by blocking binding at the receptor level .
use of an agent that causes an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes .
treatment with a central nervous system depressant used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety .
use of a drug used to produce muscle relaxation  ( excepting neuromuscular blocking agents )  .
use of a substance for the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
use of an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic that contains a beta - lactam ring .
treatment with a pharmaceutical agent that inhibits the movement of calcium across through calcium channels in the cell membrane ,  preventing or decreasing the amount of calcium able to enter the cell .
treatment with  a drug that inhibits the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
use of medication for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder  ( adhd )  .
use of stimulant medication  ( usually amphetamines )  for treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder  ( adhd )  .
treatment with a medication that increases the extracellular level of the neurotransmitter serotonin  ( 5 - ht )  by inhibiting its reuptake into the presynaptic cell .
use of a drug that inhibits erythropoietin ,  a glycoprotein hormone that controls erythropoiesis  ( red blood cell production )  .
use of a drug that lower the level of glucose in the blood .
a therapy utilizing an inhaled substance that produces loss of consciousness .
a therapy utilizing an intravenous substance that produces loss of consciousness .
a superficial loss of sensation in conjunctiva ,  mucous membranes ,  or skin ,  produced by direct application of local anesthetic solutions ,  ointments ,  gels or sprays .
use of an agent that modulates the physiologic angiogenesis process .
a therapy used to neutralise stomach acidity .
a therapy used to treat or ameliorate peptic ulcer or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract .
treatment of allergic reactions with medications .
usage of a drug to treat asthma .
treatment with a drug which acts to reduce estrogenic activity in the body ,  either by reducing the amount of estrogen or by reducing the activity of whatever estrogen is present .
use of a compound which can be used to treat or alleviate the symptoms of dyskinesia .
treatment with an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the herpes simplex virus .
treatment with an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the herpes simplex virus - 1 .
use of a natural or synthetic analogue of the hormones secreted by the adrenal gland as a type of anti - inflammatory treatment .
treatment with a drug to alleviate rheumatiod arthritis and its symptoms .
use of an inhibitor that interferes with the action of enzyme acetylcholinesterase ,  which helps breaking down of acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid
a therapy using a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
treatment with a cardiovascular drug that prevents atherogenesis ,  the accumulation of lipid - containing plaques on the innermost layers of the arteries .
use of a drug that inhibits angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii .
treatment with a class of agents that act by selectively inhibiting angiotensin ii receptor activation in the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system .
use of a drug that inhibits angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  1 ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii .
use of a drug that modulates the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
use of a drug that activates the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
the goal of immunotherapy is to induce anti - disease  ( usually tumor )  responses by reprogramming and augmenting immune surveillance ,  and reducing immune suppression .
a therapy utilizing a substance that produces loss of consciousness .
use of a drug or therapy to treat or prevent microbial infections .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
treatment with a traditional grouping of drugs said to have a soothing or calming effect on mood ,  thought or behaviour .
therapy using any agent that acts on an adrenergic receptor or affects adrenergic signal transduction .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates beta - adrenergic receptors .
the surgical transfer of a healthy bone tissue to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy heart to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy cornea to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy intestine to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy small intestine to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy lung to a patient .
the transfer of an organ ,  or organ subpart ,  from one body to another .
the surgical transfer of a healthy ovary to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy zone of skin to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy kidney to a patient .
 \ "behavior related to the complex psychophysiological experience of an individual's state of mind as interacting with biochemical  ( internal )  and environmental  ( external )  influences . \ "  [ wikipedia:emotions ] 
movement from place to place of an organism . \ "  [ go:0007626 ] 
 \ "a behavioral interaction between organisms in which one organism has the intention of inflicting damage on another individual using physical or verbal means . \ "  [ wikipedia:aggression ] 
the act of locomoting on limbs with body off the ground such that at least one limb is always touching the ground  [ nbo:ac ] 
a very broad category including the partial or complete performance of adult functional behaviors in non - functional contexts ,  as well as interactive behaviors peculiar to immature animals  [ nbo:ac ] 
undirected behavior involving exercise and coordination ,  and often associated with repetition and 'practice' of adult behavior patterns in a non - functional context   [ nbo:ac ] 
 \ "an aggressive behavior that aims to inflicting damage on another entity using physical means . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "the action ,  reaction ,  or performance of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ go:go \  \ :0007610 ] 
 \ "movement behavior of the body or its parts . \ "
 \ "behavior associated with surface locomotion . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the intake of substances . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the intake of addictive substances . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of consumption behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of consumption of an addictive substance ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
consumption behavior that involves inhaling a material  ( such as finely ground tobacco leaves )  through the nose .
smoking behavior that involves burning a substance such as tobacco wrapped in paper and inhaling the smoke .
smoking behavior that involves burning a substance such as tobacco wrapped in tobacco leaf and inhaling the smoke .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to pressure ,  being broken ,  or pierced
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to detect or perceive external stimulation .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
a hardness quality of being rigid and resistant to pressure .
a hardness quality of giving little resistance to pressure .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a horizontal surface without a slope ,  tilt ,  or curvature .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking branches .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking or not exhibiting variation .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
an optical quality which obtains by virtue of the ability of the bearer to absorb visible light .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being clear ;  not transmitting or reflecting light or radiant energy .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking opacity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to admit the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a permeability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a porosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of admitting the passage of gas or liquid through pores or interstices .
a physical quality of a liquid inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to internal resistance to flow .
a viscosity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having viscosity .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of force per unit area it exerts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably higher than its width .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being narrow ,  with the two opposite margins parallel .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits variation or change .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to varying or changing .
a temperature which is relatively high .
a temperature which is relatively low .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lack of distinct morphology .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having distinct structure .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking distinct structure .
a concentration quality inhering in a medium by virtue of the bearer's tendency to hydronate a specific reference base .
an medium acidity quality inhering in a solution by virtue of the bearer's a high concentration of h +  ions .
a sensitivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's dependence on oxygen .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's independence on oxygen .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an oblique or slanted direction .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being thicker or more closely packed together ;  pressed tightly together .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity characterized by particles arranged such that their shape and volume are relatively stable .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity consisting of particles that have neither a defined volume nor defined shape .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a pressure which is relatively low .
a pressure which is relatively high .
a variability which is relatively low .
a variability which is relatively high .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of osmoles of solute per liter of solution .
a osmolarity which is relatively low .
a osmolarity which is relatively high .
an elevation which is relatively high .
an elevation which is relatively low .
a viscosity which relatively high .
a viscosity which relatively low .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing granules .
a flexibility which is relatively high .
a flexibility which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality that is relatively high .
a wetness quality that is relatively low .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing acid  ( hydrogen ions )  .
an acidity which is relatively low .
an acidity which is relatively high .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's disposition to being water - repellent ;  tending to repel and not absorb water .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking affinity for water ;  tending to repel and not absorb water ;  tending not to dissolve in or mix with or be wetted by water .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's disposition to having an affinity for water ;  it is readily absorbing or dissolving in water .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to having a strong affinity for water ;  tending to dissolve in ,  mix with ,  or be wetted by water .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being kept below its freezing point .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
a shape inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being elongated and cylindrical .
having extra or fewer parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing the form of a thin plate sheet or layer .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being roundish ,  flattish shape ,  possibly with a slightly angled edge .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's surface becoming more extended in a plane .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably lower than its width .
recurrent and often more or less cyclic alteration .
a composition quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being composed of or possessing inorganic material .
a quality inhering in a process by virtue of that process having two or more organisms as participants .
a quality inhering in a process by virtue of that process having exactly one organism as a participant .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
a quality inhering in air by virtue of the partial pressure exerted by the bearer's water vapour content .
an increase in humidity .
an decrease in humidity .
the propensity of a material to undergo combustion .
an increase in combustibility .
an decrease in combustibility .
an increase in porosity .
an decrease in porosity .
a material entity that consists of two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids .
a collection of organisms ,  all of the same species ,  that live in the same place .
a multi - species collection of organisms of at least two different species ,  living in a particular area .
a material entity that has as parts two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids of the same species and no members of any other species .
a collection of organisms that consists of two or more organisms from at least two species .
a material entity that is one or more organisms ,  viruses or viroids .
a plant structure  ( po:0005679 )  which is a whole organism .
an anatomical structure that is or was part of a plant ,  or was derived from a part of a plant .
an anatomical entity that is or was part of a plant .
a process occurring within or in the vicinity of an organism that exerts some causal influence on the organism via the interaction between an exposure stimulus and an exposure receptor .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
the clusters of hormone - producing cells that are scattered throughout the pancreas
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that lines organs and supports the mucosa ,  as well as joins the mucosa to the bulk of underlying smooth muscle .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
part of peripheral nervous system that includes the somatic parts of the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors .
the sympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system  ( the other being the parasympathetic nervous system )  .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the endocrine system and is made up of islet cells ,  which produce insulin ,  glucagon and somatostatin .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the exocrine system and which produces and store zymogens of digestive enzymes ,  such as chymotrypsinogen and trypsinogen in the acinar cells  [ go ]  .
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
major subdivision of an organism that protrudes from the body [ dos ,  caro ]  .
a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa [ wp ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory airway .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer  ( mesothelium )  and a connective tissue layer .
dense regular connective tissue that connects muscle to bone [ vsao ]  .
a biological tissue mass ,  most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies .
an eye with one concave chamber .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
muscular duct that propels urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder ,  or related organs .
the fibromuscular tubular canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder to the exterior via the external urinary meatus ;  in males ,  the urethra is joined by the ejaculatory ducts and serves as a passageway for semen during ejaculation ,  as well as a canal for urine during voiding ;  in females ,  the urethra is shorter and emerges above the vaginal opening
a tubular structure that transports secreted or excreted substances .
a subdivision of the digestive tract that connects the small intestine to the cloaca or anus .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
the second stage of the kidney .
in mammals ,  the metanephros is the excretory organ of the fetus ,  which develops into the mature kidney and is formed from the rear portion of the nephrogenic cord .
a mesonephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the mesonephros [ go ]  .
an epithelial swelling on the wolffian duct that elongates to invade the adjacent metanephric mesenchyme [ mp ] 
a spherical embryonic mass of blastomeres formed before the blastula and resulting from cleavage of the fertilized ovum .
a glycoprotein membrane surrounding the plasma membrane of an oocyte .
a mass of cells that develop into the body of the embryo and some extraembryonic tissues
the mesectodermal cell layer arising from the trophectoderm that erodes the uterine mucosa and contributes to the formation of the placenta
a flattened ,  almost circular bilaminar plate of cells formed when the inner cell mass  ( aka embryoblast )  forms two epithelial layers ,  each of a distinct lineage ,  separated by an extracellular basement membrane: the external  ( dorsal )  layer is called the epiblast and the internal  ( ventral )  layer is called the hypoblast  ( aka primitive endoderm )  ;  together ,  they compose the bilaminar embryonic disc .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
portion of neural crest that develops from the dorsal neural tube .
the lung vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs [ go ]  .
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium ;  it contains basement membrane composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  proteoglycans ,  and fibronectin
the epithelial layer of the lung .
a tube in the respiratory system .
structure derived from foregut that becomes a lung [ go ]  .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the cns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections ,  and including nearby cells that share the same cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
nucleus that receives projections from or contains neurons that send projections through one of the cranial nerves
the group of motor neurons residing in the pons that innervate the muscles of facial expression
the terminal part of the large intestine ,  continuous proximally with the rectum and distally terminates with the anus .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
common chamber into which the intestines and excretory system opens .
endoderm - lined chamber that develops as pouch - like dilation of the caudal end of the hindgut and receives the allantois ventrally and two mesonephric ducts laterally ;  caudally it ends blindly at the cloacal membrane formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm [ mp ]  .
the ventral part of the cloaca remaining after septation of the rectum ,  which further develops into part of the bladder ,  part of the prostatic part of the male urethra and the urethra and vestibule in females
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
a section dividing a colon along a proximal - distal axis .
the pair of anatomical structures comprised of a left lung and right lung .
organ that functions in gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
amniotic fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of watery liquid surrounding and cushioning a growing fetus within the amnion .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
a layer of membrane around a tendon .
the thin innermost layer of the extraembryonic membranes that contains the amniotic fluid ;  the membrane forms a closed sac in which the embryo and later ,  the fetus ,  is suspended and protected
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
the external portion of an animal body derived from ectoderm and mesoderm layers that encloses the body cavity .
mucosa that is part of a colon .
a mucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the branched tubular glands found in the mucosa of the fundus and body of the stomach which contain parietal cells that secrete hydrochloric acid and zymogenic cells that produce pepsin .
pancreatic juice is slightly alkaline and contains numerous enzymes and inactive enzyme precursors including alpha - amylase ,  chymotrypsinogen ,  lipase ,  procarboxypeptidase ,  proelastase ,  prophospholipase a2 ,  ribonuclease ,  and trypsinogen .
the wall of the digestive tract .
a gland that is part of the intestinal mucosa .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
functional part of an organ in the body .
a mucosa that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mammalian blastocyst is a hollow ball of cells containing two cell types ,  the inner cell mass and the trophectoderm [ go ]  .
the part of the hindlimb between pelvis and the knee ,  corresponding to the femur .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the palate ,  upper teeth and gingiva ,  the skin between the palpebral fissure and the mouth ,  and from the nasal cavity and maxillary sinuses .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory airway .
apocrine sweat glands are sweat glands composed of a coiled secretory portion located at the junction of the dermis and subcutaneous fat ,  from which a straight portion inserts and secretes into the infundibular portion of the hair follicle .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
tissue that surrounds the lens nucleus
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
an epithelium that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are serous secreting cells .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are mucus secreting cells .
an anatomical wall that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
the organs and associated structures associated with bearing offspring in a female animal .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
unilaminar epithelium which consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
mucus is a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
the subdivision of the vertebrate body between the thorax and pelvis .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into an ectodermal terminal part of the digestive tract .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce endocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
paired endochondral long bone that extends between the pectoral girdle and the skeletal parts of the forelimb .
the portion of the hindlimb that contains both the stylopod and zeugopod .
endochondral longbone connecting the pelvic girdle with posterior zeugopodium skeleton .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
the part of the central nervous system lying between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain ,  ventral to the cerebellum .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the gonad of a female organism which contains germ cells
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the renal system in an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products . .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of axons in the peripheral nervous system originating in a nerve root in the central nervous system  ( or a condensed nervous structure )  connecting with peripheral structures .
a nerve that transmits from sensory receptors on the surface of the body to the central nervous system .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
the sensory system for the sense of taste .
a sac - like expansion of the ventral wall of the intestine ,  narrowed into a yolk stalk near the body [ hyman's ]  .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
the caudalmost subdivision of a digestive tract .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
in the developing vertebrate ,  the neural tube is the embryo's precursor to the central nervous system ,  which comprises the brain and spinal cord .
the terminal portion of the intestinal tube ,  terminating with the anus
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a duct joining the pancreas to the common bile duct to supply pancreatic juices which aid in digestion provided by the exocrine pancreas .
a zone of skin that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
it ascends beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius ,  distributing branches to it ,  and to the neighboring muscles and lymph glands in the neck ,  and anastomosing with the superficial branch of the descending branch of the occipital artery .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
a point along the course of the gastrointestinal tract where the small intestine  ( ileum )  ends as it opens into the cecal portion of the large intestine ;  occurs usually within the iliac fossa ,  demarcated internally as the ileocecal orifice
a potential space between the visceral and parietal layers of the pericardium .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
an epicardial layer that lines a cardiac ventricle
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
secretion produced by a sweat gland .
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
traditional gross anatomy divided the liver into four lobes based on surface features .
the right lobe is much larger than the left ;  the proportion between them being as six to one .
the left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right .
muscle tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells ,  forming the muscles of the heart [ zfa , modified ]  .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
in anatomy ,  the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  is a blood vessel that drains blood from the small intestine .
either of the pair of major vessels which arise from the renal hilus and return blood from the kidneys ,  suprarenal gland and the ureter to the inferior vena cava .
a renal vein that drains the right kidney
a renal vein that drains the left kidney
vein that carries blood away from the liver [ zfa ]  .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from its corresponding ovary to inferior vena cava or one of its tributaries .
the tubular structure that conducts gall bladder contents from the gall bladder to the common bile duct
last portion of the large intestine before it becomes the rectum .
the part of the large intestine that is closest to the rectum and anus .
the body of stomach is the part of the stomach that lies between the fundus above and the pyloric antrum below ;  its boundaries are poorly defined [ go ]  .
the area at the bottom of the stomach on the caudal side of the pyloric canal that contains gastrin - producing g cells ,  which stimulate acid production ,  and the luminal ph - sensitive population of somatostatin - producing d cells
the stomach tissue region surrounding and controlling the distal outlet of the stomach ,  which opens into the duodenum
the layered structure that makes up the stomach ,  typiclly consists of a serous coat ,  a muscular coat ,  a mucous membrane ,  and other tissue layers in between
an anatomical wall that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the triangular region on the periphery of the liver lobules that contain a bile duct and a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel .
the functional unit of the liver ,  consisting of a mass of hepatocytes from adjacent liver lobules aligned around the hepatic arterioles and portal venules just as they anastomose into sinusoids .
a complex network of conduits that begins with the canals of hering  ( intralobar bile duct )  and progressively merges into a system of interlobular ,  septal ,  and major ducts which then coalesce to form the extrahepatic bile ducts ,  which finally deliver bile to the intestine ,  and in some species to the gallbladder .
the part of the biliary tree formed by the union of the cystic duct and the common hepatic duct
predominantly extrahepatic bile duct which is formed by the junction of the right and left hepatic ducts ,  which are predominantly intrahepatic ,  and ,  in turn ,  joins the cystic duct to form the common bile duct [ gaid ]  .
the duct that drains bile from the right half of the liver and joins the left hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the duct that drains bile from the left half of the liver and joins the right hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the kidneys .
renal artery that supplies the right kidney
renal artery that supplies the left kidney
an artery that supplies an ovary .
an artery that supplies the liver .
the mucosal layer that lines the stomach .
the fibrous connective tissue layer beneath the stomach mucosa
the outermost layer of the stomach wall ,  consisting of layers of connective tissue continuous with the peritoneum
a strong ring of smooth muscle at the end of the pyloric canal which lets food pass from the stomach to the duodenum .
a mucosa that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
submucosal tissue in the small intestines .
a serous membrane that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a compound tubular submucosal gland found in that portion of the duodenum which is above the hepatopancreatic sphincter  ( sphincter of oddi )  .
the tiny hair - like projections that protrude from the inside of the small intestine that contain blood vessels that capture digested nutrients that are absorbed through the intestinal wall ;  the villi increase the absorptive surface area of the small intestine by approximately 30 - fold
a blood vessel that drains blood from the large intestine that usually terminates when reaching the splenic vein ,  which goes on to form the portal vein with the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  .
an ureter that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ureter that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a funnel shaped proximal portion of the ureter that is formed by convergence of the major calices  [ mp ]  .
outer cortical portion of the kidney ,  between the renal capsule and the renal medulla .
an epithelial tube that is part of the nephron ,  the functional part of the kidney .
the collecting duct is a portion of the nephron through which water flows ,  moving passively down its concentration gradient
lamina propria that is part_of the small intestine .
mucosal layer that lines the intestine .
a serous membrane that is part of a wall of intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
orifice at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth .
the canals that carry bile in the liver between the intralobular ducts and the biliary ductules ;  interlobular bile ducts are part of the interlobular portal triad .
an adventitia that is part of a ureter .
a lamina propria that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
an anatomical wall that lines the insider of a urinary bladder .
the mucous membrane lining the urinary bladder
a serous membrane that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the secretory units of the exocrine pancreas ,  where fluid containing digestive enzymes is produced ;  consists of a group of secretory cells surrounding a luminal space that connects to the pancreatic duct .
an endoderm derived structure that produces precursors of digestive enzymes and blood glucose regulating enzymes [ go ]  .
the femoral nerve ,  the largest branch of the lumbar plexus ,  arises from the ventral divisions of the second ,  third ,  and fourth lumbar nerves .
the organism subdivision that includes the pelvic girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
a fused bone consisting of the ilium ,  ischium and and pubis .
paired endochondral bone that is the dorsal - most of the pelvic bones ,  offering attachment areas for gluteal muscles on its main surface  [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
endochondral bone that is paired ,  forming the posterior part of the pelvis ,  articulating with the pubis and ilium .
the epithelial layer of the stomach  .
epithelial layer that lines the intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a multi - organ - part structure that consists of three vessels of the portal lobule including the bile duct ,  a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel
the functional units of the liver including the lobules .
the tubules located between the bile canaliculi and interlobular bile ducts near the outer edge of a classic liver lobule
the basic functional unit of the kidney .
an artery that supplies blood to the upper urinary bladder .
a vein that begins near the upper part of the greater sciatic foramen ,  passes upward behind and slightly medial to the hypogastric artery and ,  at the brim of the pelvis ,  joins with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein .
a large nerve that supplies nearly the whole of the skin of the leg ,  the muscles of the back of the thigh ,  and those of the leg and foot .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the pelvis .
a urethra that is part of a female reproductive system .
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the male or female urethra that help protect the epithelium from the corrosive urine
a tube running from the outer ear to the middle ear .
the anus and surrounding regions .
a muscle that is part of the region of the hindlimb between the pelvis and ankle .
a zone of skin that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organism subdivision that includes the pectoral girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a free forelimb region .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb region .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a manus ,  which is the distal section of the anterior forelimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a pes ,  which is the distal section of the posterior hindlimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the forelimb extending from the shoulder to the autopod [ cjm ]  .
the elbow is the region surrounding the elbow - joint - the ginglymus or hinge joint in the middle of the arm .
the hip region is located lateral to the gluteal region  ( i .e .
a subdivision of the pectoral complex consisting of the structures in the region of the shoulder joint  ( which connects the humerus ,  scapula and clavicle )  .
the glenohumeral joint ,  commonly known as the shoulder joint ,  is a multiaxial synovial ball and socket joint and involves articulation between the glenoid fossa of the scapula  ( shoulder blade )  and the head of the humerus  ( upper arm bone )  .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
any muscle organ that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a shoulder region .
an articular capsule  ( or joint capsule )  is an envelope surrounding a synovial joint .
a skeletal joint that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the hindlimb autopod and zeugopod skeletons .
a skeletal joint that is part of a manus  ( hand )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the forelimb zeugopod and stylopod skeletons [ obol ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the descending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two - pass circulatory system from the arch of aorta to the point where it divides into the common iliac arteries [ go ]  .
the part of the aorta that extends from the origin at the heart to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest
abdominal part of aorta: the distal part of the descending aorta ,  which is the continuation of the thoracic part and gives rise to the inferior phrenic ,  lumbar ,  median sacral ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ,  middle suprarenal ,  renal ,  and testicular or ovarian arteries ,  and celiac trunk [ bto ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bilaterally paired branched artery that originates from the aortic arches and divides into and includes as parts the internal and external carotid arteries [ cjm ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hip region .
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the urinary bladder and the urethra .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
the muscles associated with the larynx .
a muscle innervated by a facial nerve .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
one of two jugular veins that collect the blood from the brain ,  the superficial parts of the face ,  and the neck .
the bronchial veins are small vessels that return blood from the larger bronchi and structures at the roots of the lungs .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the iris .
a smooth muscle of the eye ,  running radially in the iris that functions as a dilator .
a branch of the external carotid artery that supplies structures of the face .
an artery that supplies deep structures of the face .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
an epithelial tube or tree of tibes that transports blood away from the heart [ modified from aeo definition ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
cranial nerve that has three branches  -  the ophthalmic  ( supplying the skin of the nose and upper jaw )  ,  the maxillary and the mandibular  ( supplying the lower jaw )  .
cranial nerve that branches into the supraorbital  ( supplying the skin of the eye region and the lateral line organs here )  ,  the palatine  ( to the roof of the buccal cavity )  ,  and the hyomandibular  ( dividing into the jugular and mental branches )  .
cranial nerve that branches into the ramus communicans  ( to the skin )  ,  the pretrematic  ( to the walls of the pharynx and mouth ,  viscero - sensory fibers )  ,  and the larval post - trematic branch  ( lost in the adult )  .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the right lung .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the left lung .
the anterior facial vein  ( facial vein )  commences at the side of the root of the nose ,  and is a direct continuation of the angular vein where it also receives a small nasal branch .
the cranial ganglion that is associated with and extends fibers into the trigeminal nerve .
the bone at the lower ,  posterior part of the skull
the large ,  irregular bone located at the base and side of the skull ;  consists of three parts at birth: squamous ,  tympanic ,  and petrous
one of 3 small bones contained within the middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid - filled labyrinth .
sense organ in vertebrates that is specialized for the detection of sound ,  and the maintenance of balance .
part of the ear external to the tympanum  ( eardrum )  .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the facial nerve  ( seventh cranial nerve ) 
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the ninth cranial nerve .
subdivision of skeletal system that surrounds and protects the brain .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
the groups of nerve cell bodies associated with the twelve cranial nerves
a specialized receptor organ that is a collection of cells spanning the gustatory epithelium .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pharynx .
a continuation of the pharynx that is involved in breathing ,  sound production ,  and protecting the trachea against food aspiration .
the cartilaginous structures that support the larynx .
the middle ear is the air - filled cavity within the skull of vertebrates that lies between the outer ear and the inner ear .
the part of the ear that projects from the head ,  connecting to the external acoustic meatus .
cranial nerve that branches into the lateral  ( to body sense organs )  and the intestino - accessorial  ( to the skin ,  muscles of shoulder ,  hyoid ,  larynx ,  gut ,  lungs ,  and heart )  .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
opaque fibrous outer layer of the eyeball [ zfa , kardong , wp ]  .
a skeletal muscle organ that is part of the trunk region .
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
vascular layer containing connective tissue ,  of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
the lamellated connective tissue of the cornea between the bowman and descemet membranes
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
the delicate vascular connective tissue that lies between the anterior surface of the iris and the pars iridica retinae .
the any of the paired peripheral nerves formed by the union of the dorsal and ventral spinal roots from each spinal cord segment [ mp , modified ] 
any of the layers that make up the retina [ mp ]  .
cranial nerves are nerves that emerge directly from the brain ,  in contrast to spinal nerves ,  which emerge from segments of the spinal cord .
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
the clusters of neurons in the somatic peripheral nervous system which contain the cell bodies of sensory nerve axons ,  interneurons and non - neuronal supporting cells .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is outer most layer of the lens
ganglion that has dendrites that form a junction between autonomic nerves originating from the central nervous system and autonomic nerves innervating their target organs in the periphery .
a ganglion of the sympathetic nervous system .
anatomical junction where subdivisions of two or more neural trees interconnect with one another to form a network through which nerve fibers of the constituent nerve trees become regrouped ;  together with other nerve plexuses ,  nerves and ganglia ,  it constitutes the peripheral nervous system .
an intermingling of fiber fascicles from adjacent spinal nerves to form a network .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine where it proceeds through the neck then the axilla and into the arm where it innervates skin and muscle .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine that travels to the pelvic appendage where it innervates skin and muscle .
a nerve plexus that is part of an autonomic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the coil glands of the skin that secrete sweat
the mucous lining of the larynx ,  which is composed of squamous epithelium in the upper larynx and ciliated columnar epithelium in the lower larynx .
one of the two fleshy folds which surround the opening of the mouth .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
complex labyrinthine structure that comprises sensory endorgans specialized for vestibular ,  auditory ,  and acoustico - vestibular sensation .
cartilage of the pinna and much of the external ear canal .
outermost layer of an organ [ wp ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the midbrain is the middle division of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain  ( in vertebrates ,  includes a ventral part containing the cerebral peduncles and a dorsal tectum containing the corpora quadrigemina and that surrounds the aqueduct of sylvius connecting the third and fourth ventricles )  [ go ]  .
a segment of the developing hindbrain [ zfa ]  .
rostral segment of the hindbrain that has as its parts the pons  ( where present )  and the cerebellum [ wp , modified ]  .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
the epithelial lining of the trachea which contains numerous ciliated cells
an epithelium that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a capillary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vein  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
ventral part of the midbrain ,  separated from the hindbrain by the isthmus [ isbn:0471888893 ]  .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord .
the hyaline cartilaginous structures that support the bronchi ,  present as irregular rings in the larger bronchi  ( and not as regular as in the trachea )  ,  and as small plates and islands in the smaller bronchi ;  as the branching continues through the bronchial tree ,  the amount of hyaline cartilage in the walls decreases until it is absent in the smallest bronchioles [ mp ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines a terminal bronchiole .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
vital aqueous secretion of the liver that is formed by hepatocytes and modified down stream by absorptive and secretory properties of the bile duct epithelium .
one of the minute vessels that collect deoxygenated blood from the capillary plexuses returns it to the veins
the smallest division of the artery located between the muscular arteries and the capillaries [ go ]  .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
a monolayer of specialized ,  flattened ,  mitochondria - rich cells that lines the posterior surface of the cornea and faces the anterior chamber of the eye [ wp ]  .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
cartilage tissue primarily composed of type ii collagen  ( thin fibrils )  and a glassy appearance .
cartilage tissue that is flexible and contains abundant elastic fibers .
a plexus of nerves situated at the base of the heart that innervate the heart .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
the tough fibrous layer surrounding the kidney which is covered in a thick layer of perirenal adipose tissue that functions to provide some protection from trauma and damage
pulmonary veins are blood vessels that transport blood from the lungs to the heart [ go ]  .
a vein that conducts blood from the digestive organs ,  spleen ,  pancreas ,  and gallbladder to the liver [ bto ]  .
a cranial nerve that originates from neurons in the medulla and in the cervical spinal cord .
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
the simple columnar epithelial lining of the gall bladder .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
muscle tissue that contains fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations .
a systemic artery that supplies the lung with with oxygenated blood .
the pontine raphe nucleus is one of the raphe nuclei .
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the truncus arteriosus and bulbus cordis are divided by the aorticopulmonary septum .
the endocardial cushion is a specialized region of mesenchymal cells that will give rise to the heart septa and valves [ go ]  .
the sinus venosus is a large cardiac chamber at the inflow tract that receives venous blood from systemic circulation .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the right side of the heart .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
cardiac chamber through which blood leaves the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac septum that divides the left and right atria of the heart .
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton which which consists of all the skeletal elements in in the pectoral and pelvic appendage complexes [ cjm ]  .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
a paired appendage that is evolved from a paired fin .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pectoral girdle .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pelvic girdle region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
sensory system responsible for the perception of spatial orientation and auditory stimuli .
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
subdivision of digestive tract that connects the stomach to the large intestine and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place  ( with the exception of ruminants )  .
an organ that aids digestion and stores bile produced by the liver [ wp ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a paired organ of the urinary tract which has the production of urine as its primary function .
the first part of the small intestine .
an ovary that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ovary that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
in mammals ,  the pronephros is the first of the three embryonic kidneys to be established and exists only transiently .
a a collection of brainstem nuclei that functions in multiple aspects of hearing and is an important component of the ascending and descending auditory pathways of the auditory system .
the locus ceruleus is a dense cluster of neurons within the dorsorostral pons .
nucleus containing parasympathetic neurons giving rise to the parasympathetic division of the facial nerve ,  innervating the salivary glands  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 703 )  .
the endocardium is an anatomical structure comprised of an endothelium and an extracellular matrix that forms the innermost layer of tissue of the heart ,  and lines the heart chambers [ go ]  .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
the upper conducting airways of the lung ;  these airways arise from the terminus of the trachea
the conducting airway of the lungs found terminal to the bronchi ;  these structures contain neither cartilage nor mucous - secreting glands ;  the epithelium of the bronchioles becomes thinner with each branching
the last conducting structure of non - respiratory bronchioles ;  after this point ,  the airways have alveoli in their walls
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a trachea .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by cartilage .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
the part of the coelemic cavity lumen that is enclosed by the walls of the thorax .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
endoskeletal elements that encase the brain ,  nose ,  inner ear [ cjm ]  .
a composite substructure of the brainstem that consists of the midbrain reticular formation ,  the pontine reticular formation and the medullary reticular formation  (  carpenter - 1983  )  .
organ system subdivision that consists of the organs and ducts that are involved in the production and transportation of bile .
the yellow or brown waxy secretions produced by vestigial apocrine sweat glands in the external ear canal [ mesh ]  .
stalk - like part of the brain that includes amongst its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain [ zfa , mp , generalized ]  .
the atrial part of middle layer of the heart ,  comprised of involuntary muscle
a neural nucleus that is part of the brain .
the ridge - shaped grey matter of the spinal cord that extends longitudunally through the center of each half of the spinal cord ,  and are largely or entirely composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
any muscle organ that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the urethra is a renal system organ that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body .
a lamina propria that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a flexible rod - shaped body found in embryos of all chordates .
somites are spheres of epithelial cells that form sequentially along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo through mesenchymal to epithelial transition of the presomitic mesoderm .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
a lamina propria that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
set of all muscles in abdomen .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
a region of the serous membrane that forms the innermost layer of the pericardium and the outer surface of the heart .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
the lower segment of the trunk ,  inferioposterior to the abdomen proper ,  in the transition area between the trunk and the lower limbs .
serous membrane which is divided into parietal and visceral serous pericardium .
membrane organ which is attached to the pericardial sac proper and the central tendon of diaphragm and is continuous with the pretracheal fascia .
a thin membrane that separates the external ear from the middle ear ,  consisting of two epithelia  ( one part of the the external accoustic meatus epithelium ,  the other part of the tympanic cavity epithelium )  with a fibrous layer between them .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products directly into the circulatory system rather than through a duct .
any skeletal muscle that is part of the head region .
any muscle that is part of the cervical  ( neck )  region .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the abdomen .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
the middle limb segment of the pectoral free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
distal portion of the hind limb ,  including tarsal region ,  metatarsal region and digits .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
any of the ducts that form the biliary tree ,  carrying bile from the liver to the small intestine .
distal segment of the fore limb ,  including carpal region ,  metacarpal region and digits .
anatomical system that protects the body from foreign substances ,  cells ,  and tissues by producing the immune response and that includes especially the thymus ,  spleen ,  lymphoid tissue ,  lymphocytes including the b cells and t cells ,  and antibodies .
a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels .
the combination of pericardial sac  ( a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels )  plus fibrous pericardium .
parietal serous membrane which is part of the pericardium and forms the outer layer of the pericardial sac .
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
the autonomic nervous system is composed of neurons that are not under conscious control ,  and is comprised of two antagonistic components ,  the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
the abdominal segment of the torso .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the digestive system that contains the liver and the biliary system
an epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium and is attached to the myocardium [ fma ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
arteries that supply the spinal cord .
a tributary of the iliac vein that drains the urinary bladder .
clear to pale yellow watery secretions from the glands lining the small intestine walls .
terminal segment of free limb ,  immediately distal to the zeugopod region .
the middle free limb segment ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
the proximal free limb segment .
the largest cutaneous branch of the femoral nerve .
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
long bone is a limb bone that is subcylindrical and has a shaft with periosteum separating the ends of the bones .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
connective tissue composed of elastic fibers .
the middle layer of an artery or vein .
the innermost layer of a blood vessel which is a lining of endothelial cells facing the lumen [ kardong ]  .
a major subdivision of a mature or developing limb ,  including both skeletal elements  ( or the mesenchyme that gives rise to the skeletal elements )  and associated tissues ,  such as muscle ,  connective tissue ,  integument .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
the cavity that is enclosed by the central nervous system .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a trigeminal nuclear complex .
a sensory epithelium that is part of a gustatory system .
dorsal portion of the pons ,  containing cranial nervee nuclei ,  ascending and descending tracts and reticular nuclei .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
an epithelial sac of invaginated ectoderm formed from the otic placode that gives rise to the structures of the inner ear [ mp ] 
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
a temporary epithelium that derives from the outer layer of the ectdoerm and is shed once the inner layer differentiates to form a true epidermis .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
in mammals ,  the pronephric duct is the predecessor of the wolffian duct [ wp ]  .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
a horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue
the intermediate mesoderm is located between the lateral mesoderm and the paraxial mesoderm .
the second pharyngeal arch will form the hyoid apparatus .
lateral neurogenic placodes positioned dorsal of the epibranchial placodes .
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
a cranial placode which ,  once specified ,  invaginates to form an otic cup ,  which eventually separates from the surface ectoderm to form the otic vesicle or otocyst ,  a rounded structure without appar -  ent polarity .
a neurogenic placode that arises at the level of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary and develops into a trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
paired organ that connects the primitive kidney wolffian body  ( or mesonephros )  to the cloaca and serves as the anlage for certain male reproductive organs .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
focal thickenings of the embryonic ectoderm that form immediately dorsal and caudal of the clefts between the pharyngeal arches and that produce the neuroblasts that migrate and condense to form the distal cranial ganglia .
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become muscle cells .
trunk portion of the neural crest .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardical precursors laterally .
ventral somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton [ xao ]  .
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue consisting of loosely organized undifferentiated mesodermal cells that give rise to such structures as connective tissues ,  blood ,  lymphatics ,  bone ,  and cartilage [ xao ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that includes all dermal bones in the cranial skeleton [ zfa , modified ]  .
contributes to development of the cartilage of the larynx ,  laryngeal ,  pharyngeal ,  and soft palate muscles ,  superior parathyroid gland ,  and c - cells of the thymus
the 6th pharyngeal arch .contributes to the development of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the second pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the fourth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches  [ go:dph ]  .
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
an organ involved in reproduction
a female organ involved in reproduction
any sense organ that functions in  ( some )  detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of taste  ( go:0050912 )  .
septum that divides the ovary ,  the basal portion of a carpel or group of fused carpels ,  that encloses the ovule ( s )  [ go ]  .
one of the two embryological structures that give rise to the kidney  ( the other is the ureteric bud )  .
an epithelium that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a footplate .
an epithelium that is part of a otic placode  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from endoderm and lines the yolk sac .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesenchyme that is part of a amnion .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
an endothelium that is part of a trachea .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing ovary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from mesoderm and consists of mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pinna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a footplate .
a submucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the rectum .
a submucosa that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the pns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
a ganglion that is part of a central nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a midgut .
an epithelium that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pelvic appendage bud .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pectoral appendage bud .
an ectoderm that is part of a footplate .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pericardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any nerve that innervates the iris .
a nerve that is part of the trunk region of the body  ( not to be confused with a nerve trunk )  .
a nerve that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is located in a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the region of the forelimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
a bone that is connected via a shoulder joint  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a facial skeleton  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb region .
a bone that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ureteral branches of renal artery are small branches which supply the ureter .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the iinferior labial artery  ( inferior labial branch of facial artery )  arises near the angle of the mouth ;  it passes upward and forward beneath the triangularis and ,  penetrating the orbicularis oris ,  runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane .
an artery that is part of a thoracic cavity [ cjm ]  .
a vein that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the lower lip .
a vein that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a venule that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arteriole that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a cornea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trachea .
a blood vessel that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of the arterial system .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trachea .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hand  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ring - shaped cartilaginous structures that support the trachea
a skin gland that is part of a camera - type eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense connective tissue which contains predominantly elastic fibers and is found in the tunica media of the aorta wall .
the type of heart connective tissue found in the endocardial layer that consists mainly of elastic fibers .
an elastic tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a circulatory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
elastic tissue layer that lines a blood vessel layer .
elastic tissue that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the middle layer of the aorta wall ,  containing the smooth muscle layer and elastic fibers .
the innermost layer of the aorta ,  containing the endothelium and an inner elastic membrane .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdomen proper  ( excluding the pelvic cavity )  .
in anatomy ,  in the occipital bone ,  the foramen magnum is one of the several oval or circular apertures in the base of the skull ,  through which the medulla oblongata  ( an extension of the spinal cord )  enters and exits the skull vault .
the tissues that surround the organs that are present within the abdominal cavity .
passages external to the liver for the conveyance of bile .
passages within the liver for the conveyance of bile .
a vein arising from the splenic trabecular vein in the hilum of the spleen that drains into the portal vein .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
the major nerves supplying sympathetic innervation to the abdomen ,  including the greater ,  lesser ,  and lowest  ( or smallest )  splanchnic nerves that are formed by preganglionic fibers from the spinal cord which pass through the paravertebral ganglia and then to the celiac ganglia and plexuses and the lumbar splanchnic nerves carry fibers which pass through the lumbar paravertebral ganglia to the mesenteric and hypogastric ganglia .
a branch of the vagus nerve that supplies motor function and sensation to the larynx  ( voice box )  .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine that travels to the head and neck where it innervates skin and muscle .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
the part of the forelimb between pectoral region and the elbow ,  corresponding to the humerus .
the middle limb segment of the pelvic free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
a nerve that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle tissue that is part of the urethra .
any muscle organ that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skin of body that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of an autopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a neural tube .
in medicine ,  gonadal vein refers to the blood vessel that carrying blood away from the gonad  ( testis ,  ovary )  toward the heart .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a spinal cord .
a neural plate that develops_from a future spinal cord .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing gonad  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a ganglion .
an anatomical cavity that has the potential to develop into a coelemic cavity lumen .
the part of the coelom in the embryo between the somatopleuric and splanchnopleuric mesoderm ;  the principal body cavities of the trunk  ( thoracic ,  abdominal ,  and pelvic )  arise from this embryonic part of the coelom
connective ,  non - functional supportive framework of a biological cell ,  tissue ,  or organ .
a small endodermal thickening in the foregut adjacent to the transverse septum .
one of the skeletal muscles of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue in the trunk .
the part of the retina that contains neurons and photoreceptor cells [ go ]  .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
any endothelium that has the quality of being cylindrical  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
kidney mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the kidney [ go ]  .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
embryonic structure that develops into pancreatic bud .
the embryonic pancreas develops from two separate anlagen in the foregut epithelium ,  one dorsal and two ventral pancreatic buds [ pmid ]  .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the accessory pancreatic duct .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the major pancreatic duct .
a duct that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
a cartilage element of chondrocranium .
a cartilage element that is part of the cranial skeleton .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
the sensory system for the sense of touch and pain .
the anterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
the posterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
the slender connective tissue fiber in the extracellular matrix of skin tissue that is composed of microfibrils and amorphous elastin and is characterized by great elasticity
the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
the single layer of epithelial cells that lines the early neural tube and develops into the nervous system and into the neural crest cells
one of the fine terminal elements of the bile duct system ,  leaving the portal canal ,  and pursuing a course at the periphery of a lobule of the liver [ bto ]  .
the layer of undifferentiated ,  proliferating cells that line the neural tube lumen that is the immediate transformation of the germinal neuroepithelium
the layer of glia and differentiating neurons that forms as a second layer around the germinal neuroepithium ;  as this develops it comes to lie between the ventricular and marginal layers and includes the basal and alar plates .
the outermost layer of the neural tube that consists of axons from the developing mantle layer and will form the white matter
the region of the mantle layer of the neural tube that lies ventral to the sulcus limitans and contains primarily motor neurons and interneurons .
any of the veins that carries deoxygenated blood from a part of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
the subdivision of the face that includes the eye  ( eyeball plus adnexa such as eyelids )  and the orbit of the skull and associated parts of the face such as the eyebrows ,  if present
joint cavity shared by all the joints of the elbow .
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a muscle of the tympanic cavity that attaches to an auditory ossicle .
small cavity surrounding the bones of the middle ear .
a blood vessel that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an internal pocketing of pharyngeal endoderm that contacts a region of ectoderm  ( a pharyngeal cleft )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions with the pharyngeal arches .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
the optic vesicle is the evagination of neurectoderm that precedes formation of the optic cup [ go ]  .
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
the outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract
the outflow tract is the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the arteries
vein of heart that drains the myocardium
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
an embryonic group of progenitor cells that forms from an outpouching of the septum transversum near the venous pole of the heart and gives rise to the epicardium
a thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo ,  forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions .
the external genitalia are the outer sex organs ,  such as the penis or vulva in mammals
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue located in the wall of the aorta
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
the cortical collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex
nephrogenic mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the nephron
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells .
the nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the urothelium of the kidney pelvis
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the dorsal region of an animal .
a bone that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb zeugopod  ( lower arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb stylopod  ( upper arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod  ( lower leg )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pericardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a cone - like structure that is formed when myocardial progenitor cells of the heart field fuse at the midline .
dense connective tissue that separates the atria from the ventricles and provides physical support for the heart .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primitive streak is a structure that forms during the early stages of avian ,  reptilian and mammalian embryonic development [ wp ]  .
outermost layer of cells in the blastodermic vesicle ,  which will develop into the trophoblast layer and then contact the endometrium and take part in establishing the embryo's means of nutrition
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb .
the embryonic structure that gives rise to the corneal ectoderm
multilayered ectodermal region at the distal tip of a limb or fin bud necessary for the proper development of the underlying mesenchyme [ mp , modified ]  .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb or paired fin .
the first of the series of pharyngeal arches that develop into jaw bones or their homologs ,  and their associated nerves and arteries
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
blood vessel that is connected to the yolk sac .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer found between the substantia propria and the endothelial layer of the cornea [ mp ]  .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer ,  6 to 9 um thick ,  lying between the basal lamina of the outer layer of stratified epithelium and the substantia propria of the cornea ;  it is considered to be a basement membrane .
vascular network that is connected to the yolk sac .
a bone that is part of an appendage  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb .
an embryo at the neurula stage .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of skeletal muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a body wall  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg  /  thigh )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower leg or upper leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the musculature of the body in the pectoral girdle region .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
any collection of muscles that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the hip skeleton .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the shoulder skeleton .
the collection of muscles that are part of the larynx .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a interatrial septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a cardiac septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a myocardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
a kidney that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a kidney that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the arterial system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all arteries .
an artery of the systemic circulation ,  which is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart ,  to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
a structure ,  usually a circular muscle ,  that normally maintains constriction of a natural body passage or orifice and which relaxes as required by normal physiological functioning .
an endothelium that lines the blood vasculature .
the polygonal structure of the liver that consists of hepatocytes radiating outward from a hepatic vein
an anatomical wall that is part of an aorta ,  enclosing the luminal space .
the outermost layer of the aorta wall ,  containing connective tissue and collagen and elastic fibers
the membranous portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
the muscular portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
the raphe nuclei are thin plates of cells in and immediately adjacent to the sagittal plane .
the costocervical trunk arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery ,  behind the scalenus anterior on the right side ,  and medial to that muscle on the left side .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vena cava  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a depression or hollow in a bone [ wp ]  .
a transient fetal dilation of the distal  ( or cranial )  heart tube located where the arterial trunk joins the ventral roots of the aortic arches
an appendage that is part of an appendage girdle complex .
paired appendage that consists of the posterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pelvic girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
paired appendage that consists of the anterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pectoral girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
the jugular veins are veins that bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
a transverse unitary subdivision of the neural tube that shares a common dorsoventral structure  ( floor ,  basal ,  alar ,  and roof plates )  ,  but each having differential molecular identities and fates ;  they comprise the secondary prosencephalon ,  diencephalon  ( prosomeres )  ,  the midbrain  ( mesomeres )  ,  and the hindbrain  ( rhombomeres )  .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an organ subunit that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the gastrula stage .
a collecting duct of renal tubule that is part of a metanephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
skeletal element that consists of the scapula and the coracoid [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
dermis - derived entity that is made of skeletal tissue .
a gland that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primitive cartilagionous skeletal structure of the fetal skull that grows to envelop the rapidly growing embyonic brain .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
a bone that is part of a cranium .
any bone that is part of the lower jaw skeleton .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
a submucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
a lamina propria that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a cardiac ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
a mucosa that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
a mucous gland that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucous gland that is part of the skin .
a secretion that is part of a endocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a exocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the renal tubule luminar surfaces
an epithelium that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the kidney luminar surfaces
any epithelium that lines one of the bile ducts .
an epithelium that is part of a extrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a intrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle tissue in all or part of a hepatic duct .
an endothelium of artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
an endothelium that is part of the cardiovascular system .
a connective tissue that surrounds a skeletal muscle tissue .
a gland that is part of a eye .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the future body wall  -  underlies the ectoderm [ wp ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the inner  ( or splanchnic )  layer adheres to the endoderm ,  and with it forms the splanchnopleure [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the outer  ( or somatic )  layer becomes applied to the inner surface of the ectoderm ,  and with it forms the somatopleure .
a portion of the urogenital ridge which is the source of much of the urinary system [ wp ]  .
one of of the pair of folds derived from the cloacal folds which give rise to a portion of the external genitalia ;  in male embryos they close over the urethral plate and fuse to form the spongy  ( penile )  urethra and ventral aspect of the penis ,  not including the glans ;  failure of fusion of the urethral folds leads to hypospadias ;  in female embryos they fuse only anterior to the anus and form the labia minora [ mp ]  .
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
the mass of tissue made up of mesenchymal cells in the lung .
the fetal urogenital sinus  ( from which the prostate derives )  is a simple cylinder of stratified basal epithelium ,  surrounded by mesenchyme and positioned between the embryonic bladder and pelvic urethra
a neuron projection bundle that connects the retina or its analog in the eye with the brain .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the beginning of the intestines to the anus [ go  -  gut definition ]  .
an epithelium surrounding a gonad .
an epithelium surrounding an ovary .
a dilation of the duodenal papilla that is the opening of the juncture of the common bile duct and the main pancreatic duct .
one of the two small elevations on the mucosa of the duodenum ,  the major at the entrance of the conjoined pancreatic and common bile ducts and the minor at the entrance of the accessory pancreatic duct .
muscular valve that controls the flow of digestive juices  ( bile and pancreatic juice )  through the ampulla of vater into the second part of the duodenum .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a anal region .
a sphincter muscle surrounding the urethra .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
a submucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the urinary bladder .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a renal pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a female urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a middle ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lower lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of the tympanic cavity epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
an organ part that is part of a long bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external genitalia that is part of a female reproductive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organ that is part of a immune system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a hemolymphoid system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a hindbrain and adjacent_to a spinal cord .
the portion of the ureteric bud tube that contributes to the morphogenesis of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the portion of the ureteric bud that contributes to the morphogenesis of the ureter .
a hole in a tube [ go ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
an sweat gland placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the sweat gland bud [ go ]  .
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a mesonephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metanephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
an epithelium is a tissue that covers the internal or external surfaces of an anatomical structure [ go ]  .
any smooth muscle tissue that is part of a metanephros .
a metanephric nephron is the functional unit of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric cortical collecting duct is the portion of the metanephric collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex [ go ]  .
the metanephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the metanephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
a metanephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephric nephron ,  the functional part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the metanephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
a bud is a protrusion that forms from an epithelial sheet by localized folding .
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
the functional tissue of the central nervous system consisting of neurons and glial cells .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
any portion of the ducts that carry bile from the liver to the common bile duct .
an organ or element that is in the abdomen .
an organ or element that is part of the adbominal segment of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the dorsum of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ or element that is part of the pelvic region .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a larynx submucosa  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a valve that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a right lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a left lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endocardium that is part of a interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a bulbus cordis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a renal pelvis that is part of a metanephros .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a yolk sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that supplies the renal cortex .
artery that receives blood from the renal cortex [ mp ,  modified ] 
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata and a portion of the fourth ventricle ;  as well as the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  ,  vagus nerve  ( cn x )  ,  accessory nerve  ( cn xi )  ,  hypoglossal nerve  ( cn xii )  ,  and a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cn viii )  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
a pronephric nephron is the functional unit of the pronephros [ go ]  .
the pronephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the pronephric nephron and connects the filtration unit  ( glomerulus or glomus )  of the pronephros to the pronephric duct [ go ]  .
the endothelial lining of the endocardium .
an pulmonary artery endothelium is an epithelium that lines the pulmonary artery [ go ]  .
the collecting duct is the final common path through which urine flows before entering the ureter and then emptying into the bladder [ go ]  .
a nephron that is part of a mesonephros .
mesonephric mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the mesonephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of oral region .
a ventricular outflow tract is a portion of either the left ventricle or right ventricle of the heart through which blood passes in order to enter the great arteries .
an outflow tract that is part of a aorta .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the vagus nerve
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
a sex gland that is part of a female reproductive system .
the part of the digestive system that excludes the hepatobiliary system .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb or pectoral fin .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb or pelvic fin .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
vagal neural crest is adjacent to the first seven somites gives rise to both ganglionic and ectomesenchymal derivatives [ zfa ]  .
the dilated structure that is lined by endothelial cells and located at the arterial pole of the heart just above  ( distal to )  the truncus arteriosus in mammalian embryos ;  it is the primordial vascular channel from which the aortic arches  ( and eventually the dorsal aortae )  arise ;  the aortic sac is homologous to the ventral aorta of gill - bearing vertebrates
the jugular foramen is a large aperture in the base of the skull .
a vitelline vein that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
a vitelline vein that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a longitudinal groove in the neural tube wall that divides the neural tube into dorsal  ( alar )  and ventral  ( basal )  halves  ( dorsal receives input from sensory neurons ,  ventral effects motor functions )  ;  stretches from the mesencephalon caudad [ tmd ]  .
the paired veins that carry blood from the yolk sac back to the embryo
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglion .
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
a neural tube lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
cranial neural crest that gives rise to the facio - acoustic ganglion .
somite located in the head region ,  caudal to the otic vesicle
a pair of lateral diverticula just over the liver rudiment representing the primordia of the lungs ,  formed by the floor of the foregut just anterior to the liver diverticulum .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
any of the three veins including the common ,  external and internal iliac veins .
a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells bounded anteriorly by the capsule of the lens and posteriorly by the lens cortex .
arteries which arise from the abdominal aorta and distribute to most of the intestines .
a vein that returns blood from the intestines .
the cavity formed by the tubotympanic recess epithelium .
intrinsic membrane that arises from embryonic germ layers and grow to surround the developing embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a pylorus .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a left lung .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lens vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a optic eminence .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a footplate .
a venous system that is part of a hindbrain .
a mesoderm that has the potential to develop into a pronephros .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pectoral appendage bud mesenchyme .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pelvic appendage bud mesenchyme .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb or paired fin [ gilbert , modified ]  .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb .
the outermost layer of a blood vessel ,  composed mainly of fibrous tissue .
a tunica intima that is part of a artery .
an outermost connective tissue covering of an organ ,  vessel ,  or other structure [ wp ]  .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
the metanephros develops from the most caudal part of the nephrogenic cord that is itself derived from the intermediate plate mesoderm .
the initial renal anlage that develops from the most rostral part of the nephrogenic cord is termed the pronephros .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
nephric tubules  ( nephrons )  form embryonically along the nephric ridge .
any portion of the aorta including the ascending and descending aorta ,  and aortic arch or a portion of the aortic orifice of the left ventricle .
the dorsal aorta is a blood vessel in a single - pass circulatory system that carries oxygenated blood from the gills to the rest of the body .
in the circulatory system of animals ,  a portal venous system occurs when a capillary bed drains into another capillary bed through veins ,  without first going through the heart .
a bone tissue that is part of a long bone .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
cell condensation that is an aggregation of mesenchymal cells that are committed to differentiate into chondroblasts and chondrocytes .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme whose cells are committed to become chondroblasts .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
a groove that is situated between the 1st and 2nd pharyngeal arch .
an external pocketing of pharyngeal ectoderm that contacts a region of endoderm  ( a pharyngeal pouch )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions by the pharyngeal arches .
a bone that is part of the region of the hindlimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
a bone that is part of the manus skeleton .
a bone that is part of the pes skeleton
anatomical cluster that is located in the posterior region of the cranium and forms the margin of the foramen magnum and occipital condyles .
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
an outflow tract that is part of a cardiac atrium .
anteriosuperior ,  smooth - walled portion of the cavity of the right ventricle ,  beginning at the supraventricular crest and terminating in the pulmonary trunk
anterosuperior fibrous portion of the left ventricle that connects to the ascending aorta .
outflow part of atrium which consists of wall and cavity of the outflow part of right atrium and the tricuspid valve .
an outflow tract of atrium that is part of a left atrium .
a sheet of somatopleure that grows upward over the embryo and eventually meets in the midline enclosing the embryo ,  eventually giving rise to the amnion and chorion [ kardong ]  .
the laminar structure of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
the wall of the heart that separates the right atrium and left ventricle ;  and is located just above the septal cusp of the tricuspid valve
the paired arteries that carry blood to the yolk sac from the dorsal aorta
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
a collection of two or more connected limb segments .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod .
the mesonephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the mesonephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
the spiral septum that separates the truncus arteriosus into a ventral pulmonary trunk and the dorsal aorta [ mp ]  .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 that develop into the folds of the pinna and gradually shift upwards and backwards to their final position on the head .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
the membrane that covers the embryonic cloaca ,  formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm ;  the urorectal septum joins the cloacal membrane and divides it into an anal membrane and a urogenital membrane ;  the point where the urorectal septum intersects the cloacal membrane is the future site of the perineal body ;  proliferation of mesoderm and ectoderm around the cloacal membrane produces primordial tissues of the external genitalia in both sexes: the genital tubercle ,  genital folds ,  and genital swellings .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the foregut and midgut .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
a sac - like cavity ventral to the liver ,  lying in the sub - mesodermal space and closed by a thin sheet of ectodermal cells ,  from which the future gall bladder develops .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a iliac endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a ischial endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a ischial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
a midline cellular cord formed from the migration of mesenchymal cells from the primitive knot
the pair of depressions of thickened otic placode epithelium ,  that further develops into the otic vesicles
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a brainstem .
an artery that connects two larger arteries .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a zone of skin .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a female reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
a vasculature that is part of a kidney .
a tube in the kidney that collect and transport urine .
a tube that is part of a excretory system .
the pharynx is the part of the digestive system immediately posterior to the mouth [ go ]  .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
a urethral meatus that is part of a female urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a left ventricle of a heart .
a myocardium that is part of a right ventricle of a heart .
the pectinate line  ( anocutaneous line ,  dentate line ,  anorectal junction )  is a line which divides the upper 2 / 3rds and lower 1 / 3rd of the anal canal .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
exoskeleton or shell ,  including those of mollusks ,  turtles ,  insects and crustaceans .
an external ear that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
an external ear that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
anatomical cavity for the proximal articular surface of the proximal limb or fin element with the scapulocoracoid or equivalent structure .
a region of muscle in many organs in the vertebrate body ,  adjacent to the submucosa membrane .
a valve that is part of a vein .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a epithelium .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an autopodium region .
the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera ;  the limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm
an epithelium that is composed primarily of secretory cells .
loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a trachea .
a furrow or an incomplete tube .
endochondral bone that is dorsoventrally compressed and provides attachment site for muscles of the pectoral appendage .
a muscular coat that is part of a ureter .
the distalmost portion of the digestive tract ,  derived from the hindgut ,  and terminating with the anus .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the pes  ( foot ) 
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a handplate .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the manus  ( hand ) 
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a vasculature that is part of a liver .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a digestive tract .
an epithelium that is part of a lip .
an epithelium characterised by its most superficial layer consisting of squamous epithelial cells .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a stomach .
a glandular epithelium that lines the stomach .
any gland that is part of the digestive system .
simple columnar epithelium that constitutes the secretory part of a gland .
stomach mucosa that is lined with glandular epithelium and part of a stomach glandular region .
simple columnar epithelium made up of cells specialized to serve as sensory cells for the reception of external stimuli ,  as the sensory cells of the cochlea ,  vestibule ,  nasal mucosa ,  and tongue .
the epithelial cell layer containing the sensory hair cells and their associated sensory nerve terminals
an epithelium that is part of a pinna .
the stroma of the ovary is a peculiar soft tissue ,  abundantly supplied with blood vessels ,  consisting for the most part of spindle - shaped cells with a small amount of ordinary connective tissue .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
a capillary that is part of the coronary system .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that is the boundary between an anatomical structure and an anatomical substance ,  an anatomical space or the organism's environment .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the hyoid arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
a pharyngeal pouch that is between pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a midgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a hindgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a anal canal .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a colon .
a lamina propria that is part of a colonic mucosa .
a mesothelium that is part of a serous pericardium .
the structure from the trachea ,  bronchi ,  and bronchioles that forms the airways that supply air to the lungs .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a trunk neural crest .
a tunica media that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a vein .
a tunica intima that is part of a vein .
a tunica media that is part of a vein .
gray matter of the central nervous system which is a collection of clustered nuclei .
any of the nuclei that comprise the superior olivary complex  ( superior olive )  .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a trachea .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of an appendage .
skeletal subdivision consisting of the anterior appendicular limb skeleton ,  excluding the pectoral girdle .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic appendage region .
the rhombencephalon  ( or hindbrain )  is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the sinus venosus .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a endocardium .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a pronephric mesoderm .
a blood vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a vasculature that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a vasculature that is part of a chordate pharynx .
a vasculature that is part of a limb / fin .
a dense accumulation of exocrine glands in the pancreas often surrounding islets of langerhans .
a duct that collects and carries secretions of the exocrine pancreas to the intestine .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
portion of the dermis characterized by a well - arranged ,  plywood - like ,  collagenous network .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a paired limb or fin .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a nucleus of brain that spans a midbrain tegmentum .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
an epithelial tube that is open at one end only .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a collection of connected epithelial tubes with a single portal .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
a ring of smooth muscle cells whose contraction closes the opening of the ring .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
a thin ,  loose vascular connective tissue that makes up the membranes surrounding joints and the sheaths protecting tendons  ( particularly flexor tendons in the hands and feet )  where they pass over bony prominences .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a synovial joint .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
a neural nucleus that is part of a medulla oblongata .
the sensory trigeminal nerve nuclei are the largest of the cranial nerve nuclei ,  and extend through the whole of the midbrain ,  pons and medulla .
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
functional unit of the kidney that forms urine ,  consisting of two parts ,  the nephron and the collecting tubule .
region of the embryo into the area in which the kidney rudiment will develop .
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
the minute opening of a taste bud on the surface of the oral mucosa through which the gustatory hairs of the specialised neuroepithelial gustatory cells project .
a bone that is part of a reproductive organ .
a gland that is part of a epidermis .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
an organism subdivision that encompasses the region containing the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
a bone that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a bone that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a bone element or fused bone that is part of pelvic girdle .
a subdivision of a limb or fin skeleton consisting of bones which connects the upper limb or fin to the axial skeleton on each side .
skeletal subdivision consisting of a set of bones linking the axial series to the hindlimb zeugopodium and offering anchoring areas for hindlimb and caudal musculature .
bone element that arises as a result of intramembranous ossification .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a regular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
connective tissue that is dominated by collagen fibres organized into a definitive pattern  ( e .g . ,  parallel to one another )  ,  with comparatively fewer cells  ( mostly fibroblasts )  .
a bone that is part of a craniocervical region .
a skeletal joint that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a anatomical surface that is part of a cartilage element .
a bone that is hollow or contains many air cells ,  such as the mastoid process of the temporal bone [ tmd ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the pelvis .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
an endothelium that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an intestinal villus in the duodenum .
an epithelium that is part of a duodenum .
epithelium pertaining to the trachea and bronchi .
an embryonic structure that is derived from the inner cell mass and lies above the hypoblast and gives rise to the three primary germ layers
a limb segment that is part of a hindlimb .
a limb segment that is part of a forelimb .
any of the three large depressions in the posterior ,  middle ,  and anterior aspects of the floor of the cranial cavity
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
a head that is part of a embryo .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
an out - pocket of thickened ventral foregut epithelium adjacent to the developing heart .
the smooth muscle layer of the stomach wall that functions to churn and mix food and gastric secretions as well as to move food along the digestive tract to the intestines
the short narrow part of the stomach extending from the pyloric antrum to the pyloric sphincter
the gastric glands in the pyloric region of the stomach ;  the pyloric glands secrete mucin ,  which coats the stomach and protects it ,  and hormones such as gastrin and enkephalin [ mp ]  .
any skeletal muscle organ in the hypodermis  /  superficial fascia
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all pulmonary arteries and all pulmonary veins .
subdivision of endoskeleton derived from pharyngeal arches
a pharyngeal arch that is posterior to the hyoid arch .
skeletal element that forms superficially in the organism ,  usually in association with the ectoderm [ vsao ]  .
bone element that is adjacent to the notochord .
a parenchyma that is part of a lung .
a bone that is part of a forelimb region .
the functional tissue of the kidney ,  consisting of the nephrons .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
any portion of tissue that surrounds a urethra .
an artery that supplies blood to the urinary bladder .
vein that drains left lung and returns blood to the heart .
vein that drains right lung and returns blood to the heart .
a gonad prior to differentiating into a definitive testis or ovary .
rostralmost epibranchial placode .associated with 1st branchial cleft .
epibranchial placode between geniculate and nodose .
cranial ganglion which develops from an epibranchial placode .
endocardium that is part of the right atrium .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
the limb epidermis is the outer epithelial layer of the limb ,  it is a complex stratified squamous epithelium .
a nephric duct is a tube that drains a primitive kidney [ go ]  .
a thin fold of ectoderm and endoderm that separates the pharyngeal pouches from the pharyngeal clefts in a developing embryo .
a pharyngeal membrane that separates the first pharyngeal cleft from the first pharyngeal pouch .
mesenchyme that is part of a otic placode .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
mesenchyme that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
an epithelium that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
anatomical region that surrounds the otic vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindgut .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trachea .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing middle ear .
an endoderm that is part of a anal region .
mesenchyme that is part of a handplate .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a submucosa that is part of a intestine .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future spinal cord .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future medulla oblongata .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future metencephalon .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future myelencephalon .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing left lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing right lung .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive midbrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive hindbrain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a midbrain .
bilateral mesenchymal mesoderm parallel and immediately adjacent to the neural tube / notochord ;  it generates a subset of extra - ocular ,  and other head ,  muscles .
one of the two epithelia which make up the tympanic membrane  ( along with the fibrous layer ) 
a basement membrane that is part of a nephron tubule .
a basement membrane that is part of a bronchus .
a basement membrane that is part of a trachea .
an artery that supplies oxygenated blood to the ear .
nucleus located in the midbrain .
nucleus located within the hindbrain .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a embryonic cloaca .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a rectum .
any endocardium that is part of the right ventricle of the heart .
any endocardium that is part of the left ventricle of the heart .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a stomodeum .
the primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing limbs ,  autopods and digits ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to limb connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with myotome cells .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing pancreas
a ganglion that is part of a abdominal segment of trunk .
a renal tubule is a tube that filters ,  re - absorbs and secretes substances to rid an organism of waste and to play a role in fluid homeostasis .
the many - lobed berry cluster of cells that is the terminous of a gland where the secretion is produced is acinar in form .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a primitive urogenital sinus .
mesenchyme that surrounds primitive urogenital sinus .
an epithelium that is part of a embryonic cloaca .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
a division of the stomach .
outer portion of the renal cortex .
a renal ,  cortical lobule ,  consisting of the ascending or descending limbs of the loop of henle or of the collecting tubules ;  medullary rays are regions where parallel arrays of straight tubules travel perpendicular to the capsule and extend from the cortex to the medulla .
an artery that supplies a renal lobe .
the interlobar veins are veins of the renal circulation which drain the renal lobes .
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the majority of the mesodermal component of the right ventricle ,  arterial pole  ( outflow tract )  and venous pole  ( inflow tract )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
a portion of an organ ,  such as the liver ,  lung ,  breast ,  or brain .
the portion of a kidney consisting of a renal medullary pyramid and the renal cortex above it [ mp ]  .
the portion of a renal lobe consisting of nephrons grouped around a single medullary ray and draining into a single collecting duct ;  human kidneys have multilobular ,  multipapillary architecture while mice and rats have unilobular ,  unipapillary kidneys
an anatomical wall that is part of a ureter .
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the epithelium of the ureter
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
cranial ectodermal placode with potential to develop into a component of the nervous system ,  such as nerves or ganglia .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a urinary bladder .
an epithelium that is part of a pancreatic duct .
the junction between the ureter and the renal pelvis of the kidney
the valve - like structure found at the site of entry of the ureter into the urinary bladder ,  normally displays an oblique angulation through the detrusor to avoid reflux of urine up the ureters and the kidney
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
a small cluster of cells of various types which form a discrete structure ,  largely delimited by a morphological boundary and whose components work together to make the whole structure capable of a specific function .
the dorsal portion of the embryonic first endodermal pharyngeal pouch ;  it develops into the middle ear cavity .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
an organ of the digestive tract that is capable of retaining and storing food
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch maxillary component .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
an anatomical space with at least one opening to another space or the exterior .
a portion of the external acoustic meatus epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
the intermediate fibrous layer of the tympanic membrane .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
an extrahepatic bile duct that has the potential to develop into a common hepatic duct .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a metencephalon .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a myelencephalon .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a facial nucleus .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a superior salivatory nucleus .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the autopod  ( e .g .
any portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of the conducting system of heart or the purkinje fibers .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and that release hormones in response to neural stimuli
a mucous secretion that is produced by glands in the epidermis .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a blood vessel .
an urethral gland that is part of a female urethra .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
the paired arterial structures of the embryo that supplies each developing somite via efferent segmental arteries ;  the dorsal aortae articulate with the umbilical arteries ,  which return mixed blood to the villi of the chorion for reoxygenation
one of the laterally paired arteries that supply the gonads .
an anatomical boundary that corresponds to some physical discontinuity .
apparatus located between the lungs and the buccal cavity .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
an exocrine gland whose secretions are excreted via exocytosis from secretory cells into an epithelial - walled duct or ducts and thence onto a bodily surface or into the lumen ;  the gland releases its product and no part of the gland is lost or damaged .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
an endothelium that is part of a sclera .
a stroma that is part of a sclera .
mesenchyme surrounding the developing optic cup which develops into the sclera .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
developing anatomical structure that develops into the eyeball and associated structures .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb / fin bud .
an epithelium that is part of a handplate .
mesenchyme that is part of a extraembryonic membrane .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes indirect development and includes elements that develop as a replacement or substitution of other elements or tissues .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes direct development and includes elements that either develop in association with the basement membrane of the ectoderm or are homologous with such elements ;  includes dermatocranium ,  components of the appendicular skeleton ,  teeth and tooth - like elements of the oropharynx ,  and integumentary elements .
the smallest anatomical unit of the lung ,  measuring 0 .50 to 2 .00 cm in diameter .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
mesenchyme that develops_from a somatopleure .
mesenchyme that develops_from a splanchnopleure .
an organ cavity that is part of a urethra .
the integrated unit  ( of the eye )  that consists of the conjunctiva ,  the corneal surface ,  and the ocular mucosal adnexa including the lid margins and the meibomian gland openings ,  the lacrimal glands and the lacrimal drainage system ,  all which are critical to maintain ocular surface integrity and provide protection from external antigens and pathogenic microorganisms .
an orifice that is part of a lower urinary tract .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
a bone that is shaped as a broad flat plate and composed of two thin layers of compact tissue enclosing between them a variable quantity of cancellous tissue ,  which is the location of red bone marrow .
a simple columnar epithelium that looks stratified but is not ,  because its cells are arranged with their nuclei at different levels .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
a vessel of the microcirculature ,  lying between the arterioles and venules ;  includes capillaries  ( blood and lymphatic )  ,  metarterioles and arteriovenous anastomoses .
an organ cavity that surrounded_by a bone .
an epithelial tube that is fated to become a nephron .
the metanephric cortex is the outer region of the metanephros [ go ]  .
anatomical cluster which give rise to mature mesonephric nephrons .
a primitive nephron that is part of a metanephros .
cluster of cells comprising a portion of tissue which gives rise to new mesonephric nephrons .
an appendage segment that is part of a limb / fin .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an forelimb zeugopod region .
an organism subdivision that includes both an appendage and its associated girdle region .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pectoral appendicular skeleton and the pectoral girdle .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pelvic appendicular skeleton and the pelvic girdle .
skeletal subdivision that is a segment of the limb skeleton .
a iliac endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the subdivision of the skeleton of either the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb zeugopod region .
a bone that is part of an appendage girdle complex  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a pectoral complex .
a bone that is part of a pelvic complex .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along an axis perpedicular to the main body anterior - posterior axis .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of cartilage tissue .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of pre - cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
muscles of the pelvic girdle ,  hindlimb or pelvic fin .
a muscle of a pectoral girdle ,  pectoral fin or anterior limb .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
any muscle organ that is part of either the head or the neck .
a cartilage element that is part of a splanchnocranium .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a right pelvic girdle region .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a left pelvic girdle region .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
a synovial joint that is part of a pelvic girdle region .
a synovial joint that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a skeletal joint that connects a laryngeal cartilage .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
any synovial joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the kidney and the ureters .
gland of the lamina epithelialis mucosae which perforate the lamina muscularis ,  with their adenomeres located in the submucosal connective tissue .
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a bone that is part of a neurocranium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the gastrointestinal system
a lamina propria that is part of a large intestine .
a muscle layer that is part of a large intestine .
a muscle layer that is part of a small intestine .
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
synovial sac which surrounds parts of one or more tendons .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the appendicular skeleton plus associated joints .
a bone that is part of a autopod region .
the part of the trunk that is in the dorsum [ cjm ]  .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
a tube lumen that is part of a mesonephric duct .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb or fin .
proximal element of a free limb skeleton consisting of the femur and humerus in the forelimb stylopodium and hindlimb stylopodium respectively [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
section of the forelimb skeleton located between the stylopodium and the autopodium .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
cartilage tissue that is not mineralized .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
limb extensor that runs from ilium to femur .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
an anatomical space that is part of a bone of lower jaw .
a cranial nerve nucleus that is associated with a vagus nerve .
a neural nucleus that is part of the spinal cord .
a nerve that is part of a head .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
an anatomical junction that divides and overlaps with and atrium and a ventricle in the heart .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
an acinus that is part of a exocrine gland .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of aorta tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of pulmonary tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of tendon tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of corneal stroma that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
epimysium is a layer of connective tissue which ensheaths the entire muscle .
masses of developing blood cells attached to endothelium in the yolk sac
a region of the stomach that is lined with glandular epithelium .
a hepatic vein that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic vein that is part of a right lobe of liver .
an articular capsule that is part of the glenohumeral joint .
the aggregate of the coelemic cavity lumen plus the membranes that line the lumen .
the cavity within a myotome
bone that forms as a replacement of another structural tissue .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a bronchus .
anatomical system that consists of the integumental system plus all mucosae and submucosae .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a stomach .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
network of tubes that carries blood through the distensible musculomembranous organ that serves to collect and store urine excreted by the kidneys [ mp ] 
external opening or orifice of the urethra through which urine and seminal fluid  ( in males only )  leave the body ;  in males the meatus presents as a vertical slit normally positioned at the tip of glans penis ;  in females the meatus is located between the clitoris and the vagina in the vulvular vestibule of the female genitalia [ mp ]  .
the usually crescent - shaped opening of the urinary bladder into the urethra ,  placed at the anteroinferior angle  ( apex )  of the urinary bladder trigone
an artery that originates from the abdominal aorta
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
one of the pair of mesenchymal swellings  ( folds )  located on either side of the cloacal membrane during the indifferent stage of embryonic development ;  cranial to the cloacal membrane the folds unite to form the genital tubercle ;  caudally the folds are subdivided into urogenital folds anteriorly and anal folds posteriorly
a mucosa that is part of a urethra .
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
an artery of the neck
the deep cervical artery  ( profunda cervicalis )  is an artery of the neck .
a bone element that is part of a jaw region .
a muscle layer that is part of an intestine .
a nerve plexus that is part of a sympathetic nervous system .
a layer of tissue between the muscularis and serosa .
a muscular coat that is part of a urinary bladder .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system venous blood vessel .
a layer of microvilli ,  thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments [ go , modified ] 
a microvillus layer that is striated and found in the intestine .
the sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye ;  the sclera is opaque ,  and constitutes the posterior five - sixths of the tunic ;  the cornea is transparent ,  and forms the anterior sixth .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a cloaca .
the opening of the cloacal chamber to the outside of the organism .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a terminal part of digestive tract .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pectoral complex  -  i .e .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic complex  -  i .e .
a gland that is part of a cloaca .
a mucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cloaca .
a submucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a cloaca .
a muscular coat that is part of a duodenum .
a muscular coat that is part of a colon .
a muscular coat that is part of a anal canal .
a anatomical junction that connects a stomach and connects a duodenum .
a mucosa that is part of a gastroduodenal junction .
a vein that is part of a abdomen .
a vein that drains a lip .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
a gland that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
the layer of the ovarian stroma lying immediately beneath the tunica albuginea ,  composed of connective tissue cells and fibers ,  among which are scattered primary and secondary  ( antral )  follicles in various stages of development ;  the cortex varies in thickness according to the age of the individual ,  becoming thinner with advancing years ;  included in the follicles are the cumulus oophorus ,  membrana granulosa  ( and the granulosa cells inside it )  ,  corona radiata ,  zona pellucida ,  and primary oocyte ;  the zona pellucida ,  theca of follicle ,  antrum and liquor folliculi are also contained in the follicle ;  also in the cortex is the corpus luteum derived from the follicles .
the secretory unit of a serous gland .
the precursor of the urethra
anatomical cavity that is the lumen of the skull and contains the brain .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a cloaca .
the space that surrounds an organism .
the anatomical space that is enclosed by a stomach .
a anatomical cavity that is part of a ear vesicle .
a epithelium that is part of a intestinal villus .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone of the skull .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
vascular endothelium found in blood vessels of the blood - brain - barrier .
vascular endothelium found in colon blood vessels .
epithelium lining the exocrine pancreas .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
a tubular passage that extends from the primitive pit into the head process during the early stages of embryonic development in mammals .
fluid contained within the notochordal canal
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
great vessels is a term used to refer collectively to the large vessels that bring blood to and from the heart .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the simple cuboidal epithelium lining the lumen of kidney collecting ducts .
any member of the network of tubes that return blood from the renal tissues to the systemic circulation .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
the deep auricular artery often arises in common with the anterior tympanic artery .
a unilaminar epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a anal region .
a duct that is located between lobules ,  within the thin connective tissue septa that separate lobules .
the secretory unit of a mucous gland .
a duct that is located within a lobule ,  with no more connective tissue intervening between ducts and secretory units  ( i .e . ,  acini or tubules )  than between adjacent secretory units .
a duct that is located between lobes ,  within conspicuous ,  thick connective tissue septa that separate lobes .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive midbrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive spinal cord
any muscle organ that is part of a cloaca .
any collection of muscles that is part of the forelimb stylopod region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic complex .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral complex .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral appendage  ( forelimb or pectoral fin )  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic appendage  ( hindlimb or pelvic fin )  .
a muscle organ that consists of skeletal muscle tissue ensheathed in epimysium ,  that develops from myotome and that is innervated by some somatic motor neuron .
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
a forelimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a hindlimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a femur bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a humerus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a iliac bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a ischial bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a scapula bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a limb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a endochondral element that is part of a autopod region .
a autopod endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
visceral intrapericardial fat contiguous with the myocardial surface .
a gland that is typically found in or near the orbital region ,  in or around either the medial or lateral canthi ,  and is typically associated with secretions onto the eyeball or associated ducts .
an eye consisting of multiple light - sensing organs
a region of somite adjacent to presomitic mesoderm .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_left_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_right_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a mesenchyme that is part of a urethra .
a valve that is part of a ureter .
a hepatic artery that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic artery that is part of a right lobe of liver .
hat part of the duodenal wall traversed by the ductus choledochus ,  ductus pancreaticus ,  and ampulla .
a epithelium that is part of a anal canal .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
a zone of skin that is part of a autopod region .
a blood vessel that is part of a liver .
a epithelium that is part of a ear .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a middle ear .
a epithelium that is part of a external ear .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
a lamina propria that is part of a duodenum .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
a stroma that is part of a liver .
is the sensory system for the sense of hearing .
luminal space of the right ventricle of the heart .
a anatomical space that is part of a duodenum .
luminal space of the left atrium of the heart .
luminal space of the left ventricle of the heart .
a epithelium that is part of a female urethra .
luminal space of the right atrium of the heart .
the external part of the developing pharynx that is made of ectoderm .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is part of gray matter .
mucus produced in the respiratory tract .
any mucus produced by a mucosae of the respiratory system .
an roughly circular indentation in a surface .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 1 that develop into the tragus ,  crus of the helix ,  and helix .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 2 that develop into the concha ,  antihelix and antitragus .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
the joint that is formed by the union of the humerus ,  the scapula  ( or shoulder blade )  ,  and the clavicle  ( or collarbone )  .
epithelium lining the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
any muscle tissue of the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
the dorsal part of the body wall
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a viscus that is part of a abdomen .
a muscle layer that is part of the rectum
any portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of the rectum
a renal pelvis that is part of a left ureter .
a renal pelvis that is part of a right ureter .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower lip .
a stroma that is part of a pancreas .
a boundary delimiting a rhombomere .
any portion of submucosa that lines the digestive tract .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
a muscular coat that is part of a digestive tract .
foramen that allows the passge of the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cranial nerve ix )  .
situated just caudal to the acetabulum ,  the foramen is bound dorsally by the illium and ventrally by the ischium .
a z - shaped canal running through the temporal bone from the internal acoustic meatus to the stylomastoid foramen .
the anatomical space within the intestine .
muscle innervated by the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
a membranous sac in animals that serves as the receptacle of a liquid or contains gas .
adipose tissue which is located throughout skeletal muscle and is responsible for the marbling seen in certain cuts of beef .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
an exocrine gland that is part of a integumental system .
the spinal accessory nucleus lies within the cervical spinal cord  ( c1 - c5 )  in the ventral horn .
a blood vessel that supplies or drains an ear .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a reproductive gland .
single layer of a laminar structure ,  identified by different density ,  arrangement or size of cells and processes arranged in flattened layers or lamina [ cumbo ]  .
serous membrane layer that is adjacent to and lines an organ .
serous membrane layer that lines to a body cavity .
a specific region of the foregut into the area in which the lung will develop .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
any of the cranial nerves ,  or their central nervous system analogs  ( the optic tract ,  the epiphyseal tract )  .
a taste bud that is located external to the digestive tube ,  on the head or body ,  as found in species such as goldfish .
a taste bud that is located on a lip .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the head .
a taste bud that is located in the pharynx .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the trunk .
the autonomic nerve is a small nerve which carries postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons from the zygomaticotemporal nerve ;  a branch of the maxillary nerve ,  to the lacrimal nerve ;  a branch of the ophthalmic nerve .
any substance in the body or expelled from the body that is in a gaseous state .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of air .
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
endocardium that is part of the left atrium .
any of the muscles that are responsible for moving the scapula .
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a cluster of cells ,  largely surrounded by a morphological boundary .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
the epithelial layer covering the biliary system .
any organ component layer that consists of smooth muscle tissue .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any material entity that is located in the digestive tract .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
the organ of hearing located on the right side of the head .
the organ of hearing located on the left side of the head [ ncit , modified ]  .
the part of the circulatory system that lies within the subcutaneous tissue layers close to the surface of the skin .
any of the veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the subcutaneous tissue layers .
the part of the circulatory system that lies deep beneath the subcutaneous tissue layers away from the surface of the skin .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood far beneath the skin usually accompanying an artery .
any chamber of the left side of the heart
any chamber of the right side of the heart
the parts of the orbital region that are outside of the the eyeball ,  including the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva
any nerve that innervates the larynx .
any nerve that innervates the pinna .
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
a muscle layer that is part of the sigmoid colon
the sum of epicardial and paracardial fat deposits .
fat deposits in the mediastinum outside the parietal pericardium  .
any fat deposit surrounding a visceral organ .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdominal segment of the trunk ,  which encompasses the abdomen proper plus pelvic cavity .
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
an anatomical junction that is between the sigmoid colon and rectum .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
a bodily fluid that is located in the coelom .
any gland that is part os the respiratory system .
a notochord that has persisted beyond the embryonic stage .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
any synovial joint that connects auditory ossicles .
the zygomaticotemporal nerve or zygomaticotemporal branch  ( temporal branch )  is derived from the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of aorta .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
a mucosa that is part of a lip region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper tract of the renal system .
wall of organ which has as its parts the endocardium ,  myocardium  ,  epicardium ,  and the cardiac septum ,  surrounded by the pericardial sac proper and is continuous with the walls of the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
cartilage which is part of the axial skeleton .
non neural ectoderm that surrounds the presumptive neural plate and gives rise to neurogenic placodes .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the limb integument .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
an anatomical surface that is part of a bone
mesenchyme that is part of a forelimb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a hindlimb bud .
left part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
right part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
a forelimb that is on the right side of a pectoral complex .
a forelimb that is on the left side of a pectoral complex .
a hindlimb that is on the right side of a pelvic complex .
a hindlimb that is on the left side of a pelvic complex .
a state of being ,  an external or environmental factor or a treatment observed or administered prior to or concurrent with an investigative procedure such as an assessment of a morphological or physiological state or property in a single individual or sample or in a group of individuals or samples ,  especially a state ,  factor or treatment which has the potential to influence the outcome of such an assessment .
the state of being involved in some action ,  either physical or mental .
a state in which the organism is not exhibiting any physical exertion .
the process of ablating or extracting an organ ,  gland or other body part from an organism prior to ,  or in the process of ,  an experiment being performed on the organism .
any insertion of a tissue ,  material or device into the body using a procedure involving incision into the body .
action in which a part of the body or whole body is involved in movement .
any process involving manual and instrumental techniques for incision or excision of a part of an organism to investigate and / or treat a pathological condition .
the resection or complete surgical removal of a nerve ,  any of the cordlike structures that convey impulses between the central nervous system and one or more parts of the body ,  and that each consist of an outer connective tissue sheath surrounding a bundle of conductive fibers .
surgical transection or severing of an axon ,  the process of a neuron capable of conducting action potentials or self - propagating nerve impulses away from the cell body .
x ventral_to y iff x is further along the dorso - ventral axis than y ,  towards the front .
a carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group 2 -  ( 4 - { [ 5 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) pyridin - 2 - yl ] oxy}phenoxy ) propanoic acid with the hydroxy group of butan - 1 - ol .
a 6 -  ( dimethylamino )  - 4 , 4 - diphenylheptan - 3 - one that has  ( r )  - configuration .
a monocarboxylic acid that is 2 - phenoxypropanoic acid in which the phenyl group is substituted at the para position by a  ( 6 - chloroquinoxalin - 2 - yl ) oxy group .
an ethyl ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 2 - {4 -  [  ( 6 - chloroquinoxalin - 2 - yl ) oxy ] phenoxy}propanoic acid with ethanol .
a secondary amino compound that is ammonia in which nitrogen is substituted by a 1 -  ( 4 - methoxy - 3 - sulfamoylphenyl ) propan - 2 - yl group and a 2 -  ( 2 - ethoxyphenoxy ) ethyl group .
any fatty alcohol in which the hydroxy group is attached to a methylene  ( ch2 )  group .
cyclobutane and its derivatives formed by substitution .
a dicarboxylate resulting from deprotonation of both carboxy groups of kainic acid ,  and protonation of its amine group .
any fatty acid anion containing a ring composed of carbon atoms .
a member of the class of phenylureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by two methyl groups while the other is substituted by a phenyl group which carries two unspecified groups at positions 3 and 4 of the phenyl ring .
any primary fatty alcohol with a chain length less than 6 carbons .
a chelator that is any compound containing a ligand  ( typically organic )  which is able to form a bond to a central copper atom at two or more points .
any octanoid that is derived from jasmonate .
a fatty alcohol consisting of a chain of 3 to greater than 27 carbon atoms in which a hydroxy group is attached to a saturated carbon atom different from the terminal carbons .
a substance which is poisonous to fish and is primarily used to eliminate dominant species of fish in water .
a 6 -  ( dimethylamino )  - 4 , 4 - diphenylheptan - 3 - one that has  ( s )  - configuration .
a ketone that is heptan - 3 - one substituted by a dimethylamino group at position 6 and two phenyl groups at position 4 .
any oligosaccharide ,  polysaccharide or their derivatives consisting of monosaccharides or monosaccharide derivatives linked by glycosidic bonds .
any member of the class of benzoates in which the benzene ring is substituted by at least one chloro group .
any member of the class of benzoic acids in which the benzene ring is substituted by at least one chloro group .
an aliphatic alcohol consisting of a chain of 3 to greater than 27 carbon atoms .
a chemically diverse class of peptides that exhibit antimicrobial properties .
an inorganic sodium salt having hydrogensulfite as the counterion .
a subclass of polyketides having an octahydrotetracene - 2 - carboxamide skeleton ,  substituted with many hydroxy and other groups .
a polymer composed of repeating acetoxyethylene units .
any nutrient required in large quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates beta - adrenergic receptors .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates alpha - adrenergic receptors .
a gout suppressant that acts directly on the renal tubule to increase the excretion of uric acid ,  thus reducing its concentrations in plasma .
a drug used for its effect on the kidneys' regulation of body fluid composition and volume .
solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  acceptor .
self - ionizing solvent possessing both characteristics of bronsted acids and bases .
any compound that exhibits antagonist activity at the mu - opioid receptor
a macromolecule composed of repeating  - chr - ch2 -  units .
a glycerol compound having one of three possible substituent groups  -  either acyl ,  alkyl ,  or alk - 1 - enyl  -  at each of the three possible positions sn - 1 ,  sn - 2 or sn - 3 .
a tertiary amino compound that is 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenylethylamine in which the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen are replaced by a methyl group and a 4 - cyano - 4 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl )  - 5 - methylhexyl group .
a member of the class of 3 -  ( 3 , 4 - substituted - phenyl )  - 1 , 1 - dimethylureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by a 3 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl group while the other is substituted by two methyl groups .
an acyl chloride consisting of benzene in which a hydrogen is replaced by an acyl chloride group .
a carbamate ester that is valinamide in which one of the hydrogens attached to the amide nitrogen is replaced by a 1 -  ( p - tolyl ) ethyl group and the alpha - amino group has been converted to the corresponding isopropyl carbamate .
a monocarboxylic acid that is propanoic acid substituted by a 4 - { [ 5 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) pyridin - 2 - yl ] oxy}phenoxy group at position 2 .
an  epoxide that is oxirane substituted by a 2 - chlorophenyl ,  4 - fluorophenyl and a 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl groups .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
a somatic cell located in skeletal muscle .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to visible spectrum radiation .
an exposure to organic molecular entity .
an exposure to organic cyclic compound .
an exposure to methotrexate .
an exposure to corticosteroid .
an exposure to lipid .
an exposure to carbon monoxide .
an exposure to chemical entity .
an exposure to steroid hormone .
an exposure to glucocorticoid .
an exposure to oxygen molecular entity .
an exposure to formaldehyde .
an exposure to transition element molecular entity .
an exposure to biological role .
an exposure to application .
an exposure to chemical role .
an exposure to alkylating agent .
an exposure to drug .
an exposure to herbicide .
an exposure to hormone .
an exposure to mitochondrial respiratory - chain inhibitor .
an exposure to mutagen .
an exposure to mycotoxin .
an exposure to neurotransmitter .
an exposure to pesticide .
an exposure to toxin .
an exposure to molecular messenger .
an exposure to antimicrobial agent .
an exposure to inhibitor .
an exposure to vasodilator agent .
an exposure to ec 1 .9 .3 .1  ( cytochrome c oxidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to bronsted acid .
an exposure to disinfectant .
an exposure to agonist .
an exposure to p450 inhibitor .
an exposure to probe .
an exposure to genotoxin .
an exposure to carcinogenic agent .
an exposure to allergen .
an exposure to neurotoxin .
an exposure to ligand .
an exposure to biomarker .
an exposure to signalling molecule .
an exposure to ec 3 .5 .1 .4  ( amidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to environmental contaminant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to temperature of environmental material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to temperature of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of temperature of air .
an exposure event involving alcohol consumption
an exposure to aflatoxin .
an exposure to organochlorine compound .
an exposure to cadmium molecular entity .
an exposure to mercury molecular entity .
an exposure event involving occupation
an exposure to chloroacetic acid .
an exposure to steroid .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to quality .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to qualitative .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to process quality .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to physical object quality .
an exposure event involving automotive occupations
an exposure event involving http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / ons_0000094
an exposure to glucose mixed in food productfoodon product type .
an exposure to fructose mixed in food productfoodon product type .
an exposure to sucrose mixed in food productfoodon product type .
an exposure to protein mixed in food productfoodon product type .
an exposure to monosaccharide mixed in food productfoodon product type .
an exposure to cholesterol mixed in food productfoodon product type .
an exposure to triglyceride mixed in food productfoodon product type .
an exposure to low - density lipoprotein mixed in food productfoodon product type .
an exposure to high - density lipoprotein mixed in food productfoodon product type .
an exposure to lipid mixed in food productfoodon product type .
an exposure to paraquat mixed in air .
an exposure to paraquat mixed in liquid water .
an exposure to ddt mixed in air .
an exposure to ddt mixed in soil .
an exposure to ddt mixed in liquid water .
an exposure event involving nicotine consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving ethanol consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving nicotine smoking behavior
an exposure event involving nicotine cigarette smoking behavior
an exposure event involving nicotine cigar smoking behavior
an exposure event involving cannabis sativa consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving morphinane alkaloid consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving cocaine consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving methamphetamine consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure event involving heroin consumption of an addictive substance
an exposure to inhaled corticosteroid agent therapy via inhalation .
an exposure to glycemic agent therapy via ingestion .
an exposure to anticoagulant agent therapy via ingestion .
an exposure to pharmacotherapy via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159 .
an exposure event involving nicotine consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving ethanol consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving nicotine smoking behavior via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving nicotine cigarette smoking behavior via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving nicotine cigar smoking behavior via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving morphinane alkaloid consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving cocaine consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving methamphetamine consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
an exposure event involving heroin consumption of an addictive substance via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to layer .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of salt in liquid water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of salt in liquid water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of salt in soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of salt in soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of methane in air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of methane in air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of glucose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of fructose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of sucrose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of protein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of monosaccharide in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of cholesterol in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of triglyceride in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of low - density lipoprotein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of high - density lipoprotein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of glucose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of fructose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of sucrose in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of protein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of monosaccharide in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of cholesterol in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of triglyceride in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of low - density lipoprotein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of high - density lipoprotein in obsolete food product .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to environmental disposition .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510001 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510004 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510002 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510005 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510010 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510011 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510012 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510013 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510014 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510017 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510019 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510020 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510021 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510022 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510040 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510041 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510024 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510028 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510026 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510027 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510030 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510034 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510035 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510025 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to environmental system .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to ultrafine respirable suspended particulate matter via inhalation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to aerosol via inhalation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to red meat  ( eurofir )  via ingestion .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to environmental system process happening in route of the receptor .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to air pollution happening in http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159 of the receptor .
an exposure to steroid via ingestion .
an exposure to antimony molecular entity via ingestion .
an exposure to arsenic molecular entity via ingestion .
an exposure to cadmium molecular entity via ingestion .
an exposure to mercury molecular entity via ingestion .
an exposure to food colouring via ingestion .
an exposure to flavouring agent via ingestion .
an exposure to polycyclic hydrocarbon via http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / exo_0000159 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of environmental condition .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to coal power plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to fossil fuel power plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to mine .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to wooden building floor .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to concrete building floor .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to radiation shielding disposition .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to high temperature environment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to gas power station .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to power plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to geothermal power plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to nuclear power plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to solar power station .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to factory .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to waste treatment plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to wastewater treatment plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to agricultural wastewater treatment plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to industrial wastewate treatment plant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to extreme high temperature environment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to high pressure environment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of weather .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to construction .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to storm surge .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to icestorm .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to tornado .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to waterspout .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to flash flood .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to rain .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to freezing rainfall .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to thunderstorm .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to flood .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to tropical storm .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to the condition of air conditioning unit .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to abattoir .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to farm .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to hospital .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to laboratory facility .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to office .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to restaurant .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to shop .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to water - based rainfall .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to landspout .
an exposure to medical action .
an exposure to pulmonary antihypertensive agent therapy .
an exposure to dyslipidemic agent therapy .
an exposure to blood glucose regulator therapy .
an exposure to therapeutic insulin treatment .
an exposure to sex hormone modifying agent therapy .
an exposure to estrogen modifying agent therapy .
an exposure to platelet aggregation inhibitor agent therapy .
an exposure to antiarrhythmic agent therapy .
an exposure to antipsychotic agent therapy .
an exposure to calcium channel blocking agent therapy .
an exposure to nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory agent therapy .
an exposure to h2 - receptor antagonist agent therapy .
an exposure to diuretic agent therapy .
an exposure to anticholinergic bronchodilator agent therapy .
an exposure to corticosteroid agent therapy .
an exposure to monoamine oxidase inhibitor agent therapy .
an exposure to antidepressant agent therapy .
an exposure to phosphodiesterase inhibitor bronchodilator agent therapy .
an exposure to proton pump inhibitor agent therapy .
an exposure to progestin modifying agent therapy .
an exposure to antiparkinson agent therapy .
an exposure to vasodilator agent therapy .
an exposure to sympathomimetic bronchodilator agent therapy .
an exposure to tricyclic antidepressant agent therapy .
an exposure to thyroid - modifying hormonal agent therapy .
an exposure to anticoagulant agent therapy .
an exposure to raas inhibitor therapy .
an exposure to alpha - adrenergic antagonist agent therapy .
an exposure to cholinesterase inhibitor therapy .
an exposure to tranquilizing agent therapy .
an exposure to beta - adrenergic antagonist agent therapy .
an exposure to antileukotriene agent therapy .
an exposure to glycemic agent therapy .
an exposure to uricosuric agent therapy .
an exposure to diagnostic imaging .
an exposure to ultrasound tomography .
an exposure to positron emission tomography .
an exposure to x - ray imaging .
an exposure to mammography .
an exposure to xeroradiography .
an exposure to myelography .
an exposure to bronchography .
an exposure to cystography .
an exposure to vaginography .
an exposure to abdominal radiography .
an exposure to chest radiography .
an exposure to cholangiography .
an exposure to total body radiography .
an exposure to angiography .
an exposure to radioactivity .
an exposure to human papillomavirus infection .
an exposure to surgical procedure .
an exposure to kidney transplantation .
an exposure to transplantation procedure .
an exposure to pharmacotherapy .
a history of exposure to viruses .
a history of exposure to homo sapiens .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to deviation  ( from_normal )  of quality .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of salt .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of salt .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of methane .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of methane .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of glucose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of fructose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of sucrose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of protein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of monosaccharide .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of cholesterol .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of triglyceride .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of low - density lipoprotein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of high - density lipoprotein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of glucose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of fructose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of sucrose .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of protein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of monosaccharide .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of cholesterol .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of triglyceride .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of low - density lipoprotein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of high - density lipoprotein .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of pressure of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to frozen of liquid water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to frozen of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of temperature of soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of temperature of soil .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of temperature of water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of temperature of water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of pressure of water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of temperature of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to increased amount of pressure of water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to decreased amount of pressure of air .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to sidewalk .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to acid mine drainage .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to gold mine drainage .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to gold mine .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to coal mine .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to petting zoo .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to campground .
an exposure event involving physical aggression behavior
an exposure event involving exercise
an exposure event involving walking behavior
an exposure event involving smoking behavior
an exposure event involving smoking cessation
an exposure event involving eating behavior
an exposure event involving drinking behavior
an exposure event involving food processing
an exposure event involving hunting behavior
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to fume .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to aluminium dust .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to lime plaster .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to liquid water .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to fecal material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to chemically enriched sediment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to petroleum enriched sediment .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to bodily fluid material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to blood material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to amniotic fluid material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to excreta material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to bile material .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510018 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510023 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510016 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510015 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510000 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510006 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510007 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510008 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510009 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510029 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510031 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510032 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510033 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510036 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510037 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510038 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03510039 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to environmental system process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to combustion process .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to meteotsunami .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to acoustic radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to gamma - ray radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03500015 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03500013 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03500014 .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to radio wave radiation .
a exposure event involving the interaction of an exposure receptor to http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / envo_03500012 .
an exposure to amlodipine .
an exposure to biguanide .
an exposure to digitalin .
an exposure to nitroglycerin .
an exposure to estrone sodium sulfate .
an exposure to probucol .
an exposure to acetylsalicylic acid .
an exposure to diltiazem .
an exposure to estrogen .
an exposure to heparin .
an exposure to nifedipine .
an exposure to thiazolidinediones .
an exposure to verapamil .
an exposure to hydrogen chloride .
an exposure to sulfuric acid .
an exposure to phosphoric acid .
an exposure to acetic acid .
an exposure to nitric acid .
an exposure to alkali metal salt .
an exposure to sodium hydroxide .
an exposure to magnesium hydroxide .
an exposure to calcium hydroxide .
an exposure to potassium hydroxide .
an exposure to alcohol .
an exposure to ethanol .
an exposure to methanol .
an exposure to aluminium molecular entity .
an exposure to aluminium oxides .
an exposure to ammonia .
an exposure to arsenic molecular entity .
an exposure to asbestos .
an exposure to benzene .
an exposure to xylene .
an exposure to toluene .
an exposure to chromium molecular entity .
an exposure to chromate ( 2 -  )  .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dichloroethane .
an exposure to chloroform .
an exposure to chloroprene .
an exposure to ketone .
an exposure to dichloromethane .
an exposure to tetrachloromethane .
an exposure to carbon dioxide .
an exposure to dinitrogen oxide .
an exposure to ozone .
an exposure to talc .
an exposure to biphenyls .
an exposure to bisphenol a .
an exposure to dichlorobenzene .
an exposure to ethylbenzene .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dibromoethane .
an exposure to coal - tar pitch .
an exposure to nickel molecular entity .
an exposure to chloroethane .
an exposure to 2 - methoxyethanol .
an exposure to 2 - ethoxyethanol .
an exposure to 2 - butoxyethanol .
an exposure to polychlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to styrene .
an exposure to phosgene .
an exposure to phenol .
an exposure to silicon dioxide .
an exposure to tetrachloroethene .
an exposure to sodium hypochlorite .
an exposure to chlorine molecular entity .
an exposure to triclosan .
an exposure to poly ( vinyl acetate )  .
an exposure to urethane .
an exposure to polyurethane polymer .
an exposure to butanone .
an exposure to iodine molecular entity .
an exposure to acetone .
an exposure to iron molecular entity .
an exposure to insecticide .
an exposure to rodenticide .
an exposure to fertilizer .
an exposure to fungicide .
an exposure to perfluorooctane - 1 - sulfonic acid .
an exposure to perfluorooctanoic acid .
an exposure to methyl tert - butyl ether .
an exposure to radon molecular entity .
an exposure to bromomethane .
an exposure to propan - 2 - ol .
an exposure to butan - 1 - ol .
an exposure to toluene meta - diisocyanate .
an exposure to toluene 2 , 6 - diisocyanate .
an exposure to toluene 2 , 4 - diisocyanate .
an exposure to diphenylmethane - 4 , 4' - diisocyanate .
an exposure to uranium molecular entity .
an exposure to polymer .
an exposure to solvent .
an exposure to sodium carbonate .
an exposure to sodium silicate .
an exposure to edta ( 2 -  )  .
an exposure to hexane .
an exposure to heptane .
an exposure to rubber particle .
an exposure to epichlorohydrin .
an exposure to polyethylene polymer .
an exposure to alpha - pinene .
an exposure to beta - pinene .
an exposure to citronellol .
an exposure to citronellal .
an exposure to geraniol .
an exposure to n , n - diethyl - m - toluamide .
an exposure to cyfluthrin .
an exposure to folic acid .
an exposure to 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate .
an exposure to vitamin a .
an exposure to beta - carotene .
an exposure to retinyl palmitate .
an exposure to all - trans - retinol .
an exposure to all - trans - retinal .
an exposure to 11 - cis - retinal .
an exposure to all - trans - retinoic acid .
an exposure to 9 - cis - retinoic acid .
an exposure to vitamin d .
an exposure to vitamin d2 .
an exposure to d3 vitamins .
an exposure to tocopherol .
an exposure to  (  +  )  - alpha - tocopherol .
an exposure to  (  -  )  - alpha - tocopherol .
an exposure to vitamin k .
an exposure to phylloquinone .
an exposure to menaquinone .
an exposure to menadione .
an exposure to vitamin c .
an exposure to l - ascorbic acid .
an exposure to ascorbic acid .
an exposure to sodium ascorbate .
an exposure to thiamine .
an exposure to thiamine hydrochloride .
an exposure to riboflavin .
an exposure to reactive oxygen species .
an exposure to superoxide .
an exposure to singlet dioxygen .
an exposure to oxygen radical .
an exposure to amphetamine .
an exposure to lipid hydroperoxide .
an exposure to water .
an exposure to photon .
an exposure to ethene .
an exposure to 2 - cis - abscisic acid .
an exposure to gibberellin .
an exposure to brassinosteroid .
an exposure to carbohydrate .
an exposure to sucrose .
an exposure to hexose .
an exposure to glucose .
an exposure to fructose .
an exposure to salicylic acid .
an exposure to jasmonic acid .
an exposure to 1 - aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid .
an exposure to acetate .
an exposure to inorganic molecular entity .
an exposure to boron molecular entity .
an exposure to metal cation .
an exposure to iron cation .
an exposure to iron ( 2 +  )  .
an exposure to iron ( 3 +  )  .
an exposure to manganese cation .
an exposure to zinc cation .
an exposure to aluminium cation .
an exposure to nickel cation .
an exposure to chlorate .
an exposure to caesium molecular entity .
an exposure to nitrate .
an exposure to chitin .
an exposure to lithium ( 1 +  )  .
an exposure to proline .
an exposure to organonitrogen compound .
an exposure to thiamine ( 1 +  )  .
an exposure to selenium ion .
an exposure to silver cation .
an exposure to lead cation .
an exposure to trehalose .
an exposure to sulfur dioxide .
an exposure to mannitol .
an exposure to cycloalkane .
an exposure to isoquinoline alkaloid .
an exposure to tropane .
an exposure to purines .
an exposure to amine .
an exposure to fluoxetine .
an exposure to caffeine .
an exposure to brefeldin a .
an exposure to cobalt cation .
an exposure to magnesium cation .
an exposure to rhamnose .
an exposure to estradiol .
an exposure to peptidoglycan .
an exposure to muramyl dipeptide .
an exposure to lipopolysaccharide .
an exposure to retinoic acid .
an exposure to progesterone .
an exposure to hydroperoxide .
an exposure to alkyl hydroperoxide .
an exposure to vitamin e .
an exposure to atp .
an exposure to testosterone .
an exposure to cobalamin .
an exposure to hydroxyisoflavone .
an exposure to genistein .
an exposure to glucagon .
an exposure to triglyceride .
an exposure to oleate .
an exposure to monosaccharide .
an exposure to disaccharide .
an exposure to maltose .
an exposure to vitamin b6 .
an exposure to prostaglandin .
an exposure to prostaglandins e .
an exposure to prostaglandins f .
an exposure to prostaglandins i .
an exposure to histamine .
an exposure to ecdysone .
an exposure to nicotine .
an exposure to stilbenoid .
an exposure to nitrogen dioxide .
an exposure to potassium ( 1 +  )  .
an exposure to trichostatin a .
an exposure to amiloride .
an exposure to methylamine .
an exposure to methylphenidate .
an exposure to gemcitabine .
an exposure to statin .
an exposure to lapatinib .
an exposure to 5 - fluorouracil .
an exposure to iloperidone .
an exposure to ximelagatran .
an exposure to sterol .
an exposure to cocaine .
an exposure to hydrogen peroxide .
an exposure to amino acid .
an exposure to leucine .
an exposure to morphine .
an exposure to alkaloid .
an exposure to double - stranded rna .
an exposure to peptide hormone .
an exposure to corticotropin - releasing hormone .
an exposure to amylopectin .
an exposure to pullulan .
an exposure to ether .
an exposure to bacteriocin .
an exposure to streptomycin .
an exposure to ddt .
an exposure to carbamate .
an exposure to cyclodiene organochlorine insecticide .
an exposure to organophosphorus compound .
an exposure to cadmium cation .
an exposure to copper cation .
an exposure to mercury cation .
an exposure to tellurium ion .
an exposure to cycloheximide .
an exposure to mineralocorticoid .
an exposure to cortisone .
an exposure to cortisol .
an exposure to 3' , 5' - cyclic amp .
an exposure to calcium cation .
an exposure to methylglyoxal .
an exposure to methylmercury ( 1 +  )  .
an exposure to lipoprotein .
an exposure to ammonium ion derivative .
an exposure to 3' , 5' - cyclic gmp .
an exposure to lipoteichoic acid .
an exposure to platinum cation .
an exposure to fatty acid .
an exposure to linoleate .
an exposure to cholesterol .
an exposure to biotin .
an exposure to mycophenolate .
an exposure to dexamethasone .
an exposure to indole - 3 - methanol .
an exposure to nitric oxide .
an exposure to prostaglandins d .
an exposure to monoamine .
an exposure to catecholamine .
an exposure to adrenaline .
an exposure to noradrenaline .
an exposure to bismuth ion .
an exposure to methyl methanesulfonate .
an exposure to mercaptoethanol .
an exposure to sodium dodecyl sulfate .
an exposure to glucitol .
an exposure to hydroxyurea .
an exposure to thiabendazole .
an exposure to actinomycin d .
an exposure to cisplatin .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - dithiothreitol .
an exposure to amitrole .
an exposure to 4 - nitroquinoline n - oxide .
an exposure to cccp .
an exposure to papulacandin b .
an exposure to staurosporine .
an exposure to tert - butyl hydroperoxide .
an exposure to 1 , 1' - azobis ( n , n - dimethylformamide )  .
an exposure to benzoic acid .
an exposure to indole - 3 - butyric acid .
an exposure to nitrite .
an exposure to histidine .
an exposure to phenylalanine .
an exposure to alpha , alpha - trehalose 6 - phosphate ( 2 -  )  .
an exposure to phenylpropanoid .
an exposure to l - thyroxine .
an exposure to azide anion .
an exposure to farnesol .
an exposure to n - acetyl - d - glucosamine .
an exposure to carboplatin .
an exposure to floxuridine .
an exposure to cytarabine .
an exposure to olanzapine .
an exposure to perphenazine .
an exposure to quetiapine .
an exposure to risperidone .
an exposure to ziprasidone .
an exposure to clozapine .
an exposure to chloramphenicol .
an exposure to erythromycin .
an exposure to trichodermin .
an exposure to antimycin a .
an exposure to tetracycline .
an exposure to tacrolimus hydrate .
an exposure to cytochalasin b .
an exposure to leptomycin b .
an exposure to l - thialysine .
an exposure to l - canavanine .
an exposure to sirolimus .
an exposure to l - cysteine .
an exposure to glutathione .
an exposure to formic acid .
an exposure to furfural .
an exposure to propan - 1 - ol .
an exposure to decalin .
an exposure to diphenyl ether .
an exposure to tetralin .
an exposure to p - xylene .
an exposure to hypochlorite .
an exposure to raffinose .
an exposure to paracetamol .
an exposure to paclitaxel .
an exposure to candesartan .
an exposure to fenofibrate .
an exposure to metformin .
an exposure to ribavirin .
an exposure to purvalanol a .
an exposure to benomyl .
an exposure to paraquat .
an exposure to camptothecin .
an exposure to gw 7647 .
an exposure to capsazepine .
an exposure to hesperadin .
an exposure to reversine .
an exposure to carbendazim .
an exposure to peptide .
an exposure to nitrogen molecular entity .
an exposure to tamsulosin .
an exposure to ketamine .
an exposure to l - glutamate ( 2 -  )  .
an exposure to salt .
an exposure to diethyl maleate .
an exposure to inositol .
an exposure to catechin .
an exposure to strigolactone .
an exposure to chloroquine .
an exposure to imidacloprid .
an exposure to vanadate ( 3 -  )  .
an exposure to cyclophosphamide .
an exposure to docetaxel trihydrate .
an exposure to doxorubicin .
an exposure to etoposide .
an exposure to 4' - epidoxorubicin .
an exposure to n - phenylthiourea .
an exposure to fluoride .
an exposure to isobutanol .
an exposure to plumbagin .
an exposure to alkane .
an exposure to nonane .
an exposure to decane .
an exposure to undecane .
an exposure to dodecane .
an exposure to isooctane .
an exposure to 1 -  ( 3 , 5 - dichloro - 2 , 6 - dihydroxy - 4 - methoxyphenyl ) hexan - 1 - one .
an exposure to polycyclic arene .
an exposure to dopamine .
an exposure to bile acid .
an exposure to glycoside .
an exposure to lipoic acid .
an exposure to simvastatin .
an exposure to acetylsalicylate .
an exposure to clopidogrel .
an exposure to dehydroepiandrosterone .
an exposure to 11 - deoxycorticosterone .
an exposure to butyrate .
an exposure to l - arginine .
an exposure to arsenite ( 3 -  )  .
an exposure to arsenite ion .
an exposure to cyanide .
an exposure to sodium arsenite .
an exposure to acrylamide .
an exposure to latrunculin b .
an exposure to micafungin .
an exposure to monosodium glutamate .
an exposure to aroclor 1254 .
an exposure to serotonin .
an exposure to thyroglobulin triiodothyronine .
an exposure to aldosterone .
an exposure to acadesine .
an exposure to vasopressin .
an exposure to nonylphenol .
an exposure to desipramine .
an exposure to cordycepin .
an exposure to gold ( 3 +  )  .
an exposure to methamphetamine hydrochloride .
an exposure to 2 - o - acetyl - 1 - o - hexadecyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine .
an exposure to forskolin .
an exposure to kainic acid .
an exposure to sodium phosphate .
an exposure to l - phenylalanine derivative .
an exposure to thyroid stimulating hormone .
an exposure to nocodazole .
an exposure to d - galactosamine .
an exposure to l - dopa .
an exposure to tetrahydrofolate .
an exposure to 17alpha - ethynylestradiol .
an exposure to arachidonic acid .
an exposure to dextromethorphan .
an exposure to diphenidol .
an exposure to 1 - oleoyl - sn - glycerol 3 - phosphate .
an exposure to wortmannin .
an exposure to tunicamycin .
an exposure to thapsigargin .
an exposure to polyamine macromolecule .
an exposure to putrescine .
an exposure to glycoprotein .
an exposure to monosodium l - glutamate .
an exposure to 3 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5 - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 7 , 8 - tetrachlorodibenzodioxine .
an exposure to biphenyl .
an exposure to dimethyl sulfoxide .
an exposure to phorbol 13 - acetate 12 - myristate .
an exposure to diterpene .
an exposure to glucoside .
an exposure to ionomycin .
an exposure to resveratrol .
an exposure to methionine .
an exposure to dinitrophenol .
an exposure to curcumin .
an exposure to amyloid - beta .
an exposure to rotenone .
an exposure to 3 - methylcholanthrene .
an exposure to latrunculin a .
an exposure to l - glutamine .
an exposure to hydrogen sulfide .
an exposure to palmitoleic acid .
an exposure to bleomycin .
an exposure to diosgenin .
an exposure to haloperidol .
an exposure to acetylcholine .
an exposure to temozolomide .
an exposure to gold molecular entity .
an exposure to angiotensin .
an exposure to double - stranded dna .
an exposure to dioxygen .
an exposure to atrazine .
an exposure to phthalate .
an exposure to chlorobenzene .
an exposure to nitrobenzene .
an exposure to trichloroethene .
an exposure to o - xylene .
an exposure to thiocyanate .
an exposure to organofluorine compound .
an exposure to organoarsenic compound .
an exposure to ciprofloxacin .
an exposure to norfloxacin .
an exposure to thiopental .
an exposure to sulfamethazine .
an exposure to 1 -  ( 3 - chlorophenyl ) piperazine .
an exposure to metoclopramide .
an exposure to 2 - hydroxybenzothiazole .
an exposure to diuron .
an exposure to atomoxetine .
an exposure to sulfapyridine .
an exposure to 3 , 3' , 4 , 4' - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to  (  -  )  - ephedrine .
an exposure to cyclohexylsulfamic acid .
an exposure to aminophenazone .
an exposure to pyridine .
an exposure to naphthalene .
an exposure to chlordecone .
an exposure to dde .
an exposure to benzo [ d ] isothiazol - 3 - one .
an exposure to codeine .
an exposure to mycophenolic acid .
an exposure to biphenyl - 2 - ol .
an exposure to 3 , 5 - dibromo - 4 - hydroxybenzonitrile .
an exposure to tylosin .
an exposure to propachlor .
an exposure to ametryn .
an exposure to acetochlor .
an exposure to alachlor .
an exposure to albuterol .
an exposure to aldrin .
an exposure to prometryn .
an exposure to amitraz .
an exposure to amitriptyline .
an exposure to 1 - chloro - 2 , 2 - bis ( 4' - chlorophenyl ) ethylene .
an exposure to simazine .
an exposure to 4 - aminobenzenesulfonic acid .
an exposure to erythromycin b .
an exposure to erythromycin e .
an exposure to erythromycin d .
an exposure to beta - hexachlorocyclohexane .
an exposure to reserpine .
an exposure to aspartame .
an exposure to phenanthrene .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - d .
an exposure to atenolol .
an exposure to atorvastatin calcium trihydrate .
an exposure to azithromycin .
an exposure to kresoxim - methyl .
an exposure to bentazone .
an exposure to terbutylazine .
an exposure to simeton .
an exposure to naphthalene - 2 , 7 - disulfonic acid .
an exposure to bicalutamide .
an exposure to antipyrine .
an exposure to esatenolol .
an exposure to iobitridol .
an exposure to iohexol .
an exposure to iomeprol .
an exposure to iopamidol .
an exposure to bromacil .
an exposure to saccharin .
an exposure to sucralose .
an exposure to sulfadimethoxine .
an exposure to bupropion .
an exposure to gamma - hexachlorocyclohexane .
an exposure to 2 - nitrotoluene .
an exposure to carbamazepine .
an exposure to carbetamide .
an exposure to 1 - nitronaphthalene .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 3 , 3' , 5 , 5' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 3 , 3' , 6 , 6' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 5' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' , 6 , 6' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 5 - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 5 , 5' - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3' , 5 - trichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 3' , 4 , 5 - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 , 4' - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 - trichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 6 - trichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 4' - dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 4 , 4' , 6 - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 5 - dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dimethylnaphthalene .
an exposure to oxybenzone .
an exposure to fenobucarb .
an exposure to 3 , 5 - dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 4 , 4' - dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 4 - nonylphenol .
an exposure to bromodichloromethane .
an exposure to chlordane .
an exposure to chlorpyrifos .
an exposure to chlorpyrifos - methyl .
an exposure to decachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to diazinon .
an exposure to dibutyl phthalate .
an exposure to dimethoate .
an exposure to dinoseb .
an exposure to heptachlor .
an exposure to metribuzin .
an exposure to mirex .
an exposure to prometon .
an exposure to trifluralin .
an exposure to tris ( 2 - butoxyethyl )  phosphate .
an exposure to 3 , 3' , 5 , 5' - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to perfluorodecanoic acid .
an exposure to perfluoroheptanoic acid .
an exposure to cetirizine .
an exposure to dichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to trichlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to  ( s )  - bupropion .
an exposure to  ( r )  - bupropion .
an exposure to  ( trifluoromethyl ) benzene .
an exposure to cilastatin .
an exposure to citalopram .
an exposure to clarithromycin .
an exposure to clindamycin .
an exposure to clomazone .
an exposure to clotrimazole .
an exposure to propazine .
an exposure to cyanazine .
an exposure to monuron .
an exposure to mesotrione .
an exposure to perfluorononanoic acid .
an exposure to methoxyfenozide .
an exposure to tebufenozide .
an exposure to methiocarb .
an exposure to rosuvastatin .
an exposure to ethion .
an exposure to parathion - methyl .
an exposure to pirimiphos - methyl .
an exposure to cis - chlordane .
an exposure to trans - chlordane .
an exposure to alpha - hexachlorocyclohexane .
an exposure to acetamiprid .
an exposure to  ( e )  - acetamiprid .
an exposure to  ( z )  - acetamiprid .
an exposure to  ( e )  - imidacloprid .
an exposure to  ( z )  - imidacloprid .
an exposure to thiacloprid .
an exposure to  ( z )  - thiacloprid .
an exposure to  ( e )  - clothianidin .
an exposure to clothianidin .
an exposure to thiamethoxam .
an exposure to  ( e )  - thiamethoxam .
an exposure to flonicamid .
an exposure to pymetrozine .
an exposure to teflubenzuron .
an exposure to perfluorobutyric acid .
an exposure to atorvastatin .
an exposure to metsulfuron methyl .
an exposure to sitagliptin .
an exposure to cyprodinil .
an exposure to azoxystrobin .
an exposure to decylamine - n , n - dimethyl - n - oxide .
an exposure to erythromycin a .
an exposure to  ( r )  - amphetamine .
an exposure to gabapentin .
an exposure to dexibuprofen .
an exposure to terbutryn .
an exposure to naphthalene - 2 - sulfonic acid .
an exposure to  ( s )  - amphetamine .
an exposure to ritonavir .
an exposure to trimethoprim .
an exposure to benzothiazole .
an exposure to fluconazole .
an exposure to diglyme .
an exposure to pentachlorobenzene .
an exposure to diclofenac .
an exposure to furosemide .
an exposure to bezafibrate .
an exposure to 2 , 4 , 6 - tribromophenol .
an exposure to levibuprofen .
an exposure to endosulfan .
an exposure to epoxiconazole .
an exposure to eprosartan .
an exposure to trichlorofluoromethane .
an exposure to triclocarban .
an exposure to ethambutol .
an exposure to  ( e )  - roxithromycin .
an exposure to exemestane .
an exposure to diazepam .
an exposure to indometacin .
an exposure to fenoxycarb .
an exposure to  ( 4 - chloro - 2 - methylphenoxy ) acetic acid .
an exposure to fenpropimorph .
an exposure to fipronil .
an exposure to dronedarone .
an exposure to acamprosate .
an exposure to chloromethylisothiazolinone .
an exposure to amidotrizoic acid .
an exposure to  ( r )  - atenolol .
an exposure to hexachlorobenzene .
an exposure to hydrochlorothiazide .
an exposure to  ( r )  - ketamine .
an exposure to ibuprofen .
an exposure to ifosfamide .
an exposure to mephedrone .
an exposure to irbesartan .
an exposure to irgarol 1051 .
an exposure to isoprothiolane .
an exposure to isoproturon .
an exposure to esketamine .
an exposure to ketoprofen .
an exposure to iopromide .
an exposure to pravastatin .
an exposure to sotalol .
an exposure to lamotrigine .
an exposure to amisulpride .
an exposure to lenacil .
an exposure to erythromycin c .
an exposure to levamisole .
an exposure to levetiracetam .
an exposure to lidocaine .
an exposure to linuron .
an exposure to mefenamic acid .
an exposure to metalaxyl .
an exposure to metamitron .
an exposure to metazachlor .
an exposure to metformin hydrochloride .
an exposure to methadone .
an exposure to methamphetamine .
an exposure to methomyl .
an exposure to 6alpha - methylprednisolone .
an exposure to metolachlor .
an exposure to metoprolol .
an exposure to metronidazole .
an exposure to microcystin - lr .
an exposure to malachite green .
an exposure to naltrexone .
an exposure to naproxen .
an exposure to myclobutanil .
an exposure to benzotriazole .
an exposure to dichlorprop .
an exposure to nicosulfuron .
an exposure to mecoprop .
an exposure to triphenylmethane .
an exposure to n - nitrosopiperidine .
an exposure to 6 - phenyl - 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydroimidazo [ 2 , 1 - b ]  [ 1 , 3 ] thiazole .
an exposure to dexamisole .
an exposure to orbencarb .
an exposure to toxaphene .
an exposure to oseltamivir .
an exposure to oxazepam .
an exposure to cumene hydroperoxide .
an exposure to pyraclostrobin .
an exposure to pantoprazole .
an exposure to 3 , 4 , 4' , 5 - tetrachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 3 , 4 , 5 , 3' , 4' , 5' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 , 3' , 4' - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 4 , 4' , 5 - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5 - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5' - pentachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5 - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 5' - hexachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 3' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 5' - heptachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to asulam .
an exposure to desmedipham .
an exposure to phenmedipham .
an exposure to cyproconazole .
an exposure to difenoconazole .
an exposure to tebuconazole .
an exposure to cymoxanil .
an exposure to dimethenamid .
an exposure to fluazifop .
an exposure to 2 - methyl - 4 - chlorophenoxybutyric acid .
an exposure to trinexapac - ethyl .
an exposure to ioxynil .
an exposure to boscalid .
an exposure to diflufenican .
an exposure to chloridazon .
an exposure to fluazinam .
an exposure to dimethomorph .
an exposure to dicamba .
an exposure to imazamox .
an exposure to dimethachlor .
an exposure to fenpropidin .
an exposure to flufenacet .
an exposure to flusilazole .
an exposure to octhilinone .
an exposure to prosulfocarb .
an exposure to sulfluramid .
an exposure to terbumeton .
an exposure to chlorotoluron .
an exposure to ethofumesate .
an exposure to fluroxypyr .
an exposure to iprovalicarb .
an exposure to napropamide .
an exposure to propamocarb .
an exposure to propaquizafop .
an exposure to tebutam .
an exposure to atraton .
an exposure to secbumeton .
an exposure to pirimicarb .
an exposure to 3 - iodoprop - 2 - yn - 1 - yl butylcarbamate .
an exposure to thifensulfuron - methyl .
an exposure to 5 - methyl - 1h - benzotriazole .
an exposure to sulcotrione .
an exposure to perfluoropentanoic acid .
an exposure to perfluorohexanoic acid .
an exposure to perfluoroundecanoic acid .
an exposure to 6:2 fluorotelomer unsaturated carboxylic acid .
an exposure to 8:2 fluorotelomer unsaturated carboxylic acid .
an exposure to climbazole .
an exposure to tritosulfuron .
an exposure to acesulfame .
an exposure to foramsulfuron .
an exposure to neotame .
an exposure to perfluorooctane sulfonamidoacetic acid .
an exposure to n - methylperfluorooctane sulfonamidoacetic acid .
an exposure to n - ethylperfluorooctane sulfonamidoacetic acid .
an exposure to perfluorooctyl phosphate .
an exposure to iooxitalamic acid .
an exposure to 4 , 5 - dichloro - 2 - n - octyl - 3 ( 2h )  - isothiazolone .
an exposure to sebuthylazine .
an exposure to pethoxamide .
an exposure to pinoxaden .
an exposure to moclobemide .
an exposure to neohesperidin dihydrochalcone .
an exposure to 1 -  ( 3 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl ) piperazine .
an exposure to 1 - benzylpiperazine .
an exposure to bisperfluorooctyl phosphate .
an exposure to bisperfluorodecyl phosphate .
an exposure to perfluorodecyl phosphate .
an exposure to pendimethalin .
an exposure to prednisolone .
an exposure to primidone .
an exposure to quinmerac .
an exposure to prochloraz .
an exposure to propiconazole .
an exposure to propranolol .
an exposure to flumequine .
an exposure to heptachlorobiphenyl .
an exposure to pyrimethanil .
an exposure to acid red 4 .
an exposure to  ( r )  -  (  +  )  - propranolol .
an exposure to  ( r )  - salbutamol .
an exposure to ranitidine .
an exposure to brilliant green .
an exposure to brilliant green cation .
an exposure to sirius red 4b .
an exposure to rimsulfuron .
an exposure to perfluorododecanoic acid .
an exposure to spironolactone .
an exposure to spiroxamine .
an exposure to sulfadiazine .
an exposure to sulfamethoxazole .
an exposure to sulfathiazole .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dichlorobenzonitrile .
an exposure to telmisartan .
an exposure to tramadol .
an exposure to trichlopyr .
an exposure to trimipramine .
an exposure to valsartan .
an exposure to venlafaxine .
an exposure to phthalate ester .
an exposure to heptachlor epoxide .
an exposure to antimony ( 0 )  .
an exposure to elemental thallium .
an exposure to fluorene .
an exposure to 1 , 1 , 1 - trichloroethane .
an exposure to 1 , 1 , 2 , 2 - tetrachloroethane .
an exposure to 1 , 1 , 2 - trichloroethane .
an exposure to 1 , 1 - dichloroethane .
an exposure to 1 , 1 - dichloroethene .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dibromo - 3 - chloropropane .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dichlorobenzene .
an exposure to cis - 1 , 2 - dichloroethene .
an exposure to trans - 1 , 2 - dichloroethene .
an exposure to rac - 1 , 2 - dichloropropane .
an exposure to 2 , 5 - dimethylfuran .
an exposure to dibromomethane .
an exposure to hexachloroethane .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' - tetrabromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl 2 , 4 , 5 - tribromophenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 5' - hexabromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 6' - hexabromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 3 , 4 , 4' , 5' , 6 - heptabromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to paraben .
an exposure to perchlorate .
an exposure to daidzein .
an exposure to enterodiol .
an exposure to enterolactone .
an exposure to equol .
an exposure to o - desmethylangolensin .
an exposure to arsenobetaine .
an exposure to dimethylarsinic acid .
an exposure to antimony molecular entity .
an exposure to barium molecular entity .
an exposure to beryllium molecular entity .
an exposure to cobalt molecular entity .
an exposure to copper molecular entity .
an exposure to lead molecular entity .
an exposure to manganese molecular entity .
an exposure to molybdenum molecular entity .
an exposure to platinum molecular entity .
an exposure to selenium molecular entity .
an exposure to strontium molecular entity .
an exposure to tin molecular entity .
an exposure to tungsten molecular entity .
an exposure to zinc molecular entity .
an exposure to methylparaben .
an exposure to methylarsonic acid .
an exposure to abamectin .
an exposure to acephate .
an exposure to acetaldehyde .
an exposure to acetamide .
an exposure to acetonitrile .
an exposure to acetophenone .
an exposure to 2 - acetamidofluorene .
an exposure to acrolein .
an exposure to acrylic acid .
an exposure to acrylonitrile .
an exposure to aldicarb .
an exposure to  (  +  )  - trans - allethrin .
an exposure to allyl alcohol .
an exposure to allyl chloride .
an exposure to aluminium ( 0 )  .
an exposure to aluminium phosphide .
an exposure to aluminium oxide .
an exposure to 2 - aminoanthraquinone .
an exposure to 4 -  ( phenylazo ) aniline .
an exposure to biphenyl - 4 - amine .
an exposure to 1 - amino - 2 - methylanthraquinone .
an exposure to 1 - amino - 2 , 4 - dibromoanthraquinone .
an exposure to anilazine .
an exposure to aniline .
an exposure to o - anisidine .
an exposure to anthracene .
an exposure to bendiocarb .
an exposure to benzal chloride .
an exposure to benzamide .
an exposure to benzidine .
an exposure to  ( trichloromethyl ) benzene .
an exposure to benzoyl chloride .
an exposure to benzoyl peroxide .
an exposure to benzyl chloride .
an exposure to bifenthrin .
an exposure to bis ( chloromethyl )  ether .
an exposure to bis ( 2 - chloro - 1 - methylethyl ) ether .
an exposure to tributylstannane .
an exposure to boron trifluoride .
an exposure to bromochlorodifluoromethane .
an exposure to bromoform .
an exposure to brucine .
an exposure to buta - 1 , 3 - diene .
an exposure to butyl acrylate .
an exposure to butan - 2 - ol .
an exposure to tert - butanol .
an exposure to butanal .
an exposure to calcium cyanamide .
an exposure to captan .
an exposure to carbaryl .
an exposure to carbofuran .
an exposure to carbon disulfide .
an exposure to carbonyl sulfide .
an exposure to carboxin .
an exposure to catechol .
an exposure to quinomethionate .
an exposure to chloramben .
an exposure to chlorendic acid .
an exposure to chlorimuron - ethyl .
an exposure to chlorine dioxide .
an exposure to quaternium - 15 .
an exposure to 4 - chloroaniline .
an exposure to chlorobenzilate .
an exposure to chlorodifluoromethane .
an exposure to chloromethane .
an exposure to chloromethyl methyl ether .
an exposure to chloropicrin .
an exposure to chlorothalonil .
an exposure to guinea green b .
an exposure to sudan ii .
an exposure to ortho - aminoazotoluene .
an exposure to sudan i .
an exposure to auramine o free base .
an exposure to vat yellow 4 .
an exposure to para - cresidine .
an exposure to m - cresol .
an exposure to o - cresol .
an exposure to p - cresol .
an exposure to cresol .
an exposure to crotonaldehyde .
an exposure to cycloate .
an exposure to cyclohexane .
an exposure to cyclohexanol .
an exposure to cyhalothrin .
an exposure to  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy ) acetate .
an exposure to dazomet .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - db .
an exposure to decabromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - diaminoanisole .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - diaminotoluene .
an exposure to diazomethane .
an exposure to dibenzofuran .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dichloro - 4 - nitroaniline .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - dichlorobenzene .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - dichlorobenzene .
an exposure to 3 , 3' - dichlorobenzidine .
an exposure to trans - 1 , 4 - dichlorobutene .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dichloroethene .
an exposure to 4 - chlorophenol .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dichlorophenol .
an exposure to  ( e )  - 1 , 3 - dichloropropene .
an exposure to dichlorvos .
an exposure to diclofop - methyl .
an exposure to dicofol .
an exposure to dicyclopentadiene .
an exposure to diepoxybutane .
an exposure to diethanolamine .
an exposure to diethyl sulfate .
an exposure to diflubenzuron .
an exposure to diglycidyl resorcinol ether .
an exposure to dihydrosafrole .
an exposure to dimethipin .
an exposure to 3 , 3' - dimethoxybenzidine .
an exposure to dimethylamine .
an exposure to n , n - dimethylaniline .
an exposure to 3 , 3' - dimethylbenzidine .
an exposure to n , n - dimethylformamide .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dimethylphenol .
an exposure to dimethyl phthalate .
an exposure to dimethyl sulfate .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - dinitrobenzene .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dinitrobenzene .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - dinitrobenzene .
an exposure to 4 , 6 - dinitro - o - cresol .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dinitrophenol .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dinitrotoluene .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dinitrotoluene .
an exposure to dinitrotoluene .
an exposure to dinocap .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - dioxane .
an exposure to diphenamid .
an exposure to diphenylamine .
an exposure to phenylhydrazine .
an exposure to 1 - dodecylguanidine .
an exposure to ethoprophos .
an exposure to ethyl acrylate .
an exposure to eptc .
an exposure to ethylene glycol .
an exposure to aziridine .
an exposure to oxirane .
an exposure to famphur .
an exposure to fenarimol .
an exposure to fenbutatin oxide .
an exposure to fenoxaprop ethyl .
an exposure to fenpropathrin .
an exposure to fenthion .
an exposure to fenvalerate .
an exposure to ferbam .
an exposure to fluazifop - butyl .
an exposure to fluometuron .
an exposure to fluorine molecular entity .
an exposure to fluvalinate .
an exposure to folpet .
an exposure to fomesafen .
an exposure to furan .
an exposure to glycidol .
an exposure to hexachloro - 1 , 3 - butadiene .
an exposure to hexachlorophene .
an exposure to hexamethylphosphoric triamide .
an exposure to hexazinone .
an exposure to hydramethylnon .
an exposure to hydrazine .
an exposure to hydrogen cyanide .
an exposure to hydrogen fluoride .
an exposure to hydroquinone .
an exposure to enilconazole .
an exposure to pentacarbonyliron .
an exposure to isobutyraldehyde .
an exposure to isodrin .
an exposure to isoprene .
an exposure to isosafrole .
an exposure to trifluoromethyl group .
an exposure to lithium carbonate .
an exposure to malathion .
an exposure to maleic anhydride .
an exposure to malononitrile .
an exposure to maneb .
an exposure to elemental manganese .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - benzothiazole - 2 - thiol .
an exposure to methazole .
an exposure to methoxychlor .
an exposure to methyl acrylate .
an exposure to 4 , 4' - diaminodiphenylmethane .
an exposure to o - methyleugenol .
an exposure to iodomethane .
an exposure to methyl isobutyl ketone .
an exposure to methyl isocyanate .
an exposure to methyl isothiocyanate .
an exposure to 2 - hydroxy - 2 - methylpropanenitrile .
an exposure to methyl methacrylate .
an exposure to n - methylolacrylamide .
an exposure to 2 - methylpyridine .
an exposure to metiram .
an exposure to mevinphos .
an exposure to molinate .
an exposure to molybdenum trioxide .
an exposure to bis ( 2 - chloroethyl )  sulfide .
an exposure to nabam .
an exposure to naled .
an exposure to 1 - naphthylamine .
an exposure to 2 - naphthylamine .
an exposure to nitrapyrin .
an exposure to nitrilotriacetic acid .
an exposure to 4 - nitroaniline .
an exposure to 2 - nitroanisole .
an exposure to 2 - methoxy - 5 - nitroaniline .
an exposure to 4 - nitrobiphenyl .
an exposure to nitrofen .
an exposure to 2 - chloroethyl group .
an exposure to nitromethane .
an exposure to 2 - nitrophenol .
an exposure to 4 - nitrophenol .
an exposure to 2 - nitropropane .
an exposure to n - nitrosodi - n - butylamine .
an exposure to n - nitrosodiethylamine .
an exposure to n - nitrosodimethylamine .
an exposure to n - nitrosodiphenylamine .
an exposure to n - nitrosodi - n - propylamine .
an exposure to n - methyl - n - nitrosourea .
an exposure to n - nitrosomethylvinylamine .
an exposure to n - nitrosomorpholine .
an exposure to 5 - nitro - o - toluidine .
an exposure to norflurazon .
an exposure to octachlorostyrene .
an exposure to oryzalin .
an exposure to osmium tetroxide .
an exposure to oxydemeton - methyl .
an exposure to oxyfluorfen .
an exposure to paraldehyde .
an exposure to paraquat dichloride .
an exposure to p - nitrophenyl group .
an exposure to pebulate .
an exposure to pentan - 3 - yl group .
an exposure to pentachloroethane .
an exposure to pentachlorophenol .
an exposure to pentobarbital sodium .
an exposure to permethrin .
an exposure to phenolphthalein .
an exposure to phenothrin .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - phenylenediamine .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - phenylenediamine .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - phenylenediamine .
an exposure to phenytoin .
an exposure to phosphine .
an exposure to phosphorus molecular entity .
an exposure to phthalic anhydride .
an exposure to picloram .
an exposure to picric acid .
an exposure to piperonyl butoxide .
an exposure to potassium bromate .
an exposure to profenofos .
an exposure to isopropyl group .
an exposure to propyzamide .
an exposure to propargite .
an exposure to prop - 2 - yn - 1 - ol .
an exposure to propetamphos .
an exposure to beta - propiolactone .
an exposure to propanal .
an exposure to propoxur .
an exposure to propene .
an exposure to 2 - methylaziridine .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - epoxypropane .
an exposure to quinoline .
an exposure to quinone .
an exposure to pentachloronitrobenzene .
an exposure to quizalofop - ethyl .
an exposure to resmethrin .
an exposure to safrole .
an exposure to sethoxydim .
an exposure to elemental silver .
an exposure to sodium azide .
an exposure to sodium fluoroacetate .
an exposure to sodium nitrite .
an exposure to styrene oxide .
an exposure to sulfuryl difluoride .
an exposure to sulprofos .
an exposure to tert - butyl group .
an exposure to temephos .
an exposure to terbacil .
an exposure to 3 , 3' , 5 , 5' - tetrabromobisphenol a .
an exposure to 1 , 1 , 1 , 2 - tetrachloroethane .
an exposure to tetrachlorvinphos .
an exposure to tetracycline hydrochloride .
an exposure to tetrafluoroethene .
an exposure to tetranitromethane .
an exposure to tetramethrin .
an exposure to thioacetamide .
an exposure to thiobencarb .
an exposure to 4 , 4' - thiodianiline .
an exposure to thiodicarb .
an exposure to thiourea .
an exposure to thiram .
an exposure to thorium dioxide .
an exposure to o - toluidine .
an exposure to triadimefon .
an exposure to tri - allate .
an exposure to triaziquone .
an exposure to tribenuron methyl .
an exposure to tribufos .
an exposure to trichlorfon .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 4 - trichlorobenzene .
an exposure to 2 , 4 , 5 - trichlorophenol .
an exposure to 2 , 4 , 6 - trichlorophenol .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 - trichloropropane .
an exposure to triethylamine .
an exposure to triforine .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 4 - trimethylbenzene .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 5 - trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate .
an exposure to fentin chloride .
an exposure to fentin hydroxide .
an exposure to tris ( 2 , 3 - dibromopropyl )  phosphate .
an exposure to trypan blue .
an exposure to vanadium molecular entity .
an exposure to vinclozolin .
an exposure to vinyl acetate .
an exposure to bromoethene .
an exposure to chloroethene .
an exposure to fluoroethene .
an exposure to m - xylene .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
an exposure to elemental zinc .
an exposure to zineb .
an exposure to chlorophenol .
an exposure to diisocyanate .
an exposure to silver molecular entity .
an exposure to thallium molecular entity .
an exposure to elemental boron .
an exposure to l - lysine .
an exposure to benzo [ a ] pyrene .
an exposure to 1 , 6 - dinitropyrene .
an exposure to 1 , 8 - dinitropyrene .
an exposure to 5 - methylchrysene .
an exposure to 6 - nitrochrysene .
an exposure to 1 - nitropyrene .
an exposure to 4 - nitropyrene .
an exposure to 3 , 3' - dimethoxybenzidine - 4 , 4' - diisocyanate .
an exposure to hexamethylene diisocyanate .
an exposure to isophorone diisocyanate .
an exposure to 1 , 5 - naphthalene diisocyanate .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 7 , 8 - hexachlorodibenzodioxin .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 , 7 , 8 - hexachlorodibenzodioxin .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 8 - heptachlorodibenzodioxin .
an exposure to 2 , 3 , 7 , 8 - tetrachlorodibenzofuran .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 8 - heptachlorodibenzofuran .
an exposure to squalene .
an exposure to inulin .
an exposure to primary alcohol .
an exposure to lycopene .
an exposure to quercetin .
an exposure to 1h - pyrazole .
an exposure to 1 - methyl - 4 - phenyl - 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 - tetrahydropyridine .
an exposure to polysaccharide .
an exposure to n - methyl - n' - nitro - n - nitrosoguanidine .
an exposure to alpha - tocopherol .
an exposure to n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea .
an exposure to 7 , 12 - dimethyltetraphene .
an exposure to alendronic acid .
an exposure to phosphate .
an exposure to retinoid .
an exposure to sodium chloride .
an exposure to ceftriaxone .
an exposure to sodium nitroprusside .
an exposure to potassium chloride .
an exposure to technetium - 99 .
an exposure to captopril .
an exposure to phenols .
an exposure to carrageenan .
an exposure to 4 - octylphenol .
an exposure to pentolinium ion .
an exposure to ruthenium red .
an exposure to sulfonamide .
an exposure to benfotiamine .
an exposure to diethylstilbestrol .
an exposure to acepromazine .
an exposure to dihydrocapsaicin .
an exposure to 5 - bromo - 2' - deoxyuridine .
an exposure to 4 - methyl - 2 - oxopentanoic acid .
an exposure to angiotensin ii .
an exposure to lithium chloride .
an exposure to naringenin .
an exposure to titanium dioxide nanoparticle .
an exposure to pristane .
an exposure to glyburide .
an exposure to pentolinium tartrate .
an exposure to guanethidine .
an exposure to isotretinoin .
an exposure to isoprenaline .
an exposure to losartan .
an exposure to methacholine .
an exposure to methylene blue .
an exposure to 1 , 2 - dimethylhydrazine .
an exposure to chrysin .
an exposure to 3 - methyl - 4' - dimethylaminoazobenzene .
an exposure to oxidopamine .
an exposure to phenylephrine .
an exposure to streptozocin .
an exposure to trimethaphan camsylate .
an exposure to heroin .
an exposure to organotin compound .
an exposure to organotin acaricide .
an exposure to acetic anhydride .
an exposure to acetylene .
an exposure to ammonium chloride .
an exposure to arsane .
an exposure to thiophenol .
an exposure to diboron trioxide .
an exposure to butane .
an exposure to butan - 2 - one .
an exposure to butyl acetate .
an exposure to butan - 1 - amine .
an exposure to butyronitrile .
an exposure to calcium carbonate .
an exposure to calcium dihydroxide .
an exposure to calcium sulfate .
an exposure to camphor .
an exposure to epsilon - caprolactam .
an exposure to captafol .
an exposure to tetrabromomethane .
an exposure to caesium hydroxide .
an exposure to dioxidochlorine (  .
an exposure to trifluorochlorine .
an exposure to bromochloromethane .
an exposure to chromic acid .
an exposure to dichromium trioxide .
an exposure to chromyl dichloride .
an exposure to cumene .
an exposure to cyanamide .
an exposure to oxalonitrile .
an exposure to cyclohexanone .
an exposure to cyclohexene .
an exposure to cyclohexylamine .
an exposure to 1 , 3 , 5 - trinitro - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazinane .
an exposure to cyclopentadiene .
an exposure to cyclopentane .
an exposure to diacetone alcohol .
an exposure to diborane ( 6 )  .
an exposure to ferrocene .
an exposure to dieldrin .
an exposure to 2 - diethylaminoethanol .
an exposure to diethylenetriamine .
an exposure to diethyl phthalate .
an exposure to disulfiram .
an exposure to disulfoton .
an exposure to 2 , 6 - di - tert - butyl - 4 - methylphenol .
an exposure to enflurane .
an exposure to ethanolamine .
an exposure to ethyl acetate .
an exposure to ethylamine .
an exposure to 2 - chloroethanol .
an exposure to ethylenediamine .
an exposure to diethyl ether .
an exposure to ethyl formate .
an exposure to fenamiphos .
an exposure to formimidic acid .
an exposure to furfuryl alcohol .
an exposure to germane .
an exposure to alditol .
an exposure to halothane .
an exposure to hexafluoroacetone .
an exposure to hydrogen bromide .
an exposure to 1h - indene .
an exposure to iodoform .
an exposure to ferric oxide .
an exposure to iron ( 2 +  )  sulfate  ( anhydrous )  .
an exposure to isoamyl acetate .
an exposure to isoamylol .
an exposure to isobutane .
an exposure to isobutyl acetate .
an exposure to isopropylamine .
an exposure to magnesium oxide .
an exposure to malonaldehyde .
an exposure to methoxyflurane .
an exposure to methyl acetate .
an exposure to dimethoxymethane .
an exposure to heptan - 2 - one .
an exposure to methyl formate .
an exposure to methanethiol .
an exposure to monocrotophos .
an exposure to morpholine .
an exposure to tetracarbonylnickel .
an exposure to nitroethane .
an exposure to nitrogen trifluoride .
an exposure to 3 - nitrotoluene .
an exposure to octane .
an exposure to oxalic acid .
an exposure to oxygen difluoride .
an exposure to parathion .
an exposure to pentane .
an exposure to pentan - 2 - one .
an exposure to 10h - phenothiazine .
an exposure to phorate .
an exposure to phosphane .
an exposure to phosphoryl trichloride .
an exposure to phosphorus trichloride .
an exposure to propane .
an exposure to propane - 1 - thiol .
an exposure to propionic acid .
an exposure to propionitrile .
an exposure to resorcinol .
an exposure to silicon carbide .
an exposure to silane .
an exposure to trisodium hexafluoroaluminate .
an exposure to stibane .
an exposure to sulfur hexafluoride .
an exposure to sulfur tetrafluoride .
an exposure to  ( 2 , 4 , 5 - trichlorophenoxy ) acetic acid .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - diphenylbenzene .
an exposure to tetraethyllead .
an exposure to oxolane .
an exposure to thioglycolic acid .
an exposure to thionyl chloride .
an exposure to tin dioxide .
an exposure to titanium dioxide .
an exposure to tributyl phosphate .
an exposure to trimethylamine .
an exposure to 1 , 2 , 3 - trimethylbenzene .
an exposure to 1 , 3 , 5 - trimethylbenzene .
an exposure to triphenyl phosphate .
an exposure to divanadium pentaoxide .
an exposure to 4 - hydroxy - 3 -  ( 3 - oxo - 1 - phenylbutyl )  - 1 - benzopyran - 2 - one .
an exposure to zinc dichloride .
an exposure to zinc oxide .
an exposure to azinphos - methyl .
an exposure to fentanyl .
an exposure to sarin .
an exposure to strychnine .
an exposure to ricin .
an exposure to bis ( 2 - ethylhexyl )  phthalate .
an exposure to 1 , 1 - dimethylhydrazine .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - dichloropropene .
an exposure to sodium hydrogensulfite .
an exposure to sodium fluoride .
an exposure to mechlorethamine .
an exposure to copper ( 2 +  )  .
an exposure to organochlorine insecticide .
an exposure to organochlorine pesticide .
an exposure to 1 , 4 - dioxine .
an exposure to polychlorinated dibenzodioxines and related compounds .
an exposure to polybromobiphenyl .
an exposure to polychlorinated dibenzofuran .
an exposure to disodium 5' - guanylate .
an exposure to phenylureas .
an exposure to chlorofluorocarbon .
an exposure to ethylparaben .
an exposure to propylparaben .
an exposure to hafnium atom .
an exposure to ammonium sulfamate .
an exposure to pentyl acetate .
an exposure to antu .
an exposure to barium chloride .
an exposure to calcium oxide .
an exposure to chloroacetaldehyde .
an exposure to chloroacetyl chloride .
an exposure to copper ( ii )  oxide .
an exposure to crufomate .
an exposure to dichloroacetylene .
an exposure to bis ( 2 - chloroethyl ) ether .
an exposure to dalapon .
an exposure to dicrotophos .
an exposure to diethylamine .
an exposure to pentan - 3 - one .
an exposure to 2 - methyl - 4 - heptanone .
an exposure to n , n - dimethylacetamide .
an exposure to dimethylcarbamoyl chloride .
an exposure to dioxation .
an exposure to 4 - heptanone .
an exposure to diquat .
an exposure to epn .
an exposure to heptan - 3 - one .
an exposure to ethylenethiourea .
an exposure to fensulfothion .
an exposure to fonofos .
an exposure to formamide .
an exposure to glutaraldehyde .
an exposure to glycerol .
an exposure to 2 - methylpentane - 2 , 4 - diol .
an exposure to selane .
an exposure to elemental indium .
an exposure to 3 - methyl - 2 - butanol .
an exposure to isophorone .
an exposure to 4 - methyl - 3 - penten - 2 - one ,  9ci .
an exposure to methacrylic acid .
an exposure to p - methoxyphenol .
an exposure to 4 , 4' - methylene - bis -  ( 2 - chloroaniline )  .
an exposure to dicyclohexylmethane - 4 , 4' - diisocyanate .
an exposure to 5 - methyl - 2 - hexanone .
an exposure to alpha - methylstyrene .
an exposure to n - methylaniline .
an exposure to 4 - chloronitrobenzene .
an exposure to 2 - nitronaphthalene .
an exposure to 1 - nitropropane .
an exposure to 4 - nitrotoluene .
an exposure to phenyl glycidyl ether .
an exposure to n - phenyl - 2 - naphthylamine .
an exposure to phosphorus pentachloride .
an exposure to isophthalonitrile .
an exposure to pindone .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - propane sultone .
an exposure to propyl acetate .
an exposure to rhodium atom .
an exposure to fenchlorphos .
an exposure to selenium hexafluoride .
an exposure to tantalum atom .
an exposure to sulfotep .
an exposure to tellurium hexafluoride .
an exposure to tepp .
an exposure to tetramethyllead .
an exposure to sodium diphosphate .
an exposure to n - methyl - n - picrylnitramine .
an exposure to p - toluidine .
an exposure to trichloroacetic acid .
an exposure to 2 , 4 , 6 - trinitrotoluene .
an exposure to pentanal .
an exposure to 4 - vinylcyclohexene dioxide .
an exposure to vinylidene fluoride .
an exposure to zirconium atom .
an exposure to soman .
an exposure to polybromodiphenyl ether .
an exposure to perfluorinated compound .
an exposure to volatile organic compound .
an exposure to perfluorobutanesulfonic acid .
an exposure to perfluorohexanesulfonic acid .
an exposure to arsenocholine .
an exposure to polychlorinated dibenzodioxine .
an exposure to 1 , 3 - dichloropropane .
an exposure to inorganic acid .
an exposure to gas molecular entity .
an exposure to 2 - bromophenyl 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl ether .
an exposure to endocrine disruptor .
an exposure to metalloid atom .
an exposure to 4 - bromophenyl 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl 3 , 4 - dibromophenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl 2 , 3 , 4 - tribromophenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 4 - dibromophenyl 2 , 4 , 6 - tribromophenyl ether .
an exposure to 2 , 2' , 4 , 4' , 5 , 5' - hexabromobiphenyl .
an exposure to perfluorooctanesulfonamide .
an exposure to trimethylarsine oxide .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .7 .7  ( dna - directed dna polymerase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to electron donor .
an exposure to electron acceptor .
an exposure to ec 2 .5 .1 .19  ( 3 - phosphoshikimate 1 - carboxyvinyltransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to acaricide .
an exposure to ec 2 .2 .1 .6  ( acetolactate synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antioxidant .
an exposure to antiviral agent .
an exposure to auxin .
an exposure to phytogenic insecticide .
an exposure to calcium ionophore .
an exposure to ec 4 .2 .1 .1  ( carbonic anhydrase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to chromophore .
an exposure to coenzyme .
an exposure to cofactor .
an exposure to compatible osmolytes .
an exposure to cytokinin .
an exposure to defoliant .
an exposure to ethylene releasers .
an exposure to fat - soluble vitamin .
an exposure to iron ( 3 +  )  chelator .
an exposure to ec 6 .3 .1 .2  ( glutamate -  - ammonia ligase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to intercalator .
an exposure to ionophore .
an exposure to jasmonates .
an exposure to nematicide .
an exposure to neonicotinoid insectide .
an exposure to nucleoside antibiotic .
an exposure to osmolyte .
an exposure to pheromone .
an exposure to phytoalexin .
an exposure to biological pigment .
an exposure to prosthetic group .
an exposure to siderophore .
an exposure to synthetic auxin .
an exposure to micronutrient .
an exposure to volatile oil component .
an exposure to water - soluble vitamin .
an exposure to detergent .
an exposure to vitamin .
an exposure to antibacterial agent .
an exposure to nutrient .
an exposure to agrochemical .
an exposure to avicide .
an exposure to fuel .
an exposure to diagnostic agent .
an exposure to reagent .
an exposure to macronutrient .
an exposure to tracer .
an exposure to plant growth retardant .
an exposure to antimetabolite .
an exposure to catalyst .
an exposure to effector .
an exposure to fossil fuel .
an exposure to central nervous system stimulant .
an exposure to antiinfective agent .
an exposure to antiparasitic agent .
an exposure to anthelminthic drug .
an exposure to antinematodal drug .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .15 .1  ( peptidyl - dipeptidase a )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antidepressant .
an exposure to psychotropic drug .
an exposure to anti - inflammatory drug .
an exposure to anxiolytic drug .
an exposure to non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug .
an exposure to antipsychotic agent .
an exposure to analgesic .
an exposure to non - narcotic analgesic .
an exposure to opioid analgesic .
an exposure to ec 1 .2 .1 .3  [ aldehyde dehydrogenase  ( nad (  +  )  )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to central nervous system depressant .
an exposure to antipyretic .
an exposure to diuretic .
an exposure to hallucinogen .
an exposure to beta - adrenergic agonist .
an exposure to bronchodilator agent .
an exposure to sympathomimetic agent .
an exposure to hypoglycemic agent .
an exposure to beta - adrenergic antagonist .
an exposure to ec 1 .14 .99 .1  ( prostaglandin - endoperoxide synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .3 .48  ( protein - tyrosine - phosphatase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antineoplastic agent .
an exposure to flavouring agent .
an exposure to anticonvulsant .
an exposure to ec 3 .5 .2 .6  ( beta - lactamase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to adrenergic uptake inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .34 / ec 1 .1 .1 .88  ( hydroxymethylglutaryl - coa reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antihypertensive agent .
an exposure to antilipemic drug .
an exposure to xenobiotic .
an exposure to immunosuppressive agent .
an exposure to sedative .
an exposure to antifungal agent .
an exposure to coccidiostat .
an exposure to antiprotozoal drug .
an exposure to anticholesteremic drug .
an exposure to antirheumatic drug .
an exposure to lipoxygenase inhibitor .
an exposure to antimicrobial drug .
an exposure to antiviral drug .
an exposure to antibacterial drug .
an exposure to oxytocic .
an exposure to local anaesthetic .
an exposure to trypanocidal drug .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .3 .16  ( phosphoprotein phosphatase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to mri contrast agent .
an exposure to protein kinase inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .11 .13  ( protein kinase c )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .1 .8  ( cholinesterase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to plant hormone .
an exposure to adrenergic antagonist .
an exposure to alpha - adrenergic antagonist .
an exposure to phenothiazine antipsychotic drug .
an exposure to h1 - receptor antagonist .
an exposure to histamine antagonist .
an exposure to adrenergic agent .
an exposure to triazine insecticide .
an exposure to antimalarial .
an exposure to anti - arrhythmia drug .
an exposure to cardiotonic drug .
an exposure to phytosiderophore .
an exposure to iron chelator .
an exposure to chelator .
an exposure to calcium channel blocker .
an exposure to phytotoxin .
an exposure to muscarinic agonist .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .1 .7  ( acetylcholinesterase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to mitochondrial nadh:ubiquinone reductase inhibitor .
an exposure to sodium channel blocker .
an exposure to tyrosine kinase inhibitor .
an exposure to pediculicide .
an exposure to calcium channel agonist .
an exposure to calcium channel modulator .
an exposure to ryanodine receptor modulator .
an exposure to anaesthetic .
an exposure to general anaesthetic .
an exposure to inhalation anaesthetic .
an exposure to intravenous anaesthetic .
an exposure to schistosomicide drug .
an exposure to gaba - gated chloride channel antagonist .
an exposure to bridged diphenyl acaricide .
an exposure to photosensitizing agent .
an exposure to nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist .
an exposure to protein synthesis inhibitor .
an exposure to antiseptic drug .
an exposure to serotonergic antagonist .
an exposure to fragrance .
an exposure to polar solvent .
an exposure to non - polar solvent .
an exposure to protic solvent .
an exposure to polar aprotic solvent .
an exposure to amphiprotic solvent .
an exposure to antiparkinson drug .
an exposure to angiogenesis inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .21  ( aldehyde reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to dopaminergic agent .
an exposure to dopaminergic antagonist .
an exposure to radical scavenger .
an exposure to fibrin modulating drug .
an exposure to antagonist .
an exposure to cholinergic antagonist .
an exposure to muscarinic antagonist .
an exposure to nicotinic antagonist .
an exposure to prostaglandin antagonist .
an exposure to drug metabolite .
an exposure to peripheral nervous system drug .
an exposure to anti - asthmatic drug .
an exposure to anti - ulcer drug .
an exposure to contraceptive drug .
an exposure to excitatory amino acid agonist .
an exposure to androgen .
an exposure to bronchoconstrictor agent .
an exposure to keratolytic drug .
an exposure to dermatologic drug .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .4 .
an exposure to antidote .
an exposure to hematologic agent .
an exposure to anticoagulant .
an exposure to prodrug .
an exposure to gaba modulator .
an exposure to ec 5 .99 .1 .2  ( dna topoisomerase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to parasympatholytic .
an exposure to ec 1 .6 .5 .2  [ nad ( p ) h dehydrogenase  ( quinone )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to platelet aggregation inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .5 .1 .15  ( dihydropteroate synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to laxative .
an exposure to sweetening agent .
an exposure to potassium channel blocker .
an exposure to mydriatic agent .
an exposure to vasoconstrictor agent .
an exposure to protein denaturant .
an exposure to nitric oxide donor .
an exposure to cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor .
an exposure to cyclooxygenase 1 inhibitor .
an exposure to bone density conservation agent .
an exposure to antithyroid drug .
an exposure to ec 1 .5 .1 .3  ( dihydrofolate reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to cross - linking reagent .
an exposure to abortifacient .
an exposure to nutraceutical .
an exposure to antipsoriatic .
an exposure to ec 5 .99 .1 .3  [ dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolysing )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to appetite enhancer .
an exposure to immunomodulator .
an exposure to immunological adjuvant .
an exposure to antiatherogenic agent .
an exposure to anti - allergic agent .
an exposure to teratogenic agent .
an exposure to hepatotoxic agent .
an exposure to nephrotoxic agent .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .1 .137  ( phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antiemetic .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .11 .1  ( non - specific serine / threonine protein kinase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to serotonin uptake inhibitor .
an exposure to dopamine uptake inhibitor .
an exposure to antitussive .
an exposure to muscle relaxant .
an exposure to mitogen .
an exposure to ec 3 .2 .1 .18  ( exo - alpha - sialidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to proteasome inhibitor .
an exposure to epitope .
an exposure to adenosine a2a receptor antagonist .
an exposure to ghb receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .205  ( imp dehydrogenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antispasmodic drug .
an exposure to mu - opioid receptor agonist .
an exposure to antidiarrhoeal drug .
an exposure to antigen .
an exposure to hapten .
an exposure to dna synthesis inhibitor .
an exposure to phosphoantigen .
an exposure to antipruritic drug .
an exposure to electrophilic reagent .
an exposure to nucleophilic reagent .
an exposure to progestin .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .7 .49  ( rna - directed dna polymerase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .14 .18 .1  ( tyrosinase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .6 .3 .8  ( ca ( 2 +  )  - transporting atpase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to thyroid hormone .
an exposure to opioid receptor agonist .
an exposure to nmda receptor antagonist .
an exposure to anaesthesia adjuvant .
an exposure to adjuvant .
an exposure to tubulin modulator .
an exposure to nephrotoxin .
an exposure to angiotensin receptor antagonist .
an exposure to ec 3 .5 .1 .98  ( histone deacetylase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .14 .13 .39  ( nitric oxide synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to microtubule - stabilising agent .
an exposure to microtubule - destabilising agent .
an exposure to metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist .
an exposure to acyl donor .
an exposure to allelochemical .
an exposure to fuel additive .
an exposure to hepatoprotective agent .
an exposure to ec 1 .2 .3 .1  ( aldehyde oxidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .4 .2 .30  ( nad (  +  )  adp - ribosyltransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to food emulsifier .
an exposure to sphingosine - 1 - phosphate receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 2 .3 .1 .21  ( carnitine o - palmitoyltransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to t - cell proliferation inhibitor .
an exposure to reducing agent .
an exposure to oxidising agent .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .3 .1  ( alkaline phosphatase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to explosive .
an exposure to neuroprotective agent .
an exposure to retinoid x receptor agonist .
an exposure to hsp90 inhibitor .
an exposure to protein kinase c agonist .
an exposure to food additive .
an exposure to food acidity regulator .
an exposure to ec 2 .5 .1 .58  ( protein farnesyltransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .8 .15  ( udp - n - acetylglucosamine -  - dolichyl - phosphate n - acetylglucosaminephosphotransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to maldi matrix material .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .22 .38  ( cathepsin k )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .5 .1 .29  ( geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .3 .1 .43  ( arogenate dehydrogenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to monolignol .
an exposure to ec 2 .1 .2 .1  ( glycine hydroxymethyltransferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to nmda receptor agonist .
an exposure to flour treatment agent .
an exposure to uremic toxin .
an exposure to glycine transporter 1 inhibitor .
an exposure to glycine receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 1 .8 .1 .9  ( thioredoxin reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .4 .11  ( phosphoinositide phospholipase c )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antimitotic .
an exposure to antimycobacterial drug .
an exposure to serine protease inhibitor .
an exposure to anti - hiv agent .
an exposure to anti - hsv - 1 agent .
an exposure to ec 1 .13 .11 .34  ( arachidonate 5 - lipoxygenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .13 .11 .33  ( arachidonate 15 - lipoxygenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .1 .3  ( triacylglycerol lipase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 4 .1 .1 .19  ( arginine decarboxylase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .3 .11  ( fructose - bisphosphatase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to adenosine a1 receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 2 .1 .1 .79  ( cyclopropane - fatty - acyl - phospholipid synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .1 .1 .72  [ site - specific dna - methyltransferase  ( adenine - specific )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to first generation antipsychotic .
an exposure to second generation antipsychotic .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .21 .5  ( thrombin )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antimicrobial food preservative .
an exposure to gaba antagonist .
an exposure to antidyskinesia agent .
an exposure to nootropic agent .
an exposure to radiation protective agent .
an exposure to tocolytic agent .
an exposure to cannabinoid receptor agonist .
an exposure to anti - inflammatory agent .
an exposure to ryanodine receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .24 .3  ( microbial collagenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to gap junctional intercellular communication inhibitor .
an exposure to retinoic acid receptor agonist .
an exposure to ap - 1 antagonist .
an exposure to provitamin a .
an exposure to mtor inhibitor .
an exposure to apoptosis inhibitor .
an exposure to apoptosis inducer .
an exposure to glutathione depleting agent .
an exposure to p2y12 receptor antagonist .
an exposure to progesterone receptor agonist .
an exposure to cell dedifferentiation agent .
an exposure to adenosine a3 receptor antagonist .
an exposure to actin polymerisation inhibitor .
an exposure to aurora kinase inhibitor .
an exposure to capsaicin receptor antagonist .
an exposure to pparalpha agonist .
an exposure to ec 1 .2 .1 .12  [ glyceraldehyde - 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase  ( phosphorylating )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to antileishmanial agent .
an exposure to g - protein - coupled receptor agonist .
an exposure to sir2 inhibitor .
an exposure to prohormone .
an exposure to adenosine receptor antagonist .
an exposure to ec 2 .3 .1 .85  ( fatty acid synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to virulence factor .
an exposure to aryl hydrocarbon receptor agonist .
an exposure to ec 1 .11 .1 .11  ( l - ascorbate peroxidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to plant activator .
an exposure to abscisic acid receptor agonist .
an exposure to nf - kappab inhibitor .
an exposure to cyclooxygenase 3 inhibitor .
an exposure to ultraviolet filter .
an exposure to vulnerary .
an exposure to methionine aminopeptidase 2 inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .17 .4 .1  ( ribonucleoside - diphosphate reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to antidote to paracetamol poisoning .
an exposure to antidote to curare poisoning .
an exposure to astringent .
an exposure to chromogenic compound .
an exposure to ec 5 .4 .3 .2  ( lysine 2 , 3 - aminomutase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ergosterol biosynthesis inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .11 .1 .6  ( catalase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to b vitamin .
an exposure to xenobiotic metabolite .
an exposure to greenhouse gas .
an exposure to nephroprotective agent .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .10 .2  ( non - specific protein - tyrosine kinase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .21 .26  ( prolyl oligopeptidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 2 .5 .1 .18  ( glutathione transferase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .4 .12  ( sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .11 .14  ( cytosol alanyl aminopeptidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .14 .2  ( dipeptidyl - peptidase ii )  inhibitor .
an exposure to xenoestrogen .
an exposure to phytoestrogen .
an exposure to ec 1 .10 .99 .2  [ ribosyldihydronicotinamide dehydrogenase  ( quinone )  ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .3 .41  ( 4 - nitrophenylphosphatase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to expectorant .
an exposure to ec 2 .1 .1 .116  [ 3' - hydroxy - n - methyl -  ( s )  - coclaurine 4' - o - methyltransferase ]  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .189  ( prostaglandin - e2 9 - reductase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to histological dye .
an exposure to food colouring .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .24 .83  ( anthrax lethal factor endopeptidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to cardioprotective agent .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .188  ( prostaglandin - f synthase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .25  ( shikimate dehydrogenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to maillard reaction product .
an exposure to ec 1 .1 .1 .267  ( 1 - deoxy - d - xylulose - 5 - phosphate reductoisomerase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 4 .3 .1 .3  ( histidine ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 3 .4 .19 .3  ( pyroglutamyl - peptidase i )  inhibitor .
an exposure to persistent organic pollutant .
an exposure to ec 4 .3 .1 .15  ( diaminopropionate ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to food antioxidant .
an exposure to food stabiliser .
an exposure to food thickening agent .
an exposure to food packaging gas .
an exposure to food bleaching agent .
an exposure to food gelling agent .
an exposure to food propellant .
an exposure to food component .
an exposure to ec 2 .7 .1 .1  ( hexokinase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to refrigerant .
an exposure to ec 3 .1 .1 .1  ( carboxylesterase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to protein kinase a agonist .
an exposure to adenylate cyclase agonist .
an exposure to fundamental metabolite .
an exposure to plasticiser .
an exposure to phytochrome chromophore .
an exposure to ec 3 .5 .1 .19  ( nicotinamidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to skin lightening agent .
an exposure to ec 1 .10 .3 .1  ( catechol oxidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .10 .3 .2  ( laccase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .13 .11 .24  ( quercetin 2 , 3 - dioxygenase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 1 .4 .3 .3  ( d - amino - acid oxidase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to human blood serum metabolite .
an exposure to antifungal drug .
an exposure to antifungal agrochemical .
an exposure to drug allergen .
an exposure to autophagy inhibitor .
an exposure to ec 6 .4 .1 .1  ( pyruvate carboxylase )  inhibitor .
an exposure to erythropoietin inhibitor .
an exposure to elastin - laminin receptor agonist .
an exposure to antifeedant .
an exposure to chemosterilant .
an exposure to chitin synthesis inhibitor .
an exposure to cytochrome - b6f complex inhibitor .
an exposure to ecdysone antagonists .
an exposure to insect attractant .
an exposure to insect growth regulator .
an exposure to juvenile hormone antagonists .
an exposure to juvenile hormone mimic .
an exposure to pesticide synergist .
an exposure to photosynthetic electron - transport chain inhibitor .
an exposure to photosystem - i inhibitor .
an exposure to photosystem - ii inhibitor .
an exposure to precocenes .
an exposure to pyrethroid insecticide .
an exposure to molluscicide .
an exposure to acaricide drug .
an exposure to ecdysone agonist .
an exposure to carbamate insecticide .
an exposure to pyrethroid ester insecticide .
an exposure to antibiotic insecticide .
an exposure to antibiotic pesticide .
an exposure to antibiotic acaricide .
an exposure to antibiotic nematicide .
an exposure to pyrethroid ester acaricide .
an exposure to fumigant .
an exposure to fumigant insecticide .
an exposure to sulfite ester acaricide .
an exposure to mite growth regulator .
an exposure to tetrazine acaricide .
an exposure to pyrethroid ether insecticide .
an exposure to pyrethroid ether acaricide .
an exposure to homopteran inhibitor of chitin biosynthesis .
an exposure to lepidopteran inhibitor of chitin biosynthesis .
an exposure to dinitrophenol insecticide .
an exposure to antifouling biocide .
an exposure to insect sterilant .
an exposure to insect repellent .
an exposure to scabicide .
an exposure to environmental food contaminant .
an exposure to sex hormone .
an exposure to mu - opioid receptor antagonist .
an exposure to neurotransmitter agent .
an exposure to food preservative .
an exposure to flame retardant .
an exposure to methane .
an exposure to protein .
an exposure to low - density lipoprotein .
an exposure to high - density lipoprotein .
an exposure to urea .
an exposure to anilofos .
an exposure to glyphosate .
an exposure to nitrile .
an exposure to poly ( chloroprene )  polymer .
an exposure to epoxy group .
an exposure to polyimide polymer .
an exposure to acid .
an exposure to chlorinated naphthalene .
an exposure to polycyclic hydrocarbon .
an enclosure for displaying selected plant or animal life .
an area of land which is used for the cultivation of crops or grazing of livestock ,  including any agricultural constructions therein .
a field which is located on land and used for agricultural purposes ,  such as the grazing of livestock or the cultivation of crops .
a facility ,  permanent or temporary ,  on land ,  in air ,  space or water ,  where scientific research or measurements can be undertaken .
a hospital is a building in which health care services are  provided by specialized staff and equipment .
a building in which a business presents a selection of goods and offers to trade or sell them to customers for money or other goods .
a portion of soil which is found in a garden .
organic matter ,  mostly animal feces ,  that is used as organic fertilizer in agriculture .
tap water is water supplied to a tap  ( valve )  .
a portion of soil which is part of a cropland or a rangeland biome .
a facility in which animals are confined within enclosures and displayed to the public ,  and in which they may also be bred .
a cropland ecosystem in which dominant ecological communities are maintained in a stable state  -  mimicking a climax community  -  by human intervention .
a village biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which contains settlements such as villages ,  towns ,  and / or small cities and which is primarily used for agricultural activity .
a rangeland biome is an anthropogenic terrestrial biome which is primarily used for the rearing and grazing of livestock .
an unbroken expanse  ( as of ice ) 
the system of public works in a country ,  state or region ,  including roads ,  utility lines and public buildings .
a building which is publically accessible .
a petting zoo is a zoological garden which contains domesticated non - human animals and some wild non - human animals that are docile enough for humans to touch and feed .
a facility in which non - human animals are slaughtered and processed for human consumption .
a building within which food and drink are prepared and served to customers in exchange for money or other goods and / or services .
a part of an ecosystem which may be or has been used for one or more overnight stays by humans sheltering in tents ,  camper vans ,  caravans ,  or improvised shelters .
a building which is primarily used to facilitate the buying or selling of goods or services .
a building part within which administrative work is done by an organisations users in order to support and realise the objectives of that organization .
an ecosystem which 1 )  is determined by communities of annual crops ,  perennial woody crops ,  or by actively tilled land ,  2 )  is primarily used for agricultural activity ,  and 3 )  contains no village or larger human settlement .
a process during which humans rear animals or plants on land for harvest and consumption .
an anthropogenic environment which is bounded by the building envelope of a laboratory and in which a system of manufactured products exert control on one or more of its environmental conditions .
a research facility in which systems of manufactured products control internal conditions and in which scientific or technological research ,  experiments ,  and measurement may be performed .
a land conversion process during which terrestrial ecosystems are altered to facilitate agricultural activities such as crop cultivation or the rearing of livestock .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment supports 1 )  enterprises concerned with the provision to the public of essentials ,  such as electricity or water or 2 )  the basic network or foundation of capital facilities or community investments which are necessary to support economic and community activities .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment supports welfare activities organised by the state or a local authority and carried out by trained personnel .
a planned environmental usage process during which an environment supports facilities associated with commerce or the earning of a livelihood through means other than manufacturing or the provision of a public service .
food material for humans and animals which is processed with the intention that it be consumable as a whole or added to other food products .
a food product made of meat ,  the skeletal muscle and associated fat ,  and other edible tissues such as organs ,  livers ,  skin ,  brains ,  bone marrow ,  kidneys ,  or lungs ,  of mammals .
a fermentation process in which either carbohydrates ,  proteins or fats are modified through microbial ,  enzymatic and / or other biological process .
fermented meat product is any product made primarily of meat subjected to a fermentation process .
a food product which normally exists as an ingredient to another food product ,  rather than eaten on its own ,  and is more complex than a chemical food component .
a food product consisting of food material derived primarily from a single organism .
any substance that can be consumed by an organism to satisfy nutritional or other health needs ,  or to provide a social or organoleptic food experience
a food product consisting of food material derived from ingredients sourced from multiple organisms .
a food product organized by the process which it results from .
a multiple - component food product typically containing a protein source ,  a vegetable ,  and a potato ,  rice or cereal - based component packaged to be served after heating ,  either as separate items or courses or mixed as recipe components ;  see 21 cfr 102 .26 ,  102 .28 and 104 .47 for nutritional quality guidelines .
substance having less than 2% of the caloric value of sucrose per equivalent unit of sweetening capacity .
meat  ( flesh and organs including blood and bone marrow )  from mammals .
food group having common consumption ,  functional or manufacturing characteristics ,  e .g .
an agency food product type is a class of food product defined by an agency or consortium .
this category includes: carcass meat of mammals and birds ;  offal of mammals and birds ;  a food product whose predominant constituent is meat ;  a recipe dish whose main ingredient is considered to be meat .
the group includes carcass meat of domestic animals  ( e .g .
food and drugs ,  title 21 ,  code of federal regulations .
any chemical or chemical mixture that exists in a food material or was added to a food material .
this is a hierarchy of organisms ,  grouped minimally in a combination of taxonomy and consumer - oriented food groups .
anatomical part of the plant or animal from which a food product or its major ingredient is derived .
the parts of a plant that are not fruit or seed .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing sulfur ,  comprising cysteine ,  homocysteine ,  methionine and selenocysteine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the circulatory system .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purines .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleobases ,  one of the two classes of nitrogen - containing ring compounds found in dna and rna ,  which include adenine and guanine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  carboxylic acids containing one or more amino groups ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving leucine ,  2 - amino - 4 - methylpentanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving methionine  ( 2 - amino - 4 -  ( methylthio ) butanoic acid )  ,  a sulfur - containing ,  essential amino acid found in peptide linkage in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving l - phenylalanine ,  the l - enantiomer of 2 - amino - 3 - phenylpropanoic acid ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving of any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in organic solvents and relatively insoluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
reactions ,  triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the occurrence of an injury ,  which result in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention / recovery from the infection caused by the attack .
the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
the whole of the physical ,  chemical ,  and biochemical processes carried out by multicellular organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the act of bringing an object or substance into the body by swallowing ,  surrounding or absorbing it  [ nbo:smac ] 
the flow of blood through the body of an animal ,  enabling the transport of nutrients to the tissues and the removal of waste products .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the aspartate family ,  comprising asparagine ,  aspartate ,  lysine ,  methionine and threonine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic amino acid family ,  amino acids with aromatic ring  ( phenylalanine ,  tyrosine ,  tryptophan )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing a branched carbon skeleton ,  comprising isoleucine ,  leucine and valine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase ,  a nitrogenous base that is a constituent of a nucleic acid ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sterols ,  steroids with one or more hydroxyl groups and a hydrocarbon side - chain in the molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tetrapyrroles ,  natural pigments containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform amines .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a carbohydrate within an organism or cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed ,  either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamin d ,  any of a group of related ,  fat - soluble compounds that are derived from delta - 5 , 7 steroids and play a central role in calcium metabolism .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within an organism or cell .
the specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of food ,  any substance  ( usually solid )  that can be metabolized by an organism to give energy and build tissue .
the specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of liquids ,  especially water .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur ,  the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any oxoacid ;  an oxoacid is a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleobases .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine bases .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response ,  the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions within an organism or cell .
any process in which nutrients are taken up from the contents of the intestine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of phosphate ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of anions within an organism or cell .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase - containing small molecule: a nucleobase ,  a nucleoside ,  or a nucleotide .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of trivalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations within an organism or cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of inorganic ions within an organism or cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cobalamin metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cobalamin metabolic process .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an alpha - amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic hydroxy compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving erythrose 4 - phosphate / phosphoenolpyruvate family amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving secondary alcohol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
deviation from the norm of height with respect to that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
an abnormality of the female internal genitalia .
dysfunction of the urinary bladder .
underdevelopment of the uterus .
an abnormality of the urinary bladder .
an abnormality of the male internal genitalia .
the presence of inflammation of the epididymis .
an abnormality of male external genitalia .
an anomaly of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
abnormality of the male external sex organ .
penile length more than 2 sd above the mean for age .
lack of external genitalia in a male or female individual .
underdevelopment of part or all of the male external reproductive organs  ( which include the penis ,  the scrotum and the urethra )  .
the presence of abnormally large testes .
an abnormality of the female external genitalia .
an abnormality of the clitoris .
developmental hypoplasia of the clitoris .
an abnormality of the ureter .
an abnormality of the kidney .
an abnormality of the genital system .
an abnormality of the urinary system .
an abnormal functionality of the genital system .
hypoplasia of the kidney .
a height above that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
agenesis ,  that is ,  failure of the kidney to develop during embryogenesis and development .
an abnormal increase in the size of the kidney .
a phenotypic abnormality .
the presence of any abnormality of the genitourinary system .
the presence of inflammation affecting the kidney .
an abnormality of the uterus .
an abnormality of the ovary .
aplasia of the uterus .
an abnormality of head and neck .
an abnormality of the mouth .
an abnormality of the lip .
abnormality of the oral cavity ,  i .e . ,  the opening or hollow part of the mouth .
an abnormality of the lower lip .
a facial appearance characterized by a permanently or nearly permanently opened mouth .
the presence of a cleft in the oral cavity ,  the two main types of which are cleft lip and cleft palate .
an abnormality of the head .
any abnormality of the fontanelles  ( the regions covered by a thick membrane that normally ossify in the first two years of life )  or the cranial sutures  ( the fibrous joints in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the skull are connected by sutural ligaments )  .
in newborns ,  the two frontal bones ,  two parietal bones ,  and one occipital bone are joined by fibrous sutures ,  which form a small posterior fontanelle ,  and a larger ,  diamond - shaped anterior fontanelle .
any abnormality of the size of the skull .
an abnormality of the face .
a face that is short  ( hp:0011219 )  and narrow  ( hp:0000275 )  .
facial height  ( length )  is more than 2 standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or ,  an apparent increase in the height  ( length )  of the face  ( subjective )  .
an increased amount of subcutaneous fat tissue in the face .
an anomaly of a muscle that is innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
an abnormality of the inner ear .
an abnormality of the nose .
abnormality of the choanae  ( the posterior nasal apertures )  .
epistaxis ,  or nosebleed ,  refers to a hemorrhage localized in the nose .
an abnormality of the ala of nose .
thinned ,  deficient ,  or excessively arched ala nasi .
an abnormality of the neck .
an increased amount of subcutaneous fat tissue around the neck .
diminished length of the neck .
increased inferior - superior length of the neck .
any abnormality of the eye ,  including location ,  spacing ,  and intraocular abnormalities .
a structural abnormality of the retina .
a notch or cleft of the retina .
any abnormality of the cornea ,  which is the transparent tissue at the front of the eye that covers the iris ,  pupil ,  and anterior chamber .
a congenital abnormality of the cornea in which the cornea and the anterior segment of the eye are smaller than normal .
an enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function .
an abnormality of the lens .
an abnormality of the iris ,  which is the pigmented muscular tissue between the cornea and the lens ,  that is perforated by an opening called the pupil .
abnormality of the iris characterized by ,  typically bilateral ,  complete or partial iris hypoplasia .
absence of the globe or eyeball .
an abnormality of the choroid and retina .
an abnormality of the uvea ,  the vascular layer of the eyeball .
inflammation of one or all portions of the uveal tract .
a developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal smallness of one or both eyes .
hemorrhage occurring within the retina .
a developmental defect characterized by a cleft of some portion of the eye or ocular adnexa .
an abnormality of the sclera .
abnormality of the anterior chamber ,  which is the space in the eye that is behind the cornea and in front of the iris .
an abnormality of the ear .
an anomaly of the pharynx ,  i .e . ,  of the tubular structure extending from the base of the skull superiorly to the esophageal inlet inferiorly .
any structural abnormality of the choroid .
a coloboma of the iris .
atrophy of the eyeball with blindness and decreased intraocular pressure due to end - stage intraocular disease .
an abnormality of the nervous system .
an abnormality of mental functioning including various affective ,  behavioural ,  cognitive and perceptual abnormalities .
a structural abnormality of the peripheral nervous system ,  which is composed of the nerves that lead to or branch off from the central nervous system .
any abnormality of the thorax  ( the region of the body formed by the sternum ,  the thoracic vertebrae and the ribs )  .
an anomaly of the rib .
reduced rib length .
any abnormality of the scapula ,  also known as the shoulder blade .
the presence of blood in the urine .
an abnormality of the urethra ,  i .e . ,  of the tube which connects the urinary bladder to the outside of the body .
an anomaly of the adnexa ,  uterus ,  and vagina  ( in female )  or seminal tract and prostate  ( in male )  .
an abnormality of the endocrine system .
underdeveloped scapula .
malformation of the rib cage .
a developmental anomaly with absence of one or more ribs .
an abnormality of the skeletal system .
any abnormality of the vertebral column .
an abnormality of the skull ,  the bony framework of the head which is comprised of eight cranial and fourteen facial bones .
an abnormality of the skin .
eczema is a form of dermatitis .
diffusely large eye  ( with megalocornea )  without glaucoma .
any structural abnormality of the fundus of the eye .
inflammation of the iris .
any abnormality of the size or morphology of the cornea .
an abnormality affecting one or both hands .
an abnormality of the placenta  ( the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall )  or of the umbilical cord  ( the cord that connects the fetus to the placenta )  .
decreased length of the umbilical cord .
an abnormality of the fetus or the birth of the fetus ,  excluding structural abnormalities .
inflammation of the meninges .
structural abnormality affecting one or more of the cranial nerves ,  which emerge directly from the brain stem .
hemorrhage into the parenchyma of the brain .
an abnormal structure or form of the joints ,  i .e . ,  one or more of the articulations where two bones join .
inflammation of a joint .
a flexion contracture is a bent  ( flexed )  joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
a reduction in the freedom of movement of one or more joints .
the ability of a joint to move beyond its normal range of motion .
an anomaly of the musculature of foot .
a structural abnormality of the abdomen  ( 'belly' )  ,  that is ,  the part of the body between the pelvis and the thorax .
absence or underdevelopment of the musculature .
absence or underdevelopment of the muscles of the shoulder .
absence or underdevelopment of the musculature of the upper limbs .
absence or underdevelopment of the muscles of the upper arm .
failure to thrive  ( ftt )  refers to a child whose physical growth is substantially below the norm .
a deficiency or slowing down of growth pre -  and postnatally .
a morphological anomaly of the rib cage .
an abnormality of the integument ,  which consists of the skin and the superficial fascia .
an abnormality of the larynx .
any abnormality of the cardiovascular system .
any structural anomaly of the heart .
a hole between the two bottom chambers  ( ventricles )  of the heart .
atrial septal defect  ( asd )  is a congenital abnormality of the interatrial septum that enables blood flow between the left and right atria via the interatrial septum .
a structural anomaly of the muscle layer of the heart wall .
increased size of the heart ,  clinically defined as an increased transverse diameter of the cardiac silhouette that is greater than or equal to 50% of the transverse diameter of the chest  ( increased cardiothoracic ratio )  on a posterior - anterior projection of a chest radiograph or a computed tomography .
an anomaly of the intra - atrial or intraventricular septum .
an abnormality of the aorta .
an abnormality of the pericardium ,  i .e . ,  of the fluid filled sac that surrounds the heart and the proximal ends of the aorta ,  vena cava ,  and the pulmonary artery .
inflammation of the sac - like covering around the heart  ( pericardium )  .
an abnormality of the right ventricle of the heart .
any structural abnormality of the left ventricle of the heart .
an abnormality of a cardiac ventricle .
an abnormality of the skeleton of foot .
a measured foot length that is more than 2 sd below the mean for a newborn of 27  -  41 weeks gestation ,  or foot that is less than the 3rd centile for individuals from birth to 16 years of age  ( objective )  .
increased back to front length of the foot .
an abnormality of the hematopoietic system .
an abnormal susceptibility to bleeding ,  often referred to as a bleeding diathesis .
an increased concentration of ammonia in the blood .
excretion of non - amino organic acids in urine .
an abnormal morphology  ( form )  of the face or its components .
a structural abnormality of the central nervous system .
abnormally increased frequency of loose or watery bowel movements .
impaired ability to absorb one or more nutrients from the intestine .
an abnormaltiy of the rectum ,  the final segment of the large intestine that stores solid waste until it passes through the anus .
inflammation ,  or an inflammatory state in the large intestine .
an abnormality of the respiratory system ,  which include the airways ,  lungs ,  and the respiratory muscles .
an abnormality of the upper respiratory tract .
any structural anomaly of the lung .
inflammation of any part of the lung parenchyma .
an abnormality of the pulmonary pleura ,  the thin ,  transparent membrane which covers the lungs and lines the inside of the chest walls .
an abnormality of the spinal cord  ( myelon )  .
an abnormally decreased phosphate concentration in the blood .
an abnormally increased potassium concentration in the blood .
an abnormal increase in the level of triglycerides in the blood .
an increased concentration of nitrogen compounds in the blood .
hemorrhage occurring within the skull .
hemorrhage affecting the gastrointestinal tract .
an abnormality of the intestine .
an abnormality of the small intestine .
the passage of blackish ,  tarry feces associated with gastrointestinal hemorrhage .
any abnormality of the large intestine .
an abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
an anomaly of the brainstem .
underdevelopment of the brainstem .
an abnormality of the midbrain ,  which has as its parts the tectum ,  cerebral peduncle ,  midbrain tegmentum and cerebral aqueduct .
greater than normal amounts of fat in the feces .
colitis refers to an inflammation of the colon and is often used to describe an inflammation of the large intestine  ( colon ,  cecum and rectum )  .
bleeding from the intestines .
an abnormality of the vasculature .
an anomaly of vein .
abnormality of the absorption of fat from the gastrointestinal tract .
an abnormality of the bony pelvic girdle ,  which is a ring of bones connecting the vertebral column to the femurs .
the presence of an abnormal shape of the calvaria  ( skullcap )  ,  that is ,  of that part of the skull that is made up of the superior portions of the frontal bone ,  occipital bone ,  and parietal bones and covers the cranial cavity that contains the brain .
an abnormal narrowing of the foramen magnum .
abnormality of the calvaria ,  which is the roof of the skull formed by the frontal bone ,  parietal bones ,  and occipital bone .
any abnormality of the foramen magnum .
an abnormal increase in the size of the foramen magnum .
an abnormality of the immune system .
osteomyelitis is an inflammatory process accompanied by bone destruction and caused by an infecting microorganism .
any morphological abnormality of cartilage .
any abnormality of bones of the arms or legs .
an abnormality of the leg .
an abnormality of the arm .
any anomaly of the structure of the femur .
an abnormally decreased potassium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally decreased calcium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally increased phosphate concentration in the blood .
an abnormality of the lower arm .
absence or underdevelopment of tissue in the central nervous system .
an abnormality of the calf ,  i .e .
the presence of abnormally small extremities .
a chronic loss of elbow joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevent normal movement of the joints of the elbow .
abnormality originating in one or more muscles ,  i .e . ,  of the set of muscles of body .
one or more abnormally short long bone .
increase in size of one or more joints .
an abnormality of the shoulder ,  which is defined as the structures surrounding the shoulder joint where the humerus attaches to the scapula .
chronic reduction in active and passive mobility of the shoulder joint due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevents normal movement .
an abnormality of the humerus  ( i .e . ,  upper arm bone )  .
an abnormally increased calcium concentration in the blood .
an increased concentration of glucose in the urine .
an elevated lipid concentration in the blood .
an increased concentration of potassium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
an abnormal shortening of the femur .
any deviation from the normal concentration of cholesterol in the blood circulation .
an increased excretion of phosphates in the urine .
an abnormality of the composition of urine or the levels of its components .
abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of a monoatomic ion .
the presence of an abnormal decrease or increase of one or more amino acids in the blood circulation .
an abnormal concentration of a hormone in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a lipid in the blood circulation .
a contrqacture  ( chronic loss of joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin )  that prevent normal movement of one or more joints of the limbs .
an increased concentration of cholesterol in the blood .
an abnormally decreased calcium concentration in the urine .
an decreased concentration of cholesterol in the blood .
increased excretion of oxalates in the urine .
distance from nasion to subnasale more than two standard deviations above the mean ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently increased length from the nasal root to the nasal base .
distance from nasion to subnasale more than two standard deviations below the mean ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently decreased length from the nasal root to the nasal tip .
an increased concentration of dicarboxylic acid in the urine .
an increased concentration of methionine in the blood .
underdevelopment of part or all of the external reproductive organs .
abnormal increased size of the viscera of the abdomen .
abnormal morphology of vertebral body .
any abnormality of the cervical vertebral column .
any anomaly in the composite material or the layered arrangement of the bony skeleton .
an increased concentration of an amino acid in the urine .
an abnormality of one or more of the vertebrae .
a kind of short stature in which different regions of the body are shortened to differing extents .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short trunk but a average - sized limbs .
a reduction in methionine synthase activity .
any abnormality of the soft tissues ,  including both connective tissue  ( tendons ,  ligaments ,  fascia ,  fibrous tissues ,  and fat )  .
increased concentration of trimethylamine in the urine .
loss  ( disappearance )  of previously present subcutaneous fat tissue in arm or leg .
a decreased concentration of methionine in the blood .
a reduced amount of fat tissue in the lowest layer of the integument .
absence of one or more forearm bones associated with congenital failure of development .
the total absence of the hand ,  with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna .
the presence of any abnormality affecting the abdominal wall .
any abnormality of the skeletal muscle cell .
an abnormality of the endocardium .
a height below that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
an abnormal increase or decrease of weight or an abnormal distribution of mass in the body .
abnormally increased body weight .
abnormally low body weight .
an abnormality of the anterior segment of the eyeball  ( which comprises the structures in front of the vitreous humour: the cornea ,  iris ,  ciliary body ,  and lens )  .
abnormality of an amino acid metabolic process .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a aromatic amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a sulfur amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a purine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carboxylic acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal circulation of leucine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of calcium in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a nitrogen compound in the blood circulation .
abnormally elevated concentration of a purine compound .
abnormally reduced concentration of a purine compound .
abnormality of the anal canal .
underdevelopment of the left side of the heart .
inflammation of the alimentary part of the gastrointestinal system .
a colon of abnormally small caliber .
an abnormality of the pulmonary artery .
increased top to bottom height of vertebral bodies .
reduced size of cervical vertebrae .
underdevelopment of one or more muscles innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
underdevelopment or reduced size of the heart right ventricle ,  often due to a reduced number of cells .
underdevelopment of the small intestine .
an abnormally elevated blood pressure in the circulation of the pulmonary artery .
an increased concentration of l - phenylalanine in the blood .
a congenital defect with aplasia  ( absence )  of one of the right or left pulmonary artery .
underdevelopment of the pulmonary artery .
any structural abnormality of a cardiac atrium .
underdeveloped ,  small left heart atrium
absence of the abdominal musculature .
underdevelopment of the colon .
a collection of pus in the area of the rectum .
developmental hypoplasia of the intestine .
underdevelopment of the abdominal musculature .
hemorrhage occurring within a joint .
abnormality of the nostril .
a developmental defect characterized by the lack of formation of the pulmonary blood vessels .
underdevelopment of the urinary bladder .
any structural abnormality of the carotid arteries ,  including the common carotid artery and its' arterial branches .
an abnormality of the structure of the veins that return deoxygenated blood from the body into the heart ,  i .e . ,  the superior vena cava and the inferior vena cava .
normally ,  the posterior and lateral fontanelles are obliterated by about six months after birth ,  the anterior fontanelle closes by about the middle of the second year .
a fontanelle that is small for age .
absence or underdevelopment of the femur .
underdevelopment of both forearm bones ,  the ulna and the radius ,  resulting in a shortened forearm .
underdevelopment of the humerus .
the presence of more than 12 rib pairs .
any structural anomaly of the hand .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the bones of the hand .
reduced amount of adipose tissue in the region of the neck .
reduced size of the placenta .
increased size of the placenta .
shortening of the legs related to developmental hypoplasia of the bones of the leg .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the bones of the lower limbs .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the bones of the upper limbs .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of one or more forearm bones .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the humerus .
lack of development of the glenoid fossa ,  also known as the glenoid cavity ,  which is the articular surface of the scapula that articulates with the head of the humerus .
underdevelopment of the glenoid fossa ,  which is the cavity in the lateral part of the scapula which articulates with the head of the humerus .
a morphological abnormality of the metencephalon .
agenesis of the midbrain .
an abnormality of the pons .
lack of subcutaneous adipose tissue .
congenital underdevelopment of the iris .
abnormal development  ( dysgenesis )  of the anterior segment of the eye globe .
underdevelopment of the ciliary body .
a structural abnormality of retinal vasculature .
absence or underdevelopment of the iris .
absence or underdevelopment of the uvea ,  the pigmented middle layer of the eye consisting of the iris and ciliary body together with the choroid .
absence or underdevelopment of the anterior segment of the eye .
absence or underdevelopment of the lens .
an increased concentration of a branched chain amino acid in the blood .
small ,  underdeveloped vertebral bodies .
a developmental defect characterized by agenesis of one or more vertebral bodies .
absence of sex glands  ( gonads are the organs that produce gametes ;  testis in males and ovary in females )  .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the fallopian tube .
absence or underdevelopment of the kidney .
absence or developmental hypoplasia of the uterus .
developmental hypoplasia of the fallopian tube .
developmental hypoplasia of the ovary .
reduced volume of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
underdevelopment of the larynx .
a malformation of the laryngeal cartilage .
the presence of aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the ear .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the inner ear .
any structural abnormality of the renal artery .
a decreased ability to move the femur at the hip joint associated with a decreased range of motion of the hip .
underdevelopment of the bony pelvis .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short limbs but an average - sized trunk .
a loss of adipose tissue .
underdevelopment of muscles of the shoulder .
underdevelopment of the muscuklature of the calf .
underdevelopment of muscles of the neck .
an abnormal increase in the amount of intramuscular fat tissue .
an abnormal increase in the amount of intraabdominal fat tissue .
loss  ( reduction of previously present )  of subcutaneous adipose tissue in the region of the trunk .
the presence of an abnormally increased amount of subcutaneous adipose tissue in the trunk of the body .
underdevelopment of the musculature .
underdevelopment of muscles of the arm .
the presence of an abnormally increased amount of connective tissue .
an abnormal accumulation of lipids in skeletal muscle .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of one or more components of the skeleton .
an abnormality of the axial skeleton ,  which comprises the skull ,  the vertebral column ,  the ribs and the sternum .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of bones of the axial skeleton .
an abnormality of adipose tissue ,  which is loose connective tissue composed of adipocytes .
an increase in adipose tissue mass by hyperplastic growth  ( increase in the number of adipocytes )  or by hypertrophic growth  ( increase in the size of adipocytes occurring primarily by lipid accumulation within the cell )  .
a disease or lesion affecting the muscles of the thorax .
contractures of one ore more joints of the hands meaning chronic loss of joint motion due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
underdevelopment of the pharynx .
an abnormality of the epididymis .
an abnormality of the spinal dura mater ,  which is the outermost of the three layers of the meninges surrounding the spinal cord .
absence or underdevelopment involving the musculature of the thigh .
an anomaly of the joint that connects the upper and the lower arm .
peromelia affecting only the upper limbs .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the extremities .
leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity .
peromelia affecting only the lower limbs .
forearm shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the forearm .
arm shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the upper extremity .
limb shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the extremities .
the distal parts of the limbs are missing leading to a stump formation .
abnormality of the temporal bone of the skull ,  which is situated at the sides and base of the skull roughly underlying the region of the face known as the temple .
underdevelopment or absence of the nose or parts thereof .
the presence of only a single nostril .
the presence of more than two nostrils .
stomatitis is an inflammation of the mucous membranes of any of the structures in the mouth .
a gap in the lower lip .
any abnormality of the spinal meninges ,  the system of membranes  ( dura mater ,  the arachnoid mater ,  and the pia mater )  which envelops the spinal cord .
reduced inferior to superior extent of the thorax .
absence or underdevelopment of the abdominal musculature .
a structural abnormality of the interventricular septum .
abnormality of the female genital system .
abnormality of the male genital system .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the ovary .
absence or underdevelopment of the testes .
the presence of more than two testes .
absence or underdevelopment of the urinary bladder .
abnormality of the nasal cavity  ( the cavity includes and starts at the nares and reaches all the way through to the and includes the choanae ,  the posterior nasal apertures )  .
an abnormality of the meninges ,  including any abnormality of the dura mater ,  the arachnoid mater ,  and the pia mater .
an abnormality of the dura mater .
a developmental defect characterized by absence of the retina .
the presence of an abnormally large pelvis .
any structural abormality of the fifth cranial nerve .
abnormality of the eleventh cranial nerve .
abnormality of the seventh cranial nerve sometimes also referred to as the facial nerve .
an incomplete closure of the abdominal wall .
an abnormality of the umbilical cord ,  which is the cord connecting the developing embryo or fetus to the placenta .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a branched chain family amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of phenylalanine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of an aspartate family amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of methionine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a glutamine family amino acid in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of leucine in the blood .
an abnormality of divalent inorganic cation homeostasis .
an abnormality of cation homeostasis .
an abnormality of monovalent inorganic cation homeostasis .
an abnormality of a nucleobase metabolic process .
an abnormality of the upper urinary tract .
an abnormality of the lower urinary tract .
an abnormality of the nasal skeleton .
an abnormality of the external nose .
an abnormality of the renal pelvis .
mild pyelectasis is defined as a hypoechoic spherical or elliptical space within the renal pelvis that measures at least 5mm and not more than 10 mm .
underdevelopment of the right - sided structures of the heart .
a functional abnormality of the immune system .
an abnormality of the abdominal musculature .
an abnormality of the systemic arterial tree ,  which consists of the aorta and other systemic arteries .
an abnormality of the neck musculature .
a deviation from the normal concentration of a carbohydrate in the blood circulation .
abnormality of glucose homeostasis .
an abnormality of the concentration of glucose in the blood .
an abnormality of the concentration of glucose in the urine .
an abnormality of the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormal functionality of the cardiovascular system .
an abnormality of the fallopian tube .
an abnormality of blood circulation .
the presence of hemorrhage within the body .
an abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of transition element cation .
an abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of iron cation .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the cervical vertebral column .
an abnormal concentration of potassium .
an abnormality of the outflow tract of the left ventricle .
any morphological abnormality of the skin .
any abnormality of the physiological function of the skin .
the presence of inflammation of the skin .
an abnormality of the morphology of the epidermis .
an abnormality of the skin adnexa  ( skin appendages )  ,  which are specialized skin structures located within the dermis and focally within the subcutaneous fatty tissue ,  comprising three histologically distinct structures:  ( 1 )  the pilosebaceous unit  ( hair follicle and sebaceous glands )  ;   ( 2 )  the eccrine sweat glands ;  and  ( 3 )  the apocrine glands .
an abnormal shape of occiput .
facial height  ( length )  is more than two standard deviations below the mean  ( objective )  ;  or an apparent decrease in the height  ( length )  of the face  ( subjective )  .
an abnormality of calcium concentration in the urine .
an abnormality of the hindbrain ,  also known as the rhombencephalon .
an abnormality of the metencephalon .
the total absence of the foot ,  with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula .
an abnormality of size or shape of the long bones .
an abnormality of the fontanelle .
any anomaly of a cranial suture ,  that is one of the six membrane - covered openings in the incompletely ossified skull of the fetus or newborn infant .
an abnormality of the outline ,  configuration ,  or contour of the mouth .
an abnormality of the skin that is not localized to any one particular region .
a lesion of the skin that is located in a specific region rather than being generalized .
absence of the inner ear due to a developmental defect .
an abnormality of the function of the inner ear .
a structural anomaly of the internal part of the ear .
increased length of the umbilical cord .
an finding upon obstetric ultrasound examination performed at around 16 to 20 weeks of gestation that is abnormal but not clearly identifiable as a fetal anatomic malformation or growth restriction .
an abnormality of the medulla oblongata ,  the lower half of the brainstem .
a type of infection of the central nervous system that can be regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection .
a subjective manifestation of disease localized to the abdomen .
abnormality of the corneal endothelium ,  that is ,  the single layer of cells on the inner surface of the cornea .
abnormality of the corneal epithelium ,  that is of the epithelial tissue that covers the front of the cornea .
an abnormal shape of the lens .
a developmental defect of the pericardium with congenital onset .
no pericardium around the heart ,  occurring as a congenital defect ,  not the result of a surgical pericardectomy .
an abnormality of the pulmonary veins .
defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the right heart identifiable at birth .
an abnormality in the range and ease of motion of joints across their normal range .
a functional abnormality of a skeletal muscle .
a structural abnormality of a skeletal muscle .
an abnormality of one or more of the set of bones that make up the facial skeleton .
abnormality of the oral mucosa .
an abnormality of the form ,  structure ,  or size of the skeletal system .
an abnormality of the function of the skeletal system .
an abnormality of the appendicular skeletal system ,  consisting of the of the limbs ,  shoulder and pelvic girdles .
any structural anomaly of the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity .
bleeding from vessels of the various tissues of the eye .
hemorrhage from the vessels of the choroid .
an anomaly of the glenoid fossa ,  also known as the glenoid cavity ,  which is the articular surface of the scapula that articulates with the head of the humerus .
an infection of the upper or lower respiratory tract .
an abnormality of the interatrial septum .
excretion of urine with an acid ph ,  i .e . ,  having an increased hydrogen ion concentration .
underdevelopment of the pons .
an abnormality of the concentration of a glucocorticoid in the blood .
an decrease in the level of triglycerides in the blood .
any structural anomaly of the kidney .
an abnormal functionality of the kidney .
a structural or developmental anomaly of any of the tissues involved in the genital system .
a structural anomaly of the respiratory system .
any structural anomaly of the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi .
abnormality of the occipital bone of the skull .
a structural abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
a functional abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
an abnormality of the metabolism of folic acid ,  which is also known as vitamin b9 .
an anomaly in the processes involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium .
a decreased concentration of potassium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
an abnormally decreased phosphate concentration in the urine .
a structural anomaly of the globe of the eye ,  or bulbus oculi .
a functional anomaly of the eye .
an altered ability of any enzyme or their cofactors to act as catalysts .
an abnormality of the partial pressure of oxygen or carbon dioxide in the arterial blood .
an inflammation of the choroid and retina .
a structural abnormality of the brain ,  which has as its parts the forebrain ,  midbrain ,  and hindbrain .
inflammation of the spinal cord .
inflammation of adipose tissue .
an abnormality in the concentration of electrolytes in the urine .
an abnormal concentration of potassium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
an abnormal phosphate concentration in the urine .
an anomalous finding in the examination of the urine for cells .
a developmental anomaly associated with the failure of rectum ,  vagina ,  and bladder to separate .
a functional anomaly of the nervous system .
a structural anomaly of the nervous system .
increase in size of a peripheral nerve .
any anomaly of the inflammatory response ,  a response to injury or infection characterized by local vasodilation ,  extravasation of plasma into intercellular spaces and accumulation of white blood cells and macrophages .
an abnormal reduction in the inflammatory response to injury or infection .
a abnormal increase in the inflammatory response to injury or infection .
an abnormal build up of iron  ( fe )  in brain tissue .
a functional anomaly of the large intestine .
abnormal structure of the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormal functionality of the gastrointestinal tract .
a vascular malformation resulting from a developmental error of venous tissue composed of dysmorphic channels lined by flattened endothelium and exhibiting slow turnover .
an abnormality of the anus or rectum .
failure of the femur to develop .
a deviation from normal size of the placenta .
a structural anomaly of the ciliary body .
underdevelopment of part or all of the female external reproductive organs  ( which include the mons pubis ,  labia majora ,  labia minora ,  bartholin glands ,  and clitoris )  .
inflammation of the myocardium .
bleeding from the small intestine .
an abnormal functionality of the male genital system .
a coloboma of the ciliary body .
a structural anomaly of the tiny blood vessels that connect arterioles with venules and whose walls act as semipermeable membranes that mediate the diffusion of fluids and gases between the blood circulation and body tissues .
a functional anomaly of the tiny blood vessels that connect arterioles with venules and whose walls act as semipermeable membranes that mediate the diffusion of fluids and gases between the blood circulation and body tissues .
a functional anomaly of the digestive system .
a structural anomaly of the digestive system .
a collection of pus within a testicle .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in lung parenchyma ,  which leads to a cavity ,  and after formation of bronchopulmonary fistula ,  can manifest as an air - fluid level inside the cavity .
passage of many stools containing blood .
an anomaly of arterial function .
an anomaly of the margin of the cornea overlapped by the sclera .
an anomaly of cellular morphology or physiology .
any anomaly of the structure of the larynx .
any anomaly of the function of the larynx .
inflammation  ( due to infection or irritation )  of the pharynx .
any anomaly of cell structure .
any structural anomaly of the bladder .
any structural anomaly of the principal vein draining blood from the upper portion of the body and delivering it to the right ventricle of the heart .
any structural anomaly of the principal vein draining blood from the lower portion of the body .
any structural abnormality of the left atrium .
any structural abnormality of the right atrium .
a structural abnormality of the ureter .
a functional abnormality of the ureter .
a collection of pus ,  immune cells ,  and other material in the brain .
an anomaly of the inner mucous membrane of the uterus .
abnormality of vascular function .
abnormalities of the overall muscle bulk based on clinical observation .
lack of recognizable penile structures .
a deviation from the normal number of vertebrae in the spinal column .
a structural anomaly of the adjacent structures  ( i .e . ,  adnexa )  of the eye ,  defined as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva .
any structural anomaly of the heart and great vessels .
increase in size of the right atrium .
an anomaly of venous function .
a functional anomaly of that portion of the cardiosvascular system that carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood back to the heart .
a structural anomaly affecting a blood vessel involved in the circulation of the heart ,  i .e . ,  the superior or inferior vena cava ,  the pulmonary arteries ,  the pulmonary veins ,  and the aorta .
an abnormality of the structure of the pulmonary artery .
an abnormality of the structure of the pulmonary veins .
an abnormality of the function of the pulmonary veins .
any anomaly of ovarian function .
any anomaly of the structure of an organ ofthe endocrine system .
any anomaly of the function of the endocrine system .
any anomaly of the structure of the humerus .
any anomaly of the structure of the uterus
increase in size of the left atrium .
a maladaptive personality trait characterized by moderate or greater impairment in personality  ( self  / interpersonal )  functioning .
any structural anomaly of the ear .
any functional anomaly of the ear .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glycerol in the blood .
bleeding within the fundus of the eye .
a functional anomaly of the mouth  ( which is also known as the oral cavity )  .
any structural anomaly of the mouth ,  which is also known as the oral cavity .
a functional abnormality affecting one or more of the cranial nerves ,  which emerge directly from the brain stem .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carbohydrate in the urine .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carboxylic acid in the urine .
an anomaly of the adjacent structures  ( i .e . ,  adnexa )  of the eye ,  defined as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva .
a functional anomaly of the adjacent structures  ( i .e . ,  adnexa )  of the eye ,  defined as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva .
a type of infection that is regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection .
any functional abnormality of the part of the nervous system that consists of the nerves and ganglia outside of the brain and spinal cord .
an unusual infection classified by the affected body part .
an abnormal level of an analyte measured in the blood .
an abnormality in the function of the chemical reactions related to processes including conversion of food to enter ,  synthesis of proteins ,  lipids ,  nucleic acids ,  and carbohydrates ,  or the elimination of waste products .
increased level of phenylalanine in urine .
underdevelopment of the ureter .
an encapsulated collection of pus and necrotic material within the renal parenchyma .
a deviation of urine ph from the normal range of 4 .5 to 7 .8 .
any structural anomaly of the fetal part of the placenta ,  which is known as the chorion .
an elevated level of an aromatic amino acid in the urine .
an elevated level of a proteinogenic amino acid in the urine .
an elevated level of a proteinogenic amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration in the blood circulation of an alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
an anomaly of the musculoskeletal system ,  which consists of the bones of the skeleton ,  muscles ,  cartilage ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  joints ,  and other connective tissue .
a structural anomaly of the pharynx .
a functional anomaly of the pharynx .
any structural anomaly of a blood vessel  ( artery ,  arteriole ,  capillary ,  venule ,  or vein )  .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a metabolite in urine .
activation of the brain's innate immune system in response to an inflammatory challenge and is characterized by a host of cellular and molecular changes within the brain .
any deviation from the normal concentration of folate in the blood circulation .
a deviation from the normal concentration of cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  in the blood .
an increased amount of carboxylic acid in the urine .
an abnormally increased head circumference in a growing child .
bleeding occuring within a muscle
a structural anomaly of the muscles of the trunk and head .
an increased concentration of glycerol in the urine .
increased concentration of glycerol in the blood .
defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the left heart identifiable at birth .
an anomaly of the size of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
inflammation in any serous cavity .
any morphological abnormality of the cervical vertebral column .
an abnormality of the structure or form of the tendons ,  also often called sinews .
a decreased concentration of ammonia in the blood .
a reduced circulating concentration of folic acid ,  which is also known as vitamin b9 .
an anomaly in the metabolism of a vitamin .
a reduced concentration of vitamin d .
an abnormality of phosphate homeostasis or concentration in the body .
inflammation of the eye ,  parts of the eye or the periorbital region .
inflammation of the urinary bladder .
an inflammation of the endocardium ,  the inner layer of the heart ,  which usually involves the heart valves .
the nostrils  ( the paired channels of the nose )  are not present .
a general term for inflammation of the muscles without respect to the underlying cause .
an anomaly of the cerebral blood vessels .
inflammation of cartilage .
an abnormality of the thoracic vertebral column .
a sectoral indentation of the crystalline lens ,  usually due to zonular weakness or absence .
an abnormality of the placenta ,  the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to enable nutrient uptake ,  waste elimination ,  and gas exchange .
congenital absence or underdevelopment of the colon .
an abnormality in the size of the ocular globe  ( eyeball )  .
disproportionately small hand .
any abnormality of the part of the nervous system that consists of the nerves and ganglia outside of the brain and spinal cord .
any abnormality of the part of the peripheral nervous system associated with sensation and skeletal muscle voluntary control of body movements .
an abnormality of nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the autonomic nervous system .
an abnormality of nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the peripheral autonomic nervous system .
an abnormality of nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the autonomic nervous system of the cranium .
a gap in the lip or lips .
any structural anomaly of the hollow epithelial tube found on the dorsal side of the vertebrate embryo that develops into the central nervous system  ( i .e .
an increase in the level of l - glutamic acid in the blood .
any abnormality of the chest muscles .
any abnormality of the back muscles .
any abnormality of the shoulder muscles .
an abnormality in any umbilical cord measurement performed after birth ,  such as the blood gas level .
an abnormality of the muscles of the structure of the nose .
inflammation of the urethra .
underdevelopment of the musculature of the pelvis .
a decreased amount of phenylalanine in the blood .
decreased amount of leucine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glutamate in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of the partial pressure of oxygen in the arterial blood .
any structural anomaly of an inner ear epithelium .
any structural abnormality of a facial artery ,  one of the branches of the external carotid artery .
an abnormality of a blood vessel of the head ,  including branches of the arterial and venous systems of the head .
an abnormality of a blood vessel of the neck ,  including branches of the arterial and venous systems of the neck .
an abnormality of an external carotid artery .
any structural abnormality of a jugular vein .
an abnormality of a facial vein .
any structural anomaly of the glossopharyngeal nerve ,  the ninth paired cranial nerve  ( cn ix )  .
an abnormality of an artery of lower lip .
an abnormality of an internal jugular vein .
a measurement unit label is as a label that is part of a scalar measurement datum and denotes a unit of measure .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define  the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a material entity in which a concretization of an information content entity inheres .
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
transference of a tissue or organ within an individual ,  between individuals of the same species ,  or between individuals of different species .
substance that may reduce inflammation ,  stimulate elimination of uric acid ,  or increase production of uric acid .
treatment with a drug for prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
therapy that inhibits hmg - coa reductase inhibitor .
treatment with estrogens or estrogen / progesterone after menopause or ovariectomy to prevent pathological effects of decreased estrogen production .
the surgical transfer of a healthy umbilical cord blood to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy dura mater to a patient .
pathological structure or process
phenotypic observation of the presence or absence of a pathological entity .
lesions leading to or consequent on failure of ,  or atypical movement of ,  blood throughout the body .
abnormal release of whole blood or the cellular component from the circulation .
anatomically located instance of pathological response or entity .
physical entity or structure associated with normal or abnormal tissue healing or repair following extrinsic or intrinsic damage .
a circumscribed collection of purulent exudate frequently associated with swelling and other signs of inflammation .
"a feeding behavior associated with the intake or the frequency of intake or preference or manner of intake of food ."
"a feeding behavior associated with the intake or the frequency of intake or preference or manner of intake of liquids ."
"a physical aggression behavior involving attack on prey by a predator ."
"a behavior associated with the intake of liquid ."
consumption of liquids containing ethanol ,  including the behaviors associated with drinking the alcohol .
"a drinking behavior associated with the intake of water ."
"a feeding behavior associated with the intake of food ."
"a feeding behavior associated with the intake of saccharin ."
"behavior related to the tendency of an organism to maintain internal equilibrium ."
"behavior related to the deprivation of food ."
"any process which modulates the physical craving for food ."
"any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alcohol consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli ."
"behavior related to the intake of cocaine ."
"behavior related to the intake of morphine ."
"behavior related to the intake of nicotine ."
"any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cocaine consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli ."
"any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nicotine consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli ."
"any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphine consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli ."
"any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of consumption of food or liquid"  [ nboc:gvg ] 
"any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of water consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli ."
"any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of saccharin consumption ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli ."
a predator behavior involving actively stalking prey over a distance .
feeding behavior during which a living entity acquires food and energy by actively searching for food resources .
postures or signals performed to other animals to indicate the presence ,  and in some cases ,  the location ,  quantity ,  and quality ,  of a resource .
obtaining food that has been procured by other conspecifics or heterospecifics .
movement directed to the detection of new resources .
behaviors related to acquisition and utilization of external resources .
behavior that precedes and facilitates attaining food .
behaviors that prepare food for consumption ,  such as nut - cracking or peeling .
a class of professional or vocational positions of employment that involve work with automobiles .
the quantitative computation of data obtained via ultrasonography to create a three dimensional map of the imaged tissue .
the act of puffing and / or inhaling the combustion products of a substance so as to be tasted and absorbed into the bloodstream .
any of the characteristics that define the nature of matter or forces that act upon it .
any specific activity undertaken during the course of a clinical study or research protocol .
any method that uses a visual display of structural or functional patterns of organs or tissues for diagnostic evaluation .
the use of a drug for a reason other than which it was intended or in a manner or in quantities other than directed .
activity that requires physical or mental exertion ,  especially when performed to develop or maintain fitness .
a manner of living that reflects the person's values and attitudes .
a type of radiography used specifically to examine breast tissue .
a technique for measuring the gamma radiation produced by collisions of electrons and positrons  ( anti - electrons )  within living tissue .
a subjective and comparative term describing a lack of sufficient wealth  ( usually understood as capital ,  money ,  material goods ,  or resources especially natural resources )  to live what is understood in a society as a "normal" life: for instance ,  to be capable of raising a healthy family ,  and especially educating children and participating in society .
the quality of emitting or the emission of corpuscular or electromagnetic radiations consequent to nuclear disintegration ,  a natural property of all chemical elements of atomic number above 83 and possible of induction in all other known elements .
a word or phrase that imparts a distinctive characteristic or attribute to the word or phrase it is modifying .
a form of physical intimacy that can be directed to reproduction  ( one possible goal of sexual intercourse )  and / or to enjoying the body of someone else ;  activities associated with sexual intercourse .
a technique in which high - frequency sound waves are bounced off internal organs and the echo pattern is converted into a 2 dimensional picture of the structures beneath the transducer .
a printing process of electrostatic electrophotography that uses a photoconductive insulating medium in conjunction with x - rays or gamma rays to produce latent electrostatic - charge patterns for achieving an observable pattern .
any technology or method that aids in the visualization of any biological process ,  cell ,  tissue or organ for use in screening ,  diagnosis ,  surgical procedures or therapy .
discontinuation of the habit of smoking .
characteristics of a person such as education and occupation ,  used to describe the person's position in stratification systems ,  access to services ,  etc .
the act of puffing and / or inhaling smoke from a lit cigarette ,  cigar ,  or pipe .
any procedure or test to diagnose a disease or disorder .
use of tobacco in any form ,  e .g . ,  smoking ,  chewing or sniffing .
maladaptive pattern of drug or alcohol use that may lead to social ,  occupational ,  psychological ,  or physical problems .
establishing relationships with individuals who have similar social or professional interests for the purposes of expanding knowledge and professional / social interaction .
a grouping of occupations and fields of study .
the distinguishing qualities or prominent aspects of an individual person .
use of ultrasound for imaging or diagnostic purposes .
use of conscious or unconscious strategies or mechanisms in adapting to stress .
the observable response of a person .
personal behaviors designed to minimize and control the probability and / or impact of unfortunate events .
methods of preparing foods and their role in health and disease .
cooking of meats over an open flame .
the x - ray examination of the blood vessels or chambers of the heart .
the radiographic examination of the spinal cord and nerve roots following the injection of a contrast medium into the spinal subarachnoid space .
an organizational header for concepts representing mostly abstract entities .
pertaining to the demographic and psychosocial environment in which a person lives .
a distinguishing quality or prominent aspect of a person ,  object ,  action ,  process ,  or substance .
a listing of occupations that don't fall under another major heading .
the use of alcoholic beverages to excess ,  either on individual occasions  ( "binge drinking" )  or as a regular practice .
the state of being engaged in an activity or service for wages or salary ;  the occupation for which you are paid .
the principal activity that a person does to earn money .
an activity that produces an effect ,  or that is intended to alter the course of a disease in a patient or population .
a thing done .
a disorder resulting from the presence and activity of a microbial ,  viral ,  fungal ,  or parasitic agent .
an infectious process caused by a human papillomavirus .
any abnormal condition of the body or mind that causes discomfort ,  dysfunction ,  or distress to the person affected or those in contact with the person .
any disease caused by a virus .
the radiographic examination of the tracheobronchial tree following the injection of a radiopaque material .
a radiographic procedure to obtain an image of the urinary bladder by filling the bladder with contrast medium .
a radiographic examination of the vagina using the intravaginal injection of contrast medium .
a radiographic procedure using the emission of x - rays to form an image of the structure penetrated by the radiation .
a radiographic procedure to form an image of the abdomen .
an x - ray examination of the chest .
any disorder other than abnormal tissue growth resulting from uncontrolled cell proliferation .
a stopping .
the radiographic examination of the bile ducts after a contrast medium has been injected .
a condition that is relevant to human neoplasms and non - neoplastic disorders .
the state of not having a job .
a type of lifestyle that lacks physical exercise ,  characterized by sitting ,  reading ,  watching television or using a computer for much of the day without vigorous physical exertion .
an infectious or non infectious disorder characterized by signs and symptoms derived from focal or extensive tissue infiltration by acute  ( e .g . ,  polymorphonuclear )  or chronic  ( e .g . ,  lymphocytic - plasmacytic )  inflammatory cells .
discontinuation of the use of tobacco in any form .
a diagnostic radiologic test that involves the examination of the entire body in a single procedure .
a regulatory role involved with making and / or enforcing relevant legislation and governmental orders
a role which inheres in material entities and is realized in the processes of making ,  enforcing or being defined by legislation or orders issued by a governmental body .
a role realized through the process of supplying materials such as animal subjects ,  reagents or other materials used in an investigation .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
a role borne by a material entity that is gained during a specimen collection process and that can be realized by use of the specimen in an investigation
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
manufacturing is a process with the intent to produce a processed material which will have a function for future use .
is the objective to manufacture a material of a certain function  ( device ) 
manufacturer role is a role which inheres in a person or organization and which is realized by a manufacturing process .
a planned process with the objective of collecting a specimen .
a objective specification to obtain a material entity for potential use as an input during an investigation .
is a role which inheres in a person or organization and is realized in in a planned process which provides access to training ,  materials or execution of protocols for an organization or person
a specimen that has been intentionally physically modified .
a document with a set of printed or written questions with a choice of answers ,  devised for the purposes of a survey or statistical study .
a material entity that has two or more specimens as its parts .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
dietary pattern represent the quantity ,  proportion ,  variety and combination of different foods and drinks consumed in meals ,  and the frequency with which they are habitually consumed .
a quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical dimension of extension .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a morphological quality pertaining to the degree to which an object contains an opening ,  aperture ,  orifice or vent .
a mobility quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a quality of a process which starts later than the natural start time or the reference process .
a height which is relatively low .
a height which is relatively high .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording not completed blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording unobstructed passage or view .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced number of cells within an organ or tissue .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted during formation .
a quality of a single physical entity that arises by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a functionality quality which is held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform additional or different function ( s )  .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted in form .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a mobility which is relative high .
a mobility which is relative low .
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the start of the process with respect to a reference process .
orifice of the olfactory system .
the olfactory organ of vertebrates ,  consisting of nares ,  olfactory epithelia and the structures and skeletal framework of the nasal cavity .
the organs associated with producing offspring in the gender that produces spermatozoa .
the stage of being a sexually mature adult animal .
an embryo that is at the late embryonic stage ;  this stage covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
the nasal vestibule is the most anterior part of the nasal cavity .
a vein that drains the left pampiniform plexus and empties into the left renal vein .
a vein that drains the right pampiniform plexus and empties into the inferior vena cava .
an anatomical wall that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gonad of a male animal .
the cervical nerves are the spinal nerves from the cervical vertebrae .
the invaginated serous membrane that surrounds the lungs  ( the visceral portion )  and lines the walls of the pleural cavity  ( parietal portion )  .
a intromittent organ in certain biologically male organisms .
a tube or collection of tubes in an animal from the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the female muscular organ of gestation in which the developing embryo or fetus is nourished until birth
external genital organs of the female mammal [ wp ]  .
either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract posterolateral to the urinary bladder and in the human male secrete a sugar -  and protein - containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct .
the ejaculatory ducts  ( ductus ejaculatorii )  are paired structures in male anatomy ,  about 2 cm in length .
a secretory duct that transports sperm from the testis .
ossified form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
the transverse or costal processes of a vertebra ,  two in number ,  project one at either side from the point where the lamina joins the pedicle ,  between the superior and inferior articular processes .
transudate contained in the pleural cavity .
any vertebral bone that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all the vertebra and associated skeletal elements and joints in the body [ modified from vsao ]  .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from a single male gonad .
one of a pair of arteries that is a branch of the abdominal aorta that supplies blood to a male gonad .
a testicular artery that supplies a right testicle .
a testicular artery that supplies a left testicle .
the glandular mucous membrane lining of the uterine cavity that is hormonally responsive during the estrous / menstrual cycle and during pregnancy
outer serosa layer of the uterus .
the conic expansion of the corpus spongiosum that forms the head of the penis
the elongated structure connected to the posterior surface of the testis that transports ,  stores ,  and matures spermatozoa between testis and vas deferens
a fallopian tube that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a fallopian tube that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the umbilical artery is a paired artery  ( with one for each half of the body )  that is found in the abdominal and pelvic regions .
the pampiniform plexus is a network of many small veins found in the male spermatic cord .
a zone of skin that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a urethra that is part of a male reproductive system .
the tubules in the testes where spermatogenesis occurs .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the neck by the plane of the superior thoracic aperture and from the abdomen internally by the inferior surface of the diaphragm and externally by the costal margin and associated with the thoracic vertebral column and ribcage and from the back of the thorax by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage ,  the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines ;  together with the abdomen and the perineum ,  it constitutes the trunk proper [ fma ]  .
the joint between adjacent vertebral bodies .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the nose and ends distally with the cricoid cartilage ,  before continuing to the trachea .
a congregation of multiple veins .
an anatomical cavity that is part of the olfactory apparatus .
one of the cartilage structures in the nose that provide form and support [ wp ]  .
the mucous membrane that lines the nasal cavity [ mp ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism substance that is composed of sperm cells suspended in seminal fluid .
organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin [ go ]  .
any joint that connects a rib to another structure  ( or another rib )  .
the fibrous membrane forming the outer of the three coverings that surrounds the brain within the cranial cavity ;  consists of two layers including the periosteal layer and the meningeal layer .
a dura mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
pair of nostrils .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments .
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by fibrocartilage .
anatomical structure that is a membranous gap between bones of the skull [ tao ]  .
an intersegmental rod - shaped bone that forms in the peritoneal membrane and attach to the vertebral parapophyses .
an organ that houses olfactory neurons and is responsible for the sense of smell .
the connecting cord from the developing embryo to the placenta .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
membrane organ that surrounds the brain and the spinal cord .
thick ,  fibrous meningeal covering surrounding the brain and spinal cord .
the outer serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the inner serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the fluid - filled cavity that lies between the visceral and parietal pleurae .
the small ,  erectile body located at the anterior end of the vulva
the ossified form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
a vertebra that is located in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
an external caudal extension of the body .
any muscle organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous secreting gland associated with the mucuous membrane lining the uterus .
the rapidly proliferating mass of cells at the caudal extremity of the embryo ;  remnant of the primitive node .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a cervical region .
the thoracic nerves are the spinal nerves emerging from the thoracic vertebrae .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the embryo that develops into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
extension of the dorsal aorta in the tail .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
the outermost extraembryonic membrane
a male organ involved in reproduction
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs in an organism connected to the sternum and the vertebrae .
a mesenchyme that is part of a chorion .
a meninx that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing testis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a extraembryonic structure that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a chorion .
a mesothelium that is part of a pleural cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gelatinous substance within the umbilical cord ,  largely made up of mucopolysaccharides  ( hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate )  .
a nerve that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of the arteries supplying a meninix [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that attaches to a tail vertebra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
fibrous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the skull are connected by sutural ligaments  ( scant amount of collagenous dense connective tissue )  .
the twelve spinal nerves on each side of the thorax .
the intercostal nerves are the anterior divisions  ( rami anteriores ;  ventral divisions )  of the thoracic spinal nerves from t1 to t11 .
the central part of the thoracic cavity enclosed by the left and right pleurae .
initial section of the oviduct through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus
paired ducts of the embryo that run down the lateral sides of the urogenital ridge and terminate at the mullerian eminence in the primitive urogenital sinus .
the posterior concave interior of the eye ,  consisting of the retina ,  the choroid ,  the posterior segment of the sclera ,  the optic disk ,  and blood vessels ,  visible by an ophthalmoscope
an anastomosing network of delicate tubules located in the hilum of the testicle  ( mediastinum testis )  that carries sperm from the seminiferous tubules to the vasa efferentia [ wp ]  .
the internal feminine genital organs ,  including the ovaries ,  uterine tubes ,  uterus ,  uterine cervix ,  and vagina .
a conical pouch formed from the upper and left angle of the right ventricle in the chordate heart ,  from which the pulmonary artery arises [ wp ]  .
the funnel - like expansion of the abdominal extremity of the uterine tube [ mp ] 
the external masculine genital organs ,  including the penis and scrotum
the internal masculine genital organs ,  including the testes ,  epididymides ,  deferent ducts ,  seminal vesicles ,  prostate ,  ejaculatory ducts ,  and bulbourethral glands
the unpaired embryonic prominence that is formed by the tissues surrounding the forebrain vesicle and develops into the forehead and bridge of the nose / snout .
the lateral area of the two branches of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it separates the olfactory pit from the developing eye and the ala of the nose / snout develops from it
the internal genitalia are the internal sex organs such as the uterine tube ,  the uterus and the vagina in female mammals ,  and the testis ,  seminal vesicle ,  ejaculatory duct and prostate in male mammals
a muscular coat that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cranial suture that is part of a cartilaginous joint  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
upper part of skull ,  consisting of parietals ,  frontals ,  post - parietals ,  and in some species the squamosal and a portion of the alisphenoid
a membranous sac that develops from the posterior part of the alimentary canal in the embryos of mammals ,  birds ,  and reptiles ,  and it is important in the formation of the umbilical cord and placenta in mammals [ vhog ]  .
a vertebra in the trunk or cervical region .
a muscle that is attached to a vertebra of the vertebral column .
a projection or outgrowth of tissue from a larger body or organ .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone tissue .
a testis that is in the left side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a testis that is in the right side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the layer of secretory cells which lines the epididymis
a muscular coat that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of an external naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a stage that follows the blastula ,  gastrula and neurula stages .
an epithelium that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a oviduct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of an endometrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the stratified epithelial lining of the seminiferous tubules ,  consisting of the developing spermatozoa and the supporting sertoli cells ,  which are tall ,  columnar type cells that line the tubule
an epithelium that is part of a upper respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a epididymis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium surrounding a testis .
a mucosa that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ejaculatory duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a male urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mediastinum testis is a network of fibrous connective tissue that extends from the upper to near the lower extremity of the testis ,  and is wider above than below .
a cord of epithelial cells without a lumen and usually several cells thick .
an organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery in males that provides blood to the vas deferens .
a vein that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the elevation of thickened mesothelium and underlying mesenchyme found on the ventromedial border of the embryonic mesonephros in which the primordial germ cells become embedded ,  establishing it as the primordium of the testis or ovary
cordlike masses of epithelial tissue that invaginate from germinal epithelium of the gonad and give rise to seminiferous tubules and rete testes in the male ,  and primary ovarian follicles and rete ovarii in the female .
structures that develop from sex cords in the female .
the testis cords are precursors to the rete testis .
a zone of skin that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cord - like structure in males comprising the vas deferens and associated tissue that runs from the abdomen down to each testis [ mp ]  .
an epithelium that lines the nasal cavity .
a sex gland that is part of a male reproductive system .
an axial muscle that originates in the cervical vertebraae inserts on the scapula .
a vascular network formed by frequent anastomoses between the blood vessels  ( arteries or veins )  of a part .
a sensory system that is capable of olfacttion  ( the sensory perception of smell )  .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a caudal region .
an indentation of the olfactory placode which ends when the pits hollows out to form the nasopharynx [ go ]  .
the embryonic anlage of the external genitalia ,  which emerges as paired swellings ventral to the cloacal membrane ,  is proposed to be derived from all three germ layers ,  and gives rise to the penis ,  clitoris ,  scrotum ,  labia ,  and foreskin
the epithelial lining of the surface of the coelom .
each seminal vesicle consists of a single tube ,  coiled upon itself ,  and giving off several irregular cecal diverticula ;  the separate coils ,  as well as the diverticula ,  are connected together by fibrous tissue .
any of the ducts that are part of a male reproductive system .
a naris that provides one of the small external openings of the head that give passage to air for breathing .
a process projection from a part of the vertebra such as centrum or arches .
a bone that is part of a post - anal tail .
subdivision of an organism along anterior - posterior axis that is the posteriormost region ,  extending past the anus  ( or cloaca ,  if present )  ,  consisting of a tail in some fully formed chordates  ( or a tail bud in embryos )  .
that portion of the spine comprising the cervical vertebrae .
that part of the spine comprising the thoracic vertebrae .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the caudal subdivision of the body ,  containing the caudal vertebrae .
a collection of all skeletal elements in some subdivision of the vertebral column .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a female reproductive system .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a male reproductive system .
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
the unique bone located in the glans penis of most mammals except humans ;  it is used for copulation and varies in size and shape by species
the ossified region of endochondral and membranous bone located in the clitoris of most mammals except humans ;  it is homologous to the penile bone  ( aka as baculum ,  penis bone or os penis )  in male mammals
a substance formed from the secretion of one or more glands of the male genital tract in which sperm cells are suspended .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a male reproductive gland .
a muscle layer that is part of a fallopian tube .
an adventitia that is part of a epididymis .
a muscle layer that is part of a epididymis .
an adventitia that is part of a vas deferens .
an adventitia that is part of a seminal vesicle .
erectile tissue at the end of the clitoris ,  which is continuous with the intermediate part of the vestibulovaginal bulbs [ bto ]  .
a vein that is part of a vertebral column .
structural framework that provides support to the nasal sacs and ducts .
a gland that secretes a seminal fluid .
the lateral surface parts of the external nose ,  inferiorly ,  surrounding the naris [ eom ]  .
multilaminar epithelium which consists of more than one layer of squamous cells only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
the efferent ducts  ( or efferent ductules or ductuli efferentes )  connect the rete testis with the initial section of the epididymis .
a duct or series of ducts that transports sperm from the gonad .
an epithelium that is part of a efferent duct .
the ejaculatory duct epithelium is composed of cuboidal to columnar cells between or through which project the terminal parts of the ducts of the unicellular prostate glands .
an epithelium that is part of a uterus .
a multicellular organism that is at the juvenile stage .
a multicellular organism that existence_ends_with a post - juvenile adult stage and existence_starts_with a post - juvenile adult stage .
an embryonic structure that will either develop into a post - anal tail or recede into a vestigial remnant of the tail .
the medial border of the scapula  ( vertebral border ,  medial margin )  is the longest of the three borders ,  and extends from the medial to the inferior angle .
a serous membrane that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a muscle layer that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
multicellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
an embryo stage that covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
a ciliated columnar epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
a cuboidal epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
a developing mesenchymal capsule that covers the developing brain and spinal cord and is the precursor of the meningeal cluster .
the outermost layer of the mesenchymal capsule that surrounds the developing brain ,  of mixed paraxial mesoderm and neural crest origin .
an endothelium that is part of a umbilical artery .
a bridge of mesoderm connecting the caudal end of the young embryo with the trophoblastic tissues ;  the precursor of the umbilical cord .
a vasculature that is part of a connecting stalk .
a tail that extends from the posterior tip of the organism to the anus ,  contains muscle and skeleton .
external part of the nose containing the external nares .
the irregular bones are bones which ,  from their peculiar form ,  cannot be grouped as long bone ,  short bone ,  flat bone or sesamoid bone .
subdivision of thorax ,  which in humans is the posterior part of the thorax and is demarcated from the chest by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage and the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column ;  together with the chest ,  it constitutes the thorax .
a muscle of back that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
with numerous vascular spaces that may become engorged with blood
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a clitoris .
any muscle organ that is part of an nose .
an external organ of a male organism that is specialized to deliver sperm during copulation .
any duct branching of of the main epididymis duct .
the hemorrhoidal plexus  ( or rectal venous plexus )  surrounds the rectum ,  and communicates in front with the vesical venous plexus in the male ,  and the uterovaginal plexus in the female .
a zone of skin that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
an organism containing a developing embryo ,  fetus ,  or unborn offspring within the body .
the uterus in pregnancy
any suture between cranial and / or facial bones .
any suture between facial bones .
mesenchyme that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
an ectoderm that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
cartilaginous form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the frontonasal region of the head
a vascular plexus that is part of a left lung .
a vascular plexus that is part of a right lung .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the trunk of the body ,  containing the trunk / presacral vertebrae .
a somite that is part of a tail .
a serous sac that has the pleura and the pleural cavity as parts .
a multi - tissue structure that has the potential to develop into a meninx of hindbrain .
a sex cord that is part of a indifferent gonad .
a bodily secretion that is produced by a seminal vesicle .
the distal end of the tail
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the penile urethra
a vasculature that is part of a post - anal tail .
one of the three blood vessels ,  usually one large umbilical vein and two small umbilical arteries ,  buried within wharton's jelly ,  that transport blood to and from the placenta ,  where exchange between the mother and fetus takes place ;  the umbilical vein carries oxygenated ,  nutrient - rich blood from the placenta to the fetus ,  and the umbilical arteries carry deoxygenated ,  nutrient - depleted blood from the fetus to the placenta .
any anatomical space that is part of a vertebral column .
a naris that is located inside the nasal cavity and connects to the pharynx .
the collection of all meningeal layers that line a central nervous system .
am unpaired external naris that lies in the midline of the head .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the pre - cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
a cartilage element that lies between two successive vertebral centra .
the submucous layer of the wall of the uterine tube .
a vertebra in the trunk region .
anatomical projection that is composed of cartilage tissue .
blood that remains in the placenta and in the attached umbilical cord after childbirth [ wp ]  .
a urethral meatus that is part of a male urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the nasal glands are the seromucous glands in the respiratory region of the nasal mucous membrane .
keratinized stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesize and accumulate keratin .
the posterior region of the neck ,  including the suboccipital region .
a serous membrane that is part of a fallopian tube .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a umbilical cord .
a future glans that is part of a male genital tubercle .
a future glans that is part of a female genital tubercle .
a epithelial tube that develops from a mullerian duct in a male .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a section through the tube or network of tubes that connects the ovaries to the outside of the body .
anatomical projection that is part of the integumentl system .
a organ cavity that is part of a uterus .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs and rib joints in an organism .
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a venous system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a vascular system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a epithelium that is part of a frontonasal prominence .
a vertebral endochondral element in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
a vertebral endochondral element in the thoracic region of the vertebral column .
a rib bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a blood vessel that is part of a endometrium .
a zone of skin that is part of a external nose .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a ejaculatory duct .
any anatomical conduit which is part of the upper respiratory tract
an anatomical chamber that is part of the olfactory apparatus ,  consisting of cavity walls  ( nasal epithelium and mucosal layers )  and the space bounded anteriorly by the nares and posteriorly by the choanae ,  when these structures are present .
subdivision of thorax which includes all structures from the skin to the costal pleura .
skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
a epithelium that is part of a male urethra .
the dorsal region of the optic cup that gives rise to the dorsal part of the retina .
any vertebra endochondral element that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
a transverse process that is part of a cervical vertebra
a rib that is attached to a cervical vertebra .
one of the veins draining a meninix .
epithelial layer that is part of the external part of the nose .
the layer of endometrial epithelium adjacent to the uterine cavity .
a blood vessel of the placenta .
a part of an organism or organ that is continuous with its surroundings and distinguished from its surroundings based on morphology .
a region or zone on the surface of an organism that encompasses skin and any adnexa ,  down through muscles and bounded by underlying skeletal support structures .
an epithelium that is part of a naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vertebra that has a transverse process .
a post - anal tail that attaches outside the tail .
a transverse process that is part of a caudal vertebra
the parietal pleura that lines the mediastinum .
any nerve that innervates the penis .
any nerve that innervates the clitoris .
the lumen of the epididymis
an anatomical structure that is located along the line dividing two regions of an anatomical structure .
an anatomical junction between two parts of the digestive tract .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the tail integument .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone or cartilage tissue .
an anatomical junction between two parts of the intestine .
a unit which is a standard measure of the distance between two points .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of matter / energy of a physical object .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
a unit which is a standard measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in a sample of matter .
a unit which is a standardised quantity of an element or compound with uniform composition .
a unit which represents a standard measurement of how much of a given substance there is mixed with another substance .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of space occupied by any substance ,  whether solid ,  liquid ,  or gas .
a unit which is a standard measure of the number of repetitive actions in a particular time .
a unit which is a standard measure of the volume of fluid which passes through a given surface per unit time  .
a unit which represents a standard measurement occurrence of a process per unit time .
