a quantitative or qualitative value which is the result of an act of assessing a morphological or physiological state or property in a single individual or sample or a group of individuals or samples ,  based on direct observation or experimental manipulation .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter pertaining to the heart and / or blood vessels .
the number of contractions of the cardiac ventricles per unit of time .
measurement of the pressure ,  or force per area ,  exerted by circulating blood against the walls of the blood vessels .
the maximum arterial pressure within the cardiac cycle ,  i .e .
the minimum arterial pressure within the cardiac cycle ,  usually at the point at which the heart is in a state of relaxation and expansion .
the minimum pressure in the heart left ventricle ,  usually at the point at which the heart is in a state of relaxation and expansion and the ventricles fill with blood .
measurement of the pressure within the heart left ventricle at the point of maximal contraction ,  when the blood is forced from the left ventricle into the aorta .
a blood pressure measurement which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
the average blood pressure within an artery over a specified period of time .
a calculated value for the difference between the systolic blood pressure and the diastolic blood pressure at a given point in time when measured in an isolated organ or vessel under conditions where perfusion pressure or flow can be controlled .
morphological measurement involving the entire body of an organism .
the heaviness or degree to which an entire organism's body is drawn to the earth by gravity .
a measurement of the longest dimension of a body ,  typically between two distinct ends of the body .
total distance around the body at the region of the body lateral to and including the hip joint or coxa .
the level of heat in an organism .
a measurement of the physical form or structure of the heart ,  the chambered ,  muscular organ in vertebrates that pumps blood received from the veins into the arteries ,  thereby maintaining the flow of blood through the entire circulatory system .
the heaviness of the heart  ( the central cardiac muscle which maintains the circulation of the blood )  or the degree to which it is drawn to the earth by gravity .
a calculated measurement of the difference between the systolic pressure and the diastolic pressure in the heart left ventricle at a given point in time in an isolated organ or vessel under conditions where perfusion pressure or flow can be controlled .
distance around the upper portion of the hind limb closest to the body ,  typically taken at the area of maximum girth .
the circumference of the body at the level of the navel divided by the circumference at the widest point around the buttock ,  often used to assess distribution of sub - cutaneous and intra - abdominal adipose tissue .
measurement of the structure or forms of the entire body or parts of the body of an organism .
a quantification of a parameter of the chemical composition of blood .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of one or more of the various ,  specific types of leukocytes present in a sample of blood for which a total white blood cell count was taken ,  usually 1 cubic mm of peripheral venous blood .
the number of red blood cells in a specified volume of blood most commonly 1 cubic millimeter  ( i .e .
the amount of hemoglobin in a specific volume of blood ,  expressed as grams per deciliter of whole blood in humans .
the number of white blood cells in a specified volume of blood .
any measurement involving the amount ,  composition or type of protein ,  the complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in blood .
the number of platelets  ( thrombocytes )  in a specified volume of blood ,  usually expressed as platelets per cubic millimeter of whole blood .
the number of granulocytes categorized as neutrophils in a specified volume of blood .
the number of lymphocytes in a specified volume of blood .
the number of monocytes in a specified volume of blood .
the number of granulocytes categorized as eosinophils in a specified sample of blood .
the number of granulocytes categorized as basophils in a specified sample of blood .
a measurement of the blood ,  it's contents ,  cells or other factors contained within the blood .
a value resulting from the quantification of the cellular elements of the blood ,  including morphological or physiological parameter of blood cells ,  i .e .
percentage of total blood volume that is made up of red blood cells .
a measure of the average volume or size of a single red blood cell .
the level of steroids found in a specific volume of blood .
the amount of glucocorticoids ,  steroids produced by the adrenal cortex that regulate carbohydrate ,  lipid and protein metabolism ,  found in a specific volume of blood .
the red cell distribution width  ( rdw )  is a measurement derived from the red blood cell distribution curves generated on automated hematology analyzers and is an indicator of variation in rbc size within a blood sample .
measurement of the amount of glucose ,  the monosaccharide sugar ,  c6h12o6 ,  occurring widely in plant and animal tissues which is one of the three dietary monosaccharides that are absorbed directly into the bloodstream during digestion ,  is the end product of carbohydrate metabolism ,  and is the chief source of energy for living organisms ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of enzymatic activity of glutamic - oxaloacetic transaminase enzyme ,  commonly known as aspartate transaminase or aspartate aminotransferase  ( ast )  ,  in a specified sample of plasma .
the amount of ezymatic activity of glutamic - pyruvate transaminase enzyme ,  commonly known as alanine transaminase or alanine aminotransferase  ( alt )  ,  enzyme in a specified sample of plasma .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by alkaline phosphatase  ( ap )  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of glucose ,  the monosaccharide sugar ,  c6h12o6 ,  occurring widely in plant and animal tissues which is one of the three dietary monosaccharides that are absorbed directly into the bloodstream during digestion ,  is the end product of carbohydrate metabolism ,  and is the chief source of energy for living organisms ,  in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
the amount of indirect or unconjugated bilirubin in a specified sample of blood plasma .
the level of direct bilirubin in a specified sample of blood plasma .
the level of urea in the blood in terms of nitrogen content ;  converted to urea concentration by multiplying by 60 / 28 or 2 .14 .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of a blood - derived lipid ,  any of a structurally diverse group of organic compounds found in blood that are insoluble in water but soluble innonpolar solvents that ,  among other biological functions ,  serve as a source of fuel and are an important constituent of cell structure .
measurement of the entire amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  without taking into account any association with other molecules such as lipoproteins ,  in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  molecules in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  molecules in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the total amount of all proteins ,  the complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  found in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of globulins ,  a broad category of plasma proteins ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of albumin in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of creatinine ,  a catabolic product of creatine phosphate used in skeletal muscle contraction found in a specified volume of serum .
the amount of phosphorus ,  measured as inorganic phosphate ,  in a specified sample of plasma .
the amount of chloride ions found in a specific volume of plasma .
the amount of sodium ions found in a specific volume of plasma .
the amount of potassium ions found in a specific volume of plasma .
the amount of carbonic acid dissolved in carbon dioxide and bicarbonate ion found in a specific volume of plasma .
a quantification of one or more mineral salts found in the blood in the form of electrically charged ions .
any quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by an enzyme in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of calcium found in a specific volume of plasma .
the difference between the sum of the concentrations of cations and anions found in plasma particularly the sum of sodium plus potassium minus the sum of chloride plus bicarbonate .
the difference between the sum of the concentrations of blood cations and anions particularly the sum of sodium plus potassium minus the sum of chloride plus bicarbonate .
a measurement of the physical form and structure of an organ .
the weight of the heart after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight of the heart after desiccation .
the weight of the lower left chamber of the heart ,  which pumps oxygenated blood through the aorta into the systemic arteries ,  after removal from the body and separation from the rest of the heart but without desiccation .
the weight of the lower right chamber of the heart ,  which pumps venous blood through the pulmonary trunk and arteries to the capillaries of the lung ,  after removal from the body and separation from the rest of the heart but without desiccation .
a calculated value in which the weight of the heart ,  the chambered ,  muscular organ in vertebrates that pumps blood received from the veins into the arteries ,  thereby maintaining the flow of blood through the entire circulatory system ,  is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated value in which the weight of the heart ,  the chambered ,  muscular organ in vertebrates that pumps blood received from the veins into the arteries ,  thereby maintaining the flow of blood through the entire circulatory system ,  is presented as percentage of the total weight of the body ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
the weight of the aorta ,  the main trunk from which the arterial system proceeds .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more blood vessels ,  the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body .
the distance between the tip of the nose to the very end of the appendage extending from the end of the trunk of an organism .
the distance between the tip of the nose to the end of the back end of the trunk of an organism .
the weight of one or both kidneys ,  the organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
the weight of the right kidney ,  the organ which lies on the right side of the body from the perspective of the subject and functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight of the left kidney ,  the organ which lies on the left side of the body from the perspective of the subject and functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight of a single kidney ,  the organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight of both kidneys ,  the organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation .
measurement of the physical form or structure of one or both kidneys ,  the organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
weight of the encapsulated adipose tissue in the body region between the thorax and pelvis .
measurement of adipose tissue in entire body or region of body of an organism .
measurement of the weight or heaviness of the liver ,  that is ,  the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the liver ,  the large abdominal organ / gland which functions in the storage and filtration of blood ,  secretion of bile ,  detoxification of noxious substances ,  synthesis and storage of glycogen ,  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ,  and synthesis of serum proteins .
a measurement to assess the morphological or physiological state of the respiratory system or portion of the respiratory system .
the weight of the encapsulated adipose tissue found in the abdomen compared to the weight of the entire body ,  usually expressed as a percentage .
the weight of the lung ,  the organ component of the respiratory system responsible for the exchange of gases between the environment and the blood .
the weight ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation ,  of one or both lungs ,  the organ component of the respiratory system responsible for the exchange of gases between the environment and the blood .
the weight ,  after desiccation ,  of one or both lungs ,  the organ component of the respiratory system responsible for the exchange of gases between the environment and the blood .
the weight ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation ,  of the single lung located on the right side of the body .
the weight ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation ,  of the single lung located on the left side of the body .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight of the lung ,  the organ component of the respiratory system responsible for the exchange of gases between the environment and the blood .
a calculated measurement in which the weight after dessication of one or both lungs ,  the organ component of the respiratory system responsible for the exchange of gases between the environment and the blood ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the right lung  ( the lung on the side of the body to the south when the organism is facing east )  is divided by the weight of the left lung of the same individual and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the weight ,  after desiccation ,  of one individual lung ,  the organ component of the respiratory system responsible for the exchange of gases between the environment and the blood .
a measurement relating body weight to height in an organism ;  typically calculated as the weight of an individual divided by the height of that individual squared .
the vertical measurement of a body .
a measurement that indicates the compositional nature of a tissue or set of tissues .
a calculated value which compares the weight of the right ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the right side of the heart ,  which pumps venous blood through the pulmonary trunk and arteries to the capillaries of the lung ,  with the weight of the left ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the left side of the heart ,  which pumps oxygenated blood out through the aorta to all the tissues of the body ,  and presents it as a ratio .
the number of b lymphocytes in a specified volume of blood .
the number of t lymphocytes in a specified volume of blood .
the number of granulocytes  ( polymorphonuclear leukocytes )  in a specified volume of blood ,  usually 1 cubic millimeter .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of renin activity in a specified sample of blood via the direct immunologic detection of the renin protein in the sample and subsequent conversion of the protein level to an activity level .
the amount of ezymatic activity of renin ,  an enzyme which catalyzes cleavage of the leucine - leucine bond in angiotensinogen to generate angiotensin i ,  in a specified volume of blood .
an estimation of the amount of renin in a specific volume of plasma calculated from the rate of formation of angiotensin i or ii .
the amount of free fatty acids found in a specific volume of blood .
the amount of triglycerides in a specific volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
the amount of lipoproteins ,  any of a group of conjugated proteins that have at least one lipid component ,  in a specific volume of blood .
the amount of proteins that bind to lipids found in a specific volume of plasma .
the amount of angiotensin ii in a specific sample of blood .
the average amount of hemoglobin per red blood cell caculated by dividing the total mass of hemoglobin by the number of red blood cells in a volume of blood .
the amount of bilirubin found in a specific volume of blood .
the amount of sex steroids ,  hormones which interact with vertebrate androgen or estrogen receptors ,  found in a specific volume of blood .
measurement of the amount of creatinine in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
the impedance ,  or opposition ,  of a section of tissue to passage of electric current .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the skeletal ,  smooth and / or heart muscles of the body .
the amount of potassium ions in a specified volume of urine .
the amount of sodium ions in a specified volume of urine .
the amount of albumin in a specified volume of urine .
weight of muscle ,  an organ which contracts to produce movement .
total volume of gas inhaled and exhaled from the lungs per one minute .
the amount of carbon dioxide present in air exhaled from the lungs .
the rate of elimination of carbon dioxide from the lungs .
maximum capacity of an individual's body to transport and utilize oxygen ,  usually measured during exercise as volume of oxygen per unit of time .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the brain ,  the component of the central nervous system enclosed within the cranium which is the primary center for the regulation and control of bodily activities .
the weight of the brain ,  that is ,  its heaviness or the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight of the brain ,  that is ,  its heaviness or the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the brain is divided by the total weight of the body of the organism ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of both kidneys ,  the paired organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
weight of the liver in comparison to whole body weight expressed as percentage .
measurement of the physical form or structure of one or both of the adrenal glands ,  the complex endocrine glands located just above the kidneys which  release hormones in response to stress through the synthesis of corticosteroids such as cortisol and catecholamines such as adrenaline  ( epinephrine )  and noradrenaline ,  as well as producing androgens in the innermost cortical layer .
the weight of one or both of the adrenal glands ,  that is ,  their heaviness or the degree to which they are drawn toward the earth by gravity .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight of one or both adrenal glands .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one individual adrenal gland is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the spleen ,  the highly vascular lymphoid organ which serves to store blood ,  disintegrate old blood cells ,  filter foreign substances from the blood ,  and to produce lymphocytes .
the weight of the spleen ,  that is ,  its heaviness or degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight of the spleen ,  that is ,  its heaviness or the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the spleen is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
measurement of the form or structure of any organ which is part of the complex of male gonads ,  associated ducts ,  and external genitalia concerned with sexual reproduction .
the weight of one or both of the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop .
the weight of one or both of the testes ,  the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop ,  which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathmatical process or computation .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one or both testes ,  the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop ,  is divided by the total body weight of the organism and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
weight of the brain after desiccation of the excised organ .
the weight of the brain after removal from the body but without desiccation .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one or both lungs is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight or heaviness of the liver ,  that is ,  the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of the liver ,  the large abdominal organ / gland which functions in the storage and filtration of blood ,  secretion of bile ,  detoxification of noxious substances ,  synthesis and storage of glycogen ,  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ,  and synthesis of serum proteins .
the weight after desiccation of the liver ,  the large abdominal organ / gland which functions in the storage and filtration of blood ,  secretion of bile ,  detoxification of noxious substances ,  synthesis and storage of glycogen ,  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ,  and synthesis of serum proteins .
any measurement that has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight of one or both kidneys ,  the paired organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
the weight of an individual left adrenal gland ,  that is the gland located on the left side of the body when viewed from the organism's perspective ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight of an individual right adrenal gland ,  that is the gland located on the right side of the body when viewed from the organism's perspective ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation .
weight of one individual adrenal gland after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the total weight of both adrenal glands together after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight together ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation ,  of both lungs ,  the organ component of the respiratory system responsible for the exchange of gases between the environment and the blood .
weight of one or both adrenal glands after removal from the body but without desiccation .
weight of one or both adrenal glands after desiccation of the excised organ ( s )  .
the weight of one or both kidneys ,  the organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight after desiccation of one or both kidneys ,  the organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
the weight of the spleen after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight of the spleen after desiccation .
the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of one or both of the testicles ,  the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop .
the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation both of the testicles ,  the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop .
the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of a single testicle ,  one of the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop .
the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of the right testicle ,  one of the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop .
the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of the left testicle ,  one of the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop .
the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of a blood vessel ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at either the inner surface or outer surface of the blood vessel wall .
percentage of blood pumped out of the left ventricle with each heart beat .
volume of blood left in a ventricle at end of contraction .
morphological measurement of the top most or forward most division of an organism's body usually containing the brain and sense organs .
total distance around the head of an organism .
total volume or capacity of the bony or cartilaginous framework of the head .
morphological measurement of one of paired appendages used for locomotion or grasping .
the linear distance around the lower portion of the hind limb ,  i .e .
measurement of the linear extent from end to end of a posterior appendage such as a leg .
any morphological measurement of the flexible appendage extending outward from the trunk or main part of the body .
the distance from the tip of the extended ,  flexible appendage at the rear of a vertebrate to the point of contact with the trunk or main body .
measurement of the resistance of blood to flow caused by friction of its component molecules as they slide past one another .
a measurement of the amount ,  by weight ,  of the small deposits of fat located within a specified amount of skeletal muscle .
a measurement to describe the combined properties of viscosity ,  related to the energy dissipated during flow ,  and elasticity ,  related to the energy stored during flow ,  of blood .
any measurement of the movement of blood through the heart and blood vessels .
the volume of blood flowing through a vessel or organ per unit of time .
the volume of blood pumped from the right or left ventricle per minute ,  also used to calculate  -  stroke volume x heart rate .
the volume of blood flowing through an artery per unit time .
the volume of blood passing through a vein per unit time .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the small deposits of fat located within and throughout skeletal muscle is presented as a percentage of the total weight of the body thus normalizing it to body weight .
movement of blood along the solid wall of a vessel ,  often represented by the hagen - poiseuille equation .
measurement to assess the sequential process through which multiple factors of the blood interact to form an insoluble fibrin clot .
measurement of the coagulation properties of blood within a living organism or as it leaves the living organism .
measurement of coagulation and factors affecting coagulation in blood after removal from the living organism .
the time interval between the appearance of the first drop of blood and the removal of the last drop after puncture .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the small deposits of fat located within and throughout skeletal muscle .
measurement of the amount of fibrinogen in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
the time needed for plasma to form a fibrin clot after the addition of calcium and a phospholipid reagent .
measurement of the clotting ability of fibrinogen ,  prothrombin ,  proaccelerin ,  proconvertin and stuart factor ,  usually given in seconds to formation of clot after the addition of a tissue factor or thromboplastin .
the time needed for a fibrin clot to form after the addition of thrombin to citrated plasma .
a calculated measurement of the number of intramuscular fat cells ,  that is ,  adipocytes which make up the small deposits of fat located within and throughout skeletal muscle ,  divided by the volume of skeletal muscle in the sample ,  presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the size of the muscle sample .
a calculated value in which the area of  intramuscular fat divided by a specified area of skeletal muscle and presented as a percentage ,  thus normalizing it to the total area of the muscle .
the amount of magnesium ions in a specified volume of plasma .
resistance to blood flow by blood vessels throughout the body ,  the degree to which the blood vessels impede the flow of blood ,  often calculated as svr equal to the difference between mean arterial blood pressure ( map )  and central venous pressure ( cvp )  divided by cardiac output ( co )  .
volume of blood in ventricle immediately before a contraction .
volume of gas inhaled and exhaled during one respiratory cycle .
volume of blood pumped from one ventricle of the heart with each beat ,  calculated by subtracting the volume of blood in the ventricle at the end of a beat  ( end - systolic volume )  from the volume of blood just prior to the beat  ( end - diastolic volume )  .
a measurement on the adipose tissue in a portion of the body .
any measurement of a gas or gases dissolved in arterial blood ,  that is ,  blood which has absorbed oxygen in the lungs ,  including oxygen ,  nitrogen carbon dioxide and / or hydrogen .
total body fat as a percentage of total body mass calculated based on total body water equal to 0 .372 times height in centimeters squared divided by resistance plus 3 .05 times sex  ( male - 1 ,  female - 2 )  plus 0 .142 times weight minus 0 .69 times age .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more cells .
number of cells of muscular tissue in the heart in a specified sample size .
the enumeration ,  i .e .measurement of the total number ,  of the specialized liner cells that form an interface between the circulating blood and the rest of the vessel wall in a specified sample of blood vessel ,  any one of the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body .
any measurement of components of the electrical conduction system of the heart .the electrical conduction system of the heart transmits signals generated usually by the sinoatrial node to cause contraction of the heart muscle .
difference in electrical polarization or charge between two sides of a cell membrane or cell wall .
interval between an r wave and the next r wave of successive heart beats ,  inverse of the heart rate .
time between the beginning of the p wave to the beginning of the qrs complex ,  reflects the time the electrical impulse takes to travel from the sinus node through the ave node and entering the ventricles ,  used as an estimate of av node function .
the time between the j point  (  the point at which the qrs complex finishes and the st segment begins )  to the end of the t wave .
an interval measured from the onset of the qrs wave complex to the offset of the t wave .
the depth of the wall of the aorta ,  the main trunk from which the arterial system proceeds .
the thickness or depth of the dorsal / posterior wall of the heart .
the thickness or depth  ( i .e .
the thickness or depth of the dorsal / posterior wall of the right ventricle of the heart .
the comparison of forced expiratory volume to forced vital capacity expressed as ratio or percentage .
distance completely around the body in the area between the thorax and hips .
total area of adipose tissue in the abdominal area including subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue .
area of adipose tissue within the muscle wall surrounding the abdominal cavity .
area of adipose tissue found beneath the skin in the abdominal region .
this measurement is made on the layer of skin and subcutaneous fat raised by pinching the skin and letting the underlying muscle fall back to the bone .
measurement made on the layer of skin and subcutaneous fat raised by pinching the skin and letting the underlying muscle fall back to the bone in the region of the biceps muscle ,  commonly the upper arm in humans .
measurement of a fold of skin and subcutaneous fat taken at a point running parallel to the length of the upper limb over the triceps muscle midway between the acromion and olecranon .
measurement made on the layer of skin and subcutaneous fat raised by pinching the skin and letting the underlying muscle fall back to the bone in the region just below the scapula .
measurement is made on the layer of skin and subcutaneous fat raised by pinching the skin and letting the underlying muscle fall back to the bone in the area at the midaxillary line directly above the iliac crest .
the volume of air that can be forcibly expelled from a maximally inflated lung .
maximal rate of air flow through the pulmonary tree during forced expiration .
fraction of forced vital capacity that is exhaled in a specific number of seconds .
maximum volume of air that an organism can breathe in and out during a specified period of time ,  often 1 minute .
any measurement of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys ,  or its components .
measure of the concentration of particles in the urine .
urine ph is a measure of its acidity and is determined by the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration in a specified sample of urine .
the amount of urine voided .
the amount of urine voided over a specified period of time .
the number of times an organism voids urine over a specified period of time .
measurement of the amount of one or more catecholamines ,  any of a group of amines composed of a pyrocatechol molecule and the aliphatic portion of an amine that have important physiological effects as neurotransmitters and hormones ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
the magnitude of the p wave ,  the initial deflection of the cardiac cycle representing excitation of the atria as presented in an electrocardiogram .
the time from start to finish of the p wave  ,  in the electrocardiograph illustrating the initial deflection of the cardiac cycle ,  representing the excitation of the atria .
the distance to the lowest part of the q wave which shows the initial downward deflection related to the initial phase of depolarization of the ventricular myocardium and the depolarization of the interventricular septum as measured by electrocardiograph .
the time from start to finish of the q wave which illustrates the initial downward deflection related to the initial phase of depolarization of the ventricular myocardium and the depolarization of the interventricular septum as measured by an electrocardiograph .
the time from start to finish of the qrs interval as calculated from a set of measurements taken from the beginning of the qrs complex to the end of the qrs complex representing the time it takes for ventricles to depolarize .
the magnitude of the portion of the electrocardiograph comprising the q ,  r ,  and s waves which together represent ventricular depolarization .
qt interval corrected for heart rate calculated by the qt interval divided by the square root of the interval from one qrs complex to the onset of the next qrs complex measured in seconds .
the magnitude of the r wave ,  which is the initial upward deflection of the qrs complex following the q wave representing early depolarization of the ventricles as illustrated by an electrocardiograph .
the time from start to finish of the r wave ,  the initial upward deflection of the qrs complex following the q wave which represents early depolarization of the ventricles as illustrated in and electrocardiograph .
the magnitude of the s wave ,  the downward deflection of the qrs complex following the r wave representing late depolarization of the ventricles as illustrated in an electrocardiograph .
the time from start to finish of the s wave which is the downward deflection of the qrs complex following the r wave representing late depolarization as illustrated by an electrocardiograph .
the magnitude of the t wave ,  the deflection following the qrs complex representing repolarization of the ventricles as illustrated by and electrocardiograph .
an interval measured from the onset of the p wave in one pqrst wave complex to the onset of the p wave in the following pqrst wave complex .
the amount of amylase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of starch and glycogen ,  in a specified volume of urine .
the amount of calcium in a specified volume of urine .
the amount of cortisol ,  a glucocorticoid hormone produced by the adrenal cortex ,  in a specified volume of urine .
the force per unit area attributable to the carbon dioxide ,  a colorless ,  odorless ,  incombustible gas formed during respiration and composed of one atom of carbon and two atoms of oxygen ,  dissolved in a specified volume of blood ,  defined as the force per unit area exerted by carbon dioxide in a mixture of gases in equilibrium with such a sample of blood at the same temperature .
a measure of the amount of carboxyhemoglobin formed by the combination of carbon monoxide and hemoglobin in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
time for whole blood to clot after the addition of particulate activators .
measurement of the amount in blood of a molecular chain compound composed of two or more amino acids joined by peptide bonds that is produced in one part or organ of the body and initiates or regulates the activity of an organ or a group of cells in another part of the body .
change in the amount of air breathed in and out between two points in time or two conditions expressed as a percentage .
the number of breaths taken by an organism per unit of time .
the amount of hemoglobin in a given volume of packed red blood cells and is often calculated by dividing the hemoglobin concentration by the hematocrit .
the difference between systolic and diastolic blood pressures ,  i .e .
in humans this measurement is commonly performed with the individual's arm extended perpendicular to the body and bent with the fingers pointing up so the angle at the elbow is 90 degrees .
the count of the rhythmic contractions and expansions of an artery due to the surge of blood from the beat of the heart .
the measured distance from an individual's back to upper abdomen from midway between the top of the pelvis and the bottom of the ribs ,  commonly measured while the individual is upright .
measured distance between back and upper abdomen of an individual ,  midway between the top of the pelvis and bottom of the ribs while individual is in the supine position .
the difference between partial pressure of blood carbon dioxide between two points in time or two conditions .
difference in partial pressure of blood oxygen between two points in time or two conditions .
the difference in blood ph between two different points in time or between two different conditions .
the measure of mass per unit of volume often used to determine body fat composition .
total body fat expressed as a percentage of body mass using the formula percent body fat equals 495 divided by body density minus 450 .
the total amount of body fat calculated as fat mass index equal to fat weight divided by height squared .
portion of the body not comprised of lipids often calculated as fat free mass equal to fat free mass divided by height squared .
the amount of gas remaining in the lung at the end of a maximal exhalation .
fat as a percentage of body weight using the formula percent body fat equal to 503 .3 divided by body density minus 459 .2 .
total body fat expressed as percentage of body weight using the formula percent fat equal to 437 .4 divided by body density minus 392 .8 .
total body fat expressed as a percentage of body mass using the equation percent fat equal to 483 .2 divided by body density minus 436 .9 .
a measurement of the physical form or structure of the adipose tissue in the body region between the thorax and pelvis .
a measurement of body adipose tissue taken in comparison to other measurements ,  typically whole body weight .
the weight of any or all of the adipose tissue types in the abdominal region .
distance between the tips of the longest fingers with the arms maximally outstretched laterally .
distance around the upper trunk of an organism ,  typically taken at the maximum breadth .
the distance around one of the paired front or upper limbs of a quadruped in the region closest to the body .
the number of hepatic cells ,  polyhedral epithelial cells that constitute the substance of a liver acinus ,  in a specified sample size .
the number of islet cells which secrete insulin and make up the islets of langerhans in the pancreas in a specified sample size .
number of cells in a specified sample of the innermost coat lining of the interior of the eyeball .
number of cells in a specified sample of the internal lining of a bronchus .
the number of osteoblasts ,  cells which arise from a fibroblast and are associated with the production of bone ,  in a specified sample size .
the number of osteoclasts ,  multinuclear cells associated with the absorption and removal of bone ,  in a specified sample size .
the number of purkinje cells ,  neurons in the cerebellar cortex ,  in a specified tissue sample .
the number of schwann cells ,  large nucleated cells whose membranes spirally wrap axons of myelinated peripheral neurons ,  in a specified sample volume .
number of oocytes ,  immature female reproductive cells in a specified sample size .
the number of mature male germ cells ,  sperm ,  in a specified volume of semen .
the number of neurons ,  conducting cells of the nervous system ,  in a specified sample .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the intestine ,  the portion of the alimentary canal extending from the pyloric opening of the stomach to the anus .
distance from end to end of the portion of the alimentary canal extending from the pyloric valve of the stomach to the anus .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the pancreas ,  the compound endocrine / exocrine gland located behind the stomach in vertebrates which secretes hormones  ( insulin ,  glucagon ,  and somatostatin )  into the bloodstream and digestive enzymes and ions such as sodium bicarbonate into the small intestine .
the weight of the pancreas ,  the compound endocrine / exocrine gland located behind the stomach in vertebrates which secretes hormones  ( insulin ,  glucagon ,  and somatostatin )  into the bloodstream and digestive enzymes and ions such as sodium bicarbonate into the small intestine .
measurement of the physical form or structure of either the right or the left upper chamber of the heart that receives blood from the veins and forces it into a ventricle .
the weight of the left atrium of the heart ,  the upper chamber on the left which empties into the lower chamber .
the weight of the right atrium ,  the upper right chamber of the heart which empties into the lower right chamber ,  i .e .
a measure of the capacity of the left heart atrium ,  the upper left chamber which empties into the lower heart chamber .
a measure of the three dimensional capacity of the right atrium of the heart ,  the upper right chamber which empties into the lower right chamber ,  i .e .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of one or both ventricles of the heart ,  that is ,  the lower chambers of the heart that pump blood away from the heart either to the lungs to be oxygenated or ,  once oxygenated ,  to the rest of the body .
a calculated measurement in which the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of both kidneys ,  the paired organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
measurement of an abnormal growth of tissue resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function .
the amount of insulin ,  the fuel - regulating peptide hormone which is formed from proinsulin in the beta cells of the pancreatic islets and which promotes the storage of glucose and the uptake of amino acids ,  increases protein and lipid synthesis ,  and inhibits lipolysis and gluconeogenesis ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the number of tumors found within the mammary gland .
the change is size between two points in time for a tumor found within the mammary gland .
the amount of time to the first discernible appearance of tumor in the mammary gland following the administration of a tumor causing agent .
the length of a transverse line moving from side to side through the center of a tumor located in the mammary gland .
measurement of an abnormal growth of tissue in the mammary gland resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function .
the weight of a tumor found within a mammary gland .
the amount of insulin ,  the fuel - regulating peptide hormone which is formed from proinsulin in the beta cells of the pancreatic islets and which promotes the storage of glucose and the uptake of amino acids ,  increases protein and lipid synthesis ,  and inhibits lipolysis and gluconeogenesis ,  in a specified sample of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
a calculated value in which a series of measurements of the amount of glucose ,  the monosaccharide sugar ,  c6h12o6 ,  occurring widely in plant and animal tissues which is one of the three dietary monosaccharides that are absorbed directly into the bloodstream during digestion ,  is the end product of carbohydrate metabolism ,  and is the chief source of energy for living organisms ,  in a specified volume of blood is plotted against time for a single individual and the extent of the two dimensional region bounded by the curve and the axes of the graph is determined .
a calculated value in which a series of measurements of the amount of insulin in a specified volume of blood is plotted against time for a single individual and the extent of the two dimensional region bounded by the curve and the axes of the graph is determined .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the amount of glucose ,  the monosaccharide sugar ,  c6h12o6 ,  occurring widely in plant and animal tissues which is one of the three dietary monosaccharides that are absorbed directly into the bloodstream during digestion ,  is the end product of carbohydrate metabolism ,  and is the chief source of energy for living organisms ,  in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of insulin ,  the fuel - regulating peptide hormone which is formed from proinsulin in the beta cells of the pancreatic islets and which promotes the storage of glucose and the uptake of amino acids ,  increases protein and lipid synthesis ,  and inhibits lipolysis and gluconeogenesis ,  in a specified sample of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
weight of the encapsulated adipose tissue attached t the membranous fold or mesentery of the abdomen .
weight of the encapsulated adipose tissue found posterior to the peritoneum .
weight of the encapsulated adipose tissue surrounding the epididymis ,  the structure along the posterior body of the testis .
the amount of insulin ,  the fuel - regulating peptide hormone which is formed from proinsulin in the beta cells of the pancreatic islets and which promotes the storage of glucose and the uptake of amino acids ,  increases protein and lipid synthesis ,  and inhibits lipolysis and gluconeogenesis ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of insulin ,  the fuel - regulating peptide hormone which is formed from proinsulin in the beta cells of the pancreatic islets and which promotes the storage of glucose and the uptake of amino acids ,  increases protein and lipid synthesis ,  and inhibits lipolysis and gluconeogenesis ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of triglycerides in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  molecules in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  molecules in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the entire amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  without taking into account any association with other molecules such as lipoproteins ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the calculation of the cellular elements of the blood ,  usually including cell counts for white and red blood cells and platelets .
the total number of leukocytes in 1 cubic millimeter of peripheral venous blood .
the number of each type of leukocyte present in a specific volume of blood ,  usually 1 cubic millimeter .
a calculated measurement in which the number of all granulocytes  ( regardless of type )  in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of white blood cells in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of basophil granulocytes is divided by the number of all white blood cells in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of eosinophil granulocytes is divided by the number of all white blood cells in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of neutrophil granulocytes is divided by the number of all white blood cells in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of white blood cells in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of b lymphocytes in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of white blood cells in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of t lymphocytes in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of white blood cells in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of monocytes in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of white blood cells in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of one or more white blood cells ,  any of various blood cells that have a nucleus and cytoplasm ,  separate into a thin white layer when whole blood is centrifuged ,  and help protect the body from infection and disease .
the complete or entire amount of bilirubin in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the level of calcium ions in a specified volume of plasma .
the amount of calcium ions and protein bound calcium in a specified volume of plasma .
blood ph is a measure of its acidity and is determined by the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration in a specified sample of blood .
total volume to which lungs can be expanded with greatest inspiratory effort .
the force per unit area attributable to the oxygen ,  the chemical element with atomic number 8 which is the essential agent in the respiration of plants and animals ,  dissolved in a specified volume of blood ,  defined as the force per unit area exerted by oxygen in a mixture of gases in equilibrium with such a sample of blood at the same temperature .
the amount of chloride ions in a specific volume of urine .
the amount of glucose in a specified volume of urine .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of microalbumin ,  that is ,  a level of albumin in the urine which is above normal but not detectable with routine protein testing ,  is divided by the amount of creatinine in a specified volume of urine .
the number of dissolved particles in a specified volume of urine .
the color of urine voided from the body .
measurement of the physical form or structure of an anterior appendage such as a leg or the homologous structure in other animals .
measurement of the physical form or structure of a posterior appendage such as a leg or the homologous structure in other animals .
the age ,  that is ,  the duration of the life of a female bird at the point in time when her initial egg is laid ;  the earliest or youngest age at which a specific individual has produced an egg .
the age ,  that is ,  the duration of the life of the mother at the point in time when her final offspring is born ;  the latest or oldest age at which a specific individual has given birth .
weight of the yellow portion of the egg of a bird .
number of eggs laid by a bird divided by the number of days over which the eggs are produced .
the length of time required from start to finish for the expulsion of semen from the male urethra .
the quantity determined by count of the number of embryos which have undergone cell division in a group of embryos produced by in vitro fertilization ,  the union of male and female germ cells outside the body ,  in an artificial environment such as in a laboratory medium .
any measurement of all or part of an ovum in combination with its nutrient stores and protective outer coverings ,  of a bird .
the height of the egg yolk of a bird divided by the diameter of the yolk .
measurement of the physical form or structure of any organ which is part of the complex of female gonads ,  associated ducts ,  and external genitalia concerned with sexual reproduction .
the weight of only one of the pair of female sexual glands in which the oocytes are formed .
the total weight of both of the female sexual glands in which the oocytes are formed .
distance between the two ends of one of the tubular extensions from the uterine body to which the uterine tube is connected .
measurement of the physical form or structure of any part of the structure which includes and encases the mammary gland ,  the specialized gland of the skin of female mammals ,  which secretes milk for nourishment of the young .
distance from the floor of the udder ,  the mammary organ or cattle and certain other mammals ,  to the point at the top where it joins the body wall .
distance from side to side of the udder ,  the mammary organ of cattle and certain other mammals ,  at the top of the rear attachment to the body .
measure of increase of in size of an organism over a specified period of time .
average increase in weight per day as calculated from total weight gain over a specified period of time .
increase in an organism's body weight over a specified period of time .
measure of the body of an organism after slaughter ,  with particular parts removed ,  often the head ,  hide or skin and internal organs .
distance from end to end of animal after slaughter and removal of the head .
length of time a female and male pair are in position for sexual union .
the weight of one of the paired anterior appendages of birds usually consisting of the humerus ,  radius ,  ulna ,  and metacarpus and all associated muscle and skin .
the quantification of any morphological or physiological parameter related to intake or ingestion ,  especially of food or drink ,  or a value resulting from such a quantification .
amount of food consumed over a specified period of time .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the adipose tissue in the posterior part of the trunk ,  usually from the neck to the pelvis .
total weight of all adipose tissue located in the posterior region of the trunk ,  usually from the neck to the pelvis .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the physical form or structure of the adipose tissue in the posterior part of the trunk ,  usually from the neck to the pelvis .
weight of subcutaneous fat along the back expressed as a percentage of total body or carcass weight .
depth of adipose tissue located in the area posterior part of the trunk .
depth of adipose tissue in the posterior trunk area at the location of the 10th rib .
depth of adipose tissue in the posterior area of the trunk ,  at the midpoint of the body length .
depth of the adipose tissue in the posterior trunk area located at the region of the third lumbar vertebra .
depth of adipose tissue in the posterior trunk area located in the region of the 1st rib .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the bony framework of the body or a portion of this framework .
number of bones of the spinal column .
distance from first vertebra to last vertebra making up the spinal column .
the distance from one end to the other of the ulna ,  the major bone of the forelimb .
weight of the appendage extending from the posterior end of the trunk .
distance from one end to the other of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
measure of the physical form or structure of one or more bones the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts .
measurement of the heaviness of the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
the number of teats ,  protuberances on the mammary glands ,  breasts or udders of female mammals through which milk is excreted .
distance between any two teats ,  protuberances from the breasts ,  mammary glands or udders of female mammals ,  which excrete milk .
distance from top of teat attached to mammary gland ,  breast or udder to the part of the teat farthest away .
aggregated weight of all muscle tissue from a single individual .
the number of vertebrae in the spinal column within the thorax ,  the middle portion of the spinal column usually extending from the neck to the thoracic diaphragm ,  encased by the ribs .
measurement of the linear distance from one end to the other of the tibia ,  the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
the weight of the tibia ,  the major bone of the lower portion of the hindlimb ,  which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
total amount of time spent consuming food during a specified period of time .
distance across the tibia ,  the major bone of the lower portion of the hindlimb ,  taken midway between the two ends of the bone .
total amount of time spent consuming liquids during a specified period of time .
amount of drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  consumed per unit time .
a measure of a single or group of fat cells ,  connective tissue cells specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat ;  such cells consist of a large cytoplasmic vesicle filled with globules of triglycerides with the nucleus displaced to one side and the cytoplasm seen as a thin line around the fat vesicle .
distance around a carcass taken in a parallel plane just above the anal opening .
the weight of an animal's body after slaughter with particular parts removed ,  often the head ,  internal organs and skin or hide .
the distance from end to end of a single cervical vertebra ,  that is ,  the distance between the two surfaces in one vertebra that connect to the corresponding surfaces of adjacent vertebrae .
distance from end to end of the expanse of the spinal column made up of cervical vertebrae ,  which constitutes the neck skeletal frame .
aggregated weight of all the bones making up the skeleton or hard framework of an individual organism's body .
aggregated weight of bones constituting the carcass of an animal after slaughter usually with portions removed such as the head .
distance from side to side of an organism's body after slaughter often with parts removed such as the head ,  skin or hide and internal organs .
weight of the diaphragm ,  the muscle separating the thoracic and abdominal cavities .
volume of food consumed in a single feeding episode .
weight of food consumed in a single feeding episode .
duration of pregnancy from time of fertilization of the oocyte until birth .
number of horns ,  pointed projections often found in pairs ,  on the head of an individual animal .
distance from end to end of the humerus ,  the bone in the upper portion of the forelimb .
weight of the proximal end of the intestine extending from the pyloric valve to the cecum .
weight of t the distal portion of the intestine extending from its junction with the small intestine to the anus .
number of teats located on the left side of an animal .
number of teats located on the right side of an animal .
the distance from first cervical vertebra to pelvis on an animal after slaughter .
the distance from the first rib to pelvis on an animal after slaughter .
the number of fat cells in a specified sample of adipose tissue .
any measurement related to immunoglobulin ,  any of several classes of proteins produced by plasma cells and lymphocytes which play essential roles in the immune system ,  for example ,  attaching to foreign substances in an effort to destroy them ,  in plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds to a specific antigen ,  a substance introduced into an organism which initiates an immune response including the production of the very antibodies which bind to it in an effort to destroy it ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds with escherichia coli ,  a gram negative rod - shaped bacterium ,  in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with a sequence that binds to escherichia coli ,  a gram negative rod - shaped bacteria ,  in a specific volume of plasma taken at a determined time point following a directed exposure to e . coli .
the amount of an immunoglobulin with a sequence that binds to escherichia coli ,  a gram negative rod - shaped bacteria ,  in a specific volume of plasma taken at a determined time point following vaccination for e . coli .
the difference in the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with sequence that binds to escherichia coli ,  a gram negative rod - shaped bacteria ,  in specified volumes of plasma taken before vaccination and at a determined time point after vaccination .
the difference in the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with sequence that binds to eschericia coli ,  a gram negative rod - shaped bacteria in specified volumes of plasma taken before a directed e . coli exposure and at a determined time point after e . coli challenge .
amount of adiponectin ,  a hormone that modulates glucose regulation and fatty acid catabolism ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of adiponectin ,  a hormone that modulates glucose regulation and fatty acid catabolism ,  in a specified sample of adipose tissue .
the amount of aldosterone ,  a hormone produced by the adrenal cortex which acts as a mineralocorticoid ,  found in a specified volume of serum .
the amount of carbonic acid dissolved in carbon dioxide and carbonate ion found in a specified volume of serum .
the amount of chloride ions found in a specified volume of serum .
an estimation of the volume of blood filtered from the kidney glomerular capillaries into the bowman's capsule per specified unit of time based on serum creatinine level ,  wieght and age of organism and other factors .
a calculated measurement which estimates the glomerular filtration rate  ( gfr )  ,  that is ,  the volume of fluid filtered from the renal capillaries per unit time ,  based on the serum creatinine level and adjusted for gender .
amount of potassium ions in a specified volume of serum .
the amount of potassium ions in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of chloride ions in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of sodium ions in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of sodium ions in a specified volume of serum .
the amount of uric acid ,  a heterocyclic compound of carbon ,  nitrogen ,  oxygen ,  and hydrogen , the end product of purine catabolism ,  in a specified sample of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
the amount of calcium ions in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of calcium ions in a specified volume of serum .
the amount of phosphorus ,  measured as inorganic phosphate ,  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of hemoglobin ,  the red oxygen - carrying pigment of erythrocytes ,  in a specified volume of blood ,  as calculated from the optical density of a solution of lysed red cells in which hemoglobin has been converted to cyanomethemoglobin and measured with a spectrophotometer .
the optical density as calculated from the intensity of light at a specified wavelength as it passes through a solution of lysed red blood cells .
a measure of the oxygen carrying pigment of erythrocytes .
the amount of androstenedione ,  an androgenic steroid produced by the testis ,  adrenal cortex and ovary ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of cortisol ,  the major natural glucocorticoid synthesized in the adrenal cortex and which affects the metabolism of glucose ,  protein and fats ,  in a specific volume of blood .
the amount of cortisol ,  a glucocorticoid which affects the metabolism of glucose ,  protein and fats ,  in a specified volume of serum .
the amount of aldosterone ,  a hormone produced by the adrenal cortex ,  which acts as a mineralcorticoid ,  found in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of apolipoprotein ,  any or all of the protein constituents of lipoproteins found in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
the amount of apolipoprotein a ,  a class of apolipoproteins that occur primarily in high density lipoproteins ,  in a specified volume of blood .
measurement of the amount of chylomicrons ,  a class of lipoproteins  ( approximate density range  < 0 .95 g / ml )  that transport exogenous triglycerides and cholesterol from the small intestine to other tissues ,  found in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
blood pressure measured in the pulmonary artery during diastole ,  that is ,  during dilation or relaxation of the heart ventricles .
blood pressure measured in the pulmonary artery during systole ,  that is ,  during contraction of the heart ventricles .
a calculated value in which the weight of the left ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the left side of the heart ,  which pumps oxygenated blood out through the aorta to all the tissues of the body ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and by extension to the size of the organism .
difference in respiratory rate between two points in time or two conditions expressed as a percentage .
difference in tidal volume between two points in time or two conditions expressed as a percentage .
the difference in mean arterial blood pressure between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
absolute difference in heart rate between two points in time or two conditions .
the amount of ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  found in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
the number of glomeruli in all or part of a kidney .
a calculated value in which the weight of the left ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the left side of the heart ,  which pumps oxygenated blood out through the aorta to all the tissues of the body ,  is presented as percentage of the total weight of the body thus normalizing it to body weight .
the amount of phosphorus ,  measured as inorganic phosphate ,  in a specified sample of serum .
measurement of the amount of glucose ,  the monosaccharide sugar ,  c6h12o6 ,  occurring widely in plant and animal tissues which is one of the three dietary monosaccharides that are absorbed directly into the bloodstream during digestion ,  is the end product of carbohydrate metabolism ,  and is the chief source of energy for living organisms ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of triglycerides in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of albumin in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of albumin in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  found in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  found in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of angiotensin ii in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of angiotensin ii in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of enzymatic activity of glutamic - pyruvate transaminase enzyme ,  commonly known as alanine transaminase or alanine aminotransferase  ( alt )  ,  enzyme in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of ezymatic activity of glutamic - pyruvate transaminase enzyme ,  commonly known as alanine transaminase or alanine aminotransferase  ( alt )  ,  enzyme in a specified sample of serum .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by alkaline phosphatase  ( ap )  in a specified sample of blood .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by alkaline phosphatase  ( ap )  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  in a specified sample of blood .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin converting enzyme  ( ace )  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of enzymatic activity of glutamic - oxaloacetic transaminase enzyme ,  commonly known as aspartate transaminase or aspartate aminotransferase  ( ast )  ,  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of enzymatic activity of glutamic - oxaloacetic transaminase enzyme ,  commonly known as aspartate transaminase or aspartate aminotransferase  ( ast )  ,  in a specified sample of serum .
a measure of the amount of carboxyhemoglobin formed by the combination of carbon monoxide and hemoglobin in a specified volume of whole blood .
measurement of the entire amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  without taking into account any association with other molecules such as lipoproteins ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the level of urea in terms of nitrogen content measured in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .the plasma urea nitrogen level is converted to urea concentration by multiplying by 60 / 28 or 2 .14 .
the level of urea in terms of nitrogen content found in a specific volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of hemoglobin ,  the oxygen carrying pigment of erythrocytes ,  found in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a measure of the amount of carboxyhemoglobin formed by the combination of carbon monoxide and hemoglobin in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
an estimation of the amount of renin in a specific volume of serum calculated from the rate of formation of angiotensin i or ii .
the difference in the levels of renin catalytic activity in blood plasma between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
measurement of the number of lymphocytes expressing the cd4 antigen on their surface in a specified volume of whole blood .
measurement of the number of lymphocytes expressing the cd8 antigen on their surface in a specified volume of whole blood .
calculated measurement of the ratio in whole blood of lymphocytes expressing the cd4 antigen on the surface to lymphocytes expressing the cd8 antigen on the surface .
measurement of the number of lymphocytes expressing the cd25 antigen on their surface in a specified volume of whole blood .
measurement of the number of t lymphocytes  ( t cell )  whose function is control or suppression of the t cell mediated immune response .
a calculated measurement in which number of t lymphocytes in a specified sample of blood expressing the surface cd25 antigen is divided by number of t lymphocytes in the same sample of blood expressing the surface cd4 antigen ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of t lymphocytes in a specified sample of blood expressing surface cd25 antigen is divided by the number of t lymphocytes in the same sample of blood expressing surface cd8 antigen and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
measurement of the pressure within the heart left ventricle at the end of systole ,  the period of contraction of the heart when the blood is forced from the ventricles into the pulmonary artery  ( right ventricle )  and the aorta  ( left ventricle )  .
the pressure in the heart left ventricle at the end of diastole ,  the period when the heart is in a state of relaxation and expansion and the ventricles fill with blood .
calculated measurement of a difference in the maximum arterial blood pressure ,  that is the pressure at the point of maximal contraction of the heart ,  between two points in time or two conditions expressed as a number  ( positive or negative )  ,  not as a ratio or percentage relative to another quantity .
calculated measurement of a difference in diastolic blood pressure between two points or two conditions expressed as a number  ( positive or negative )  ,  not as a ratio or percentage relative to another quantity .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the thymus ,  the lymphoid organ which is the site of the proliferation ,  differentiation and maturation of t lymphocytes ,  and of the production of hormones such as thymopoietin and thymosin which control these processes .
the weight of the thymus ,  the lymphoid organ which is the site of the proliferation ,  differentiation and maturation of t lymphocytes ,  and of the production of hormones such as thymopoietin and thymosin which control these processes .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the pituitary gland ,  the small ,  oval endocrine gland attached to the base of the vertebrate brain and consisting of an anterior and posterior lobe ,  the secretions of which control the other endocrine glands and influence growth ,  metabolism ,  and maturation .
the weight of the pituitary gland ,  the small ,  oval endocrine gland attached to the base of the vertebrate brain and consisting of an anterior and posterior lobe ,  the secretions of which control the other endocrine glands and influence growth ,  metabolism ,  and maturation .
a calculated measurement in which the total ,  combined weight of both adrenal glands is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of a single kidney ,  one of the paired organs which function to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
a calculated measurement in which the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of a single kidney ,  one of the paired organs which function to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
the weight of the pancreas after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight of the pancreas after desiccation .
the weight ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation ,  of one individual lung ,  the organ component of the respiratory system responsible for the exchange of gases between the environment and the blood .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the liver is divided by total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the retroperitoneal fat pad ,  the mass of closely packed fat cells surrounded by fibrous tissue located behind the peritoneum ,  is divided by the total body weight of the organism and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
the heaviness ,  i .e .the degree to which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  of one or both of a pair of pouchlike glands situated on each side of the male urinary bladder that secrete seminal fluid and nourish and promote the movement of spermatozoa through the urethra .
the heaviness of the epididymides ,  i .e . ,  the degree to which one or both of the epididymides is drawn toward the ground .
number of sperm which display autokinesia divided by the total number of sperm  in a sample ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement of a mature male gamete or germ cell that consists of a cylindrical nucleated cell with a short neck and a thin motile tail ,  contains genetic information to be transmitted by the male ,  exhibits autokinesia ,  and is able to effect zygosis with an ovum .
any measurement of a group of neonates ,  products of one gestation ,  provided the average number per gestation is in excess of two .
the number ,  i .e . ,  the quantity determined by count ,  of animals in a group of neonates ,  products of one gestation produced at one birth by a multiparous mammal .
the quantity determined by count of the number of animals in a group of neonates ,  products of one gestation produced at one birth by a multiparous mammal ,  that survive and are alive at birth ,  divided by the total number of offspring in the litter ,  expressed as a percent .
number of sperm which display no defects in form or function divided by the total number of sperm  in a sample ,  expressed as a percentage .
the total number of sperm ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  molecules in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  molecules in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in very low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  molecules in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in very low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  molecules in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in very low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  molecules in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the prostate gland ,  the gland surrounding the male urethra just below the base of the bladder which secretes a fluid that constitutes a major portion of the semen .
the weight ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation ,  of the prostate gland .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the encapsulated adipose tissue surrounding the epididymis ,  the structure along the posterior body of the testis .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the epididymal fat pad is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of blood globulins ,  a broad category of proteins classified by solubility ,  electrophoretic mobility ,  and size .
measurement of the total amount of all proteins ,  the complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  found in a specific volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any measurement of components of the periodic tightening and loosening of the heart muscle .
measure of the time from the relaxation of the heart muscle to the beginning of the tightening of the heart muscle during contraction .
measurement of the time from the beginning of heart muscle contraction to the maximum contracted state .
pressure exerted by the heart muscle in its maximally contracted state .
the amount of ezymatic activity of lactate dehydrogenase  ( ldh )  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of ezymatic activity of lactate dehydrogenase  ( ldh )  in a specified volume of plasma .
the amount of ezymatic activity of lactate dehydrogenase  ( ldh )  in a specified volume of serum .
any measurement of a structural part of a system of the body that is composed of tissues and cells that enable it to perform a particular function .
a measurement made on a fluid flowing out of the heart .
the volume of a fluid flowing out of the heart .
the volume of a fluid flowing out of the heart during a specified amount of time .
measurement of a fluid flowing out of an organ ,  especially one which has been removed from the body for study .
the amount of an enzyme in a specified volume of fluid flowing out of the heart .
the amount of lactate dehydrogenase activity measured in a specified volume of fluid flowing out of the heart .
measurement of a lesion in an organ .
a measurement of any lesion of the heart .
measurement of an area of necrotic tissue resulting from a reduction or obstruction of the oxygen supplied to that tissue .
measurement of an area of necrotic tissue in the heart resulting from a reduction or obstruction of the oxygen supply .
measurement of an area of necrotic tissue in the brain resulting from a reduction or obstruction of the oxygen supply to the brain .
measurement of an area of necrotic tissue in the left ventricle of the heart resulting from a reduction or obstruction of the oxygen supply to the heart .
measurement of the area ,  volume or weight of necrotic tissue resulting from a reduction or obstruction of the oxygen supplied to that tissue .
measurement of the area ,  volume or weight of necrotic tissue in the heart resulting from a reduction or obstruction of the oxygen supply to the heart .
measurement of the area ,  volume or weight of necrotic tissue in the heart left ventricle resulting from a reduction or obstruction of the oxygen supply to the heart .
the heaviness of one or both ventricles of the heart ,  that is ,  the lower chambers of the heart that pump blood away from the heart either to the lungs to be oxygenated or ,  once oxygenated ,  to the rest of the body ,  or the degree to which one or both ventricles of the heart are drawn toward the earth by gravity .
the difference in body temperature between two different points in time or between two different conditions .
measurement of the amount of resistance in a blood vessel to the flow of blood or other fluid through it .
resistance to blood flow by blood vessels in the lung .
measurement of vascular resistance in lung blood vessels calculated from other indirect measurements .
a measure of a blood vessel's ability to stretch ,  dilate or expand .
measurement made on the endothelial tissue or endothelial cells lining a blood vessel .
ratio of the methylene blue metabolism - surface area product without auto - oxidation to the fapgg metabolism - surface area product .
the administered quantity of methacholine ,  a quaternary ammonium ion in which the nitrogen is substituted with three methyl groups and a 2 - acetoxypropyl group and which acts as a parasympathomimetic bronchoconstrictor ,  at which the ability of the repiratory tract to allow airflow during breathing  ( inspration and expiration )  is half its value in an untreated subject ,  or at which the resistance of the respiratory tract to airflow is doubled .
any measurement of the energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel ,  any one of the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body ,  resulting from contraction of the muscular wall of the vessel .
measurement of the highest achievable amount of energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel ,  any one of the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body ,  resulting from contraction of the muscular wall of the vessel .
measurement of an organism's ,  organ's ,  tissue's or cell's capacity to respond ,  such as by a change in activity ,  state or condition ,  to a drug or other chemical stimulus .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel ,  any one of the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body ,  resulting from contraction of the muscular wall of the vessel .
a calculated value for the concentration of phenylephrine  ( pe )  ,  the phenylethanolamine with iupac name  ( r )  - 3 -  [  - 1 - hydroxy - 2 -  ( methylamino ) ethyl ] phenol and formula c9h13no2 that acts as a selective alpha1 - adrenergic receptor agonist ,  decongestant and vasoconstrictor ,  at which the energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of pe is halfway between the baseline value and the highest achievable value of such pe - induced contractile energy .
a calculated value for logarithm of the concentration of phenylephrine  ( pe )  ,  the phenylethanolamine with iupac name  ( r )  - 3 -  [  - 1 - hydroxy - 2 -  ( methylamino ) ethyl ] phenol and formula c9h13no2 that acts as a selective alpha1 - adrenergic receptor agonist ,  decongestant and vasoconstrictor ,  at which the energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of pe is halfway between the baseline value and the highest achievable value of such pe - induced contractile energy .
measurement of the reduction in force during dilation of a blood vessel via calculations from direct measurements rather than expressing the direct measurements themselves .
a calculated value for the concentration of acetylcholine   ( ach )  ,  the ester of acetic acid and choline with chemical formula ch3c=oo ( ch2 ) 2 - n (  +  )  -  ( ch3 ) 3 and iupac name 2 - acetoxy - n , n , n - trimethylethanaminium ,  which acts as a neurotransmitter ,  at which the energy exerted during the active expansion in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of ach is halfway between the highest value ,  that is the force at greatest constriction  ( often measured in a pre - constricted blood vessel )  ,  and the lowest achievable value of such contractile energy during ach - induced relaxation of the vessel wall  ( i .e .
a calculated value for logarithm of the concentration of acetylcholine   ( ach )  ,  the ester of acetic acid and choline with chemical formula ch3c=oo ( ch2 ) 2 - n (  +  )  -  ( ch3 ) 3 and iupac name 2 - acetoxy - n , n , n - trimethylethanaminium ,  which acts as a neurotransmitter ,  at which the energy exerted during the active expansion in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of ach is halfway between the highest value ,  that is the force at greatest constriction  ( often measured in a pre - constricted blood vessel )  ,  and the lowest achievable value of such contractile energy during ach - induced relaxation of the vessel wall  ( i .e .
a calculated value for the concentration of sodium nitroprusside  ( snp )  ,  the red - colored inorganic salt with the formula na2 [ fe ( cn ) 5no ]  - 2h2o used as a potent vasodilator ,  at which the energy exerted during the active expansion in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of snp is halfway between the highest value ,  that is the force at greatest constriction  ( often measured in a pre - constricted blood vessel )  ,  and the lowest achievable value of such contractile energy during snp - induced relaxation of the vessel wall  ( i .e .
a calculated value for logarithm of the concentration of sodium nitroprusside  ( snp )  ,  the red - coloured inorganic salt with the formula na2 [ fe ( cn ) 5no ]  - 2h2o used as a potent vasodilator ,  at which the energy exerted during the active expansion in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of snp is halfway between the highest value ,  that is the force at greatest constriction  ( often measured in a pre - constricted blood vessel )  ,  and the lowest achievable value of such contractile energy during snp - induced relaxation of the vessel wall  ( i .e .
measurement of the reduction in force during blood vessel dilation .
measurement of an organism's ,  organ's ,  tissue's or cell's capacity to respond ,  such as by a change in activity ,  state or condition ,  to acetylcholine  ( ach )  ,  the ester of acetic acid and choline with chemical formula ch3c=oo ( ch2 ) 2 - n (  +  )  -  ( ch3 ) 3 and iupac name 2 - acetoxy - n , n , n - trimethylethanaminium ,  which acts as a neurotransmitter .
measurement of an organism's ,  organ's ,  tissue's or cell's capacity to respond ,  such as by a change in activity ,  state or condition ,  to methacholine ,  a quaternary ammonium ion in which the nitrogen is substituted with three methyl groups and a 2 - acetoxypropyl group and which acts as a parasympathomimetic bronchoconstrictor .
measurement of an organism's ,  organ's ,  tissue's or cell's capacity to respond ,  such as by a change in activity ,  state or condition ,  to phenylephrine  ( pe )  ,  the phenylethanolamine with iupac name  ( r )  - 3 -  [  - 1 - hydroxy - 2 -  ( methylamino ) ethyl ] phenol and formula c9h13no2 that acts as a selective alpha1 - adrenergic receptor agonist ,  decongestant and vasoconstrictor .
measurement of an organism's ,  organ's ,  tissue's or cell's capacity to respond ,  such as by a change in activity ,  state or condition ,  to sodium nitroprusside  ( snp )  ,  the red - colored inorganic salt with the formula na2 [ fe ( cn ) 5no ]  - 2h2o used as a potent vasodilator .
amount of water ,  the clear ,  colorless ,  odorless ,  tasteless liquid each molecule of which contains one atom of oxygen and two atoms of hydrogen  ( h2o )  ,  consumed as a drink per unit time .
calculation of a difference between representations of blood pressure in a treated versus untreated state or over time ,  after the original values have been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement of the difference in developed blood pressure between a treated state and a control state .
a calculated measurement of the difference in developed blood pressure between a treated state and a control state ,  expressed as a percentage .
calculated measurement of a difference in the maximum arterial blood pressure ,  that is the pressure at the point of maximal contraction of the heart ,  between two points in time or two conditions .
the relative difference in the maximum arterial blood pressure ,  that is the pressure at the point of maximal contraction of the heart ,  between two points in time or two conditions expressed as a percentage .
a calculated measurement of the difference in developed pressure measured in the heart left ventricle between a treated state and a control state ,  expressed as a percentage .
a calculated measurement of the difference in developed pressure measured in the heart left ventricle between a treated state and a control state .
difference in the pressure within the heart left ventricle at the point of maximal contraction ,  when the blood is forced from the left ventricle into the aorta ,  between two points in time or two conditions .
the relative difference in the pressure within the heart left ventricle at the point of maximal contraction ,  when the blood is forced from the left ventricle into the aorta ,  between two points in time or two conditions expressed as a percentage .
the amount of a particular constituent of urine ,  such as an ion or salt ,  excreted into the urine per unit time .
the amount of albumin excreted into the urine within a specified period of time .
the amount of an electrolyte ,  that is ,  a substance that dissociates into ions ,  excreted in the urine per unit time .
the amount of protein excreted in urine per unit time .
the amount of sodium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 11 ,  discharged in the urine ,  the fluid waste product separated and discharged by the kidneys ,  per unit time .
the amount of potassium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 19 ,  that have lost one electron forming a cation with a charge of  + 1 ,  discharged in the urine per unit time .
the amount of chloride ,  the chemical element with atomic number 17 ,  that have gained one electron forming an anion with a charge of  - 1 ,  discharged in the urine per unit time .
measurement of the amount of creatinine eliminated from the body in the urine per unit time .
the clearance rate of creatinine ,  that is ,  the volume of plasma that is cleared of creatinine by the kidneys per unit time .
any measurement of creatinine in urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
the quantification of any parameter related to the process whereby drink ,  any liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  is taken in for utilization by the body .
the quantification of any parameter related to the process whereby food  ( i .e .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the amount of drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  consumed in a specified period of time .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the amount of water ,  the clear ,  colorless ,  odorless ,  tasteless liquid each molecule of which contains one atom of oxygen and two atoms of hydrogen  ( h2o )  ,  consumed as a drink in a specified period of time .
the activity level of ldh in effluent expressed relative to the weight of the heart ;  calculated as ldh activity divided by heart wet weight .
the average blood pressure within the pulmonary artery over a specified period of time ,  or technically over a complete cycle of one heartbeat .
measurement of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery .
measurements involving organs or structures which release their products into the blood or lymph  ( endocrine )  or through a duct opening on an internal or external surface of the body  ( exocrine )  .
measurements involving an exocrine gland or its product ( s )  .
measurement involving a fluid or other secretion produced by an exocrine gland ,  that is ,  one which discharges its secretions through a duct opening on an internal or external surface of the body .
measurement involving the mammary gland ,  the milk - producing gland in female mammals ,  consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat .
measurement of the constituents or properties of milk ,  a colloidal emulsion of water ,  protein ,  fats and carbohydrates produced by the mammary glands of female mammals .
measurement of the amount or composition of fat in milk .
measurement of the amount or composition of protein in milk .
the amount of fat ,  protein ,  lactose ,  and minerals in milk .
measurement of the number or composition of somatic cells in milk .
the number of somatic cells  ( leukocytes and epithelial cells )  present in milk ;  a high count is an indicator of mastitis .
transformation of the number of somatic cells  ( leukocytes and epithelial cells )  present in milk  ( ln ( scc / 100 , 000 )  + 3 )  .
the amount in milk of macromolecules consisting of long sequences of amino acids in peptide linkage .
the amount in milk of macromolecules consisting of long sequences of amino acids in peptide linkage ,  expressed as a percentage of total milk amount .
the total amount of milk protein produced over a specific period of time .
measurement of the amount of casein ,  the predominant phosphoprotein in milk .
the measured amount of casein ,  the predominant phosphoprotein in milk expressed as a normalized or otherwise mathematically adjusted value .
the amount of casein ,  the predominant phosphoprotein in milk expressed as  [  ( alpha - s1 cn %  +  alpha - s2 cn %  +  beta - cn %  +  kappa - cn % )  /  ( sum of all casein and whey protein % )  ]  x 100 .
the amount of casein ,  the predominant phosphoprotein in milk ,  expressed as a percentage of total milk protein .
the amount in milk of the alpha fraction of the casein phosphoprotein .
the amount in milk of the beta fraction of the casein phosphoprotein .
the amount in milk of kappa - casein ,  a casein which plays a crucial role in micellar structure ;  its concentration determines micellar size .
the amount in milk of the alpha fraction of the casein phosphoprotein ,  expressed as a percentage of total casein content or total milk protein .
the amount in milk of the beta fraction of the casein phosphoprotein ,  expressed as a percentage of total casein or total milk protein .
the amount in milk of kappa - casein ,  a casein which plays a crucial role in micellar structure ,  expressed as a percentage of total milk protein .
the combined alpha - lactalbumin and beta - lactoglobulin content in milk .
the amount in milk of alpha - lactalbumin ,  an enzyme that catalyzes lactose synthesis in mammary epithelial cells .
the amount in milk of beta - lactoglobulin ,  which may bind retinol ;  this milk constituent is allergenic .
the combined alpha - lactalbumin and beta - lactoglobulin content in milk ,  expressed as a value which has been normalized or otherwise mathmatically adjusted .
the amount in milk of alpha - lactalbumin ,  an enzyme that catalyzes lactose synthesis in mammary epithelial cells ,  expressed as a percentage of total milk protein .
the amount in milk of beta - lactoglobulin ,  which may bind retinol ,  expressed as a percentage of total whey protein or total protein .
the total amount of milk fat produced over a specific period of time .
the ratio of fat yield to protein yield in milk .
the amount of fat in milk ,  expressed as a percentage of total milk amount .
measurement of the absolute amount or proportion of saturated and / or unsaturated straight chain monocarboxylic  ( fatty )  acids in milk .
measurement of the absolute amount or proportion of straight chain monocarboxylic acids with one or more double or triple carbon - carbon bonds found in milk fat .
measurement of the absolute amount or proportion of straight chain monocarboxylic acids without double bonds in their chains found in milk fat .
measurement of the amount of straight chain monocarboxylic acids with only one double or triple carbon - carbon bond found in milk fat .
measurement of the amount of straight chain monocarboxylic acids with two or more double or triple carbon - carbon bonds found in milk fat .
measurement of the amount of omega - 3 fatty acids in milk fat .
measurement of the amount of omega - 6 fatty acids in milk fat .
measurement of the amount of unsaturated fatty acids containing at least one double bond in the trans configuration in milk fat .
the amount or concentration of fat in milk .
the amount in milk fat of an unsaturated ,  omega - 3 fatty acid with a twelve - carbon backbone and one double bond ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with a fourteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 9 ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with a sixteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 9 ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 9 ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a trans double bond at c - 11 .
the amount in milk fat of any / all isomers of linoleic acid in which the double bonds are conjugated ,  i .e .
the amount in milk fat of an unsaturated ,  omega - 6 fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a ten - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a twelve - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a fourteen - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a fifteen - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a sixteen - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid content .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a twenty - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a twenty - four - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid content .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a six - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid content .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with an eight - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of total fatty acid content .
measurement in milk of the amount of an organic substance which occurs in small amounts in food and is necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the proportion or amount in milk of a carotenoid that is the most common precursor to vitamin a .
the weight together ,  after desiccation ,  of both lungs ,  the organ component of the respiratory system responsible for the exchange of gases between the environment and the blood .
the weight of the prostate gland ,  the gland surrounding the male urethra just below the base of the bladder which secretes a fluid that constitutes a major portion of the semen .
the weight ,  after desiccation ,  of the prostate gland .
the weight of the ventral lobe of the prostate gland .
the weight of the ventral lobe of the prostate gland after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight of the ventral lobe of the prostate gland after desiccation .
the weight of the pituitary gland after desiccation .
the weight of the pituitary gland after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight of the thymus after desiccation .
the weight of the thymus after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight after desiccation of one or both of the testes ,  the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the lung ( s )  ,  the organ component of the respiratory system responsible for the exchange of gases between the environment and the blood .
measurement of an organ lesion which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
measurement of an organ lesion which is not neoplastic in origin .
measurement of a heart lesion which is not neoplastic in origin .
measurement of a lesion of the testes ,  the male reproductive glands that produce spermatozoa and secrete androgens .
measurement of a lesion of the testes ,  the male reproductive glands that produce spermatozoa and secrete androgens which is not neoplastic in origin .
measurement of a lesion of the testes ,  the male reproductive glands that produce spermatozoa and secrete androgens ,  which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
measurement of a lesion of the heart which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
measurement of a lesion of the mammary gland which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
the volume of a single isolated fat cell ,  a connective tissue cell specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat ;  such cells consist of a large cytoplasmic vesicle filled with globules of triglycerides with the nucleus displaced to one side and the cytoplasm seen as a thin line around the fat vesicle .
measurement of the amount of glucose transported into a sample of fat cells .
measurement of the maximum ,  that is ,  the maximally stimulated ,  amount of glucose that can be transported into a fat cell .
measurement of the unstimulated ,  baseline or lowest possible amount of glucose transported into a fat cell .
the difference in the amount of glucose transported into a fat cell between two conditions ,  for example between the basal or baseline state and a stimulated state ,  such as occurs with administration of insulin .
the relationship between the maximum and minimum amounts of glucose which are transported into a fat cell ,  usually expressed as a decimal fraction .
measurement of the amount of free fatty acids ,  i .e .
measurement of the unstimulated ,  baseline or lowest possible amount of free or non - esterified fatty acid released / secreted from a fat cell .
measurement of the maximum ,  that is ,  the maximally stimulated ,  amount of free or non - esterified fatty acid that can be released / secreted from a fat cell .
the difference in the amount of free or non - esterified fatty acid released / secreted from a fat cell between two conditions ,  for example between the basal or baseline state and a stimulated state ,  such as occurs with administration of a hormone which stimulates lipolysis .
the relationship between the maximum and minimum amounts of free or non - esterified fatty acid released / secreted from a fat cell ,  usually expressed as a decimal fraction .
any measurement of one or more lesion ( s )  in the prostate gland ,  the gland surrounding the male urethra just below the base of the bladder which secretes a fluid that constitutes a major portion of the semen .
measurement of one or more prostate lesion ( s )  which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
the number of individuals in a study population which display prostate tumorous lesions at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of tumorous lesions in the prostate gland ,  the gland surrounding the male urethra just below the base of the bladder which secretes a fluid that constitutes a major portion of the semen .
any measurement of the size of an individual tumorous lesion in the prostate ,  or of the amount of the prostate occupied by tumorous lesions .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an individual tumorous lesion in the prostate ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by tumorous lesions in a cross - section of the prostate .
a measurement of the total extent of the two - dimensional surface of the prostate occupied by tumorous lesions ,  or a measurement of the total extent of a two - dimensional cross - section through the prostate occupied by tumorous lesions .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an individual tumorous lesion in the prostate .
measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an individual tumorous lesion in the prostate ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by tumorous lesions in a cross - section of the prostate when such a measurement has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement in which the area of the prostate gland occupied by tumorous lesions is divided by the total area of the prostate gland ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
measurement of one or more tumorous lesion ( s )  of the ventral lobe of the prostate .
the number of tumorous lesions in the ventral lobe of the prostate gland .
the number of individuals in a study population which display tumorous lesions of the ventral lobe of the prostate compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement of the size of an individual tumorous lesion in the ventral lobe of the prostate ,  or of the amount of the ventral lobe of the prostate occupied by tumorous lesions .
any measurement of the area of an individual tumorous lesion in the ventral lobe of the prostate ,  or of the area of the ventral lobe of the prostate occupied by tumorous lesions .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an individual tumorous lesion in the ventral prostate .
a measurement of the total extent of the two - dimensional surface of the ventral prostate occupied by tumorous lesions ,  or a measurement of the total extent of a two - dimensional cross - section through the ventral prostate occupied by tumorous lesions .
measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an individual tumorous lesion in the ventral prostate ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by tumorous lesions in a cross - section of the ventral prostate when such a measurement has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement in which the area of the ventral lobe of the prostate gland occupied by tumorous lesions is divided by the total area of the ventral lobe of the prostate gland ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the wet weight of one of the testes ,  the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop ,  is divided by the total body weight of the organism and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the wet weight of both testes ,  the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop ,  is divided by the total body weight of the organism and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
measurement of an abnormal growth of tissue in the prostate gland resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the urinary bladder ,  the elastic ,  muscular sac in which urine collects before excretion .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the ureter ,  one or both of the long ,  narrow ducts that convey urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the urethra ,  the canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder in most mammals and through which semen is discharged in the male .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological ,  involving the kidney or any part thereof .
renal blood flow  ( rbf )  is the volume of blood delivered to or exiting from the kidneys per unit time .
arterial renal blood flow  ( rbfa )  is the volume of blood delivered to the kidneys per unit time via the renal arteries .
venous renal blood flow  ( rbfv )  is the volume of blood exiting from the kidneys per unit time via the renal veins .
measurement of a lesion of the brain ,  the portion of the central nervous system enclosed within the cranium which is composed of gray matter and white matter and is the primary center for the regulation and control of bodily activities ,  receiving and interpreting sensory impulses ,  and transmitting information to the muscles and body organs .
any measurement of all or part of the brain ,  the portion of the central nervous system enclosed within the cranium which is composed of gray matter and white matter and is the primary center for the regulation and control of bodily activities ,  receiving and interpreting sensory impulses ,  and transmitting information to the muscles and body organs .
measurement of a brain lesion which is not neoplastic in origin .
measurement of an organ lesion which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
a calculated value in which the weight of the right ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the right side of the heart ,  which pumps venous blood through the pulmonary trunk and arteries to the capillaries of the lung ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio thus normalizing it to body weight .
a calculated value in which the weight of the right ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the right side of the heart ,  which pumps venous blood through the pulmonary trunk and arteries to the capillaries of the lung ,  is presented as percentage of the total weight of the body thus normalizing it to body weight .
measurement of the bodily system that consists of the muscles ,  bones ,  joints ,  and related structures ,  such as the tendons and connective tissue and which supports and protects the body ,  functions in the movement of body parts and organs ,  produces blood cells ,  and stores minerals .
measurement of one or more of the articulations between bones which may be immovable ,  slightly movable or freely movable .
measurement of inflammation of one or more joints .
a measurement of joint inflammation which is derived from a combination of multiple measurements and / or objective or subjective severity scores according to a specified formula or set of criteria .
measurement of the ability of platelets to aggregate in response to a known platelet aggregating factor such as collagen ,  adp or thrombin .
any measurement of platelets ,  the disk - shaped structures found in the blood of mammals which play a vital role in blood coagulation .
measurement of the amount or concentration of calcium within platelets .
any measurement which is used to assess the ability of platelets to become activated ,  aggregate and promote clotting .
a non - tumorous ,  that is non - neoplastic ,  lesion of the brain which involves or is caused by a component of the vascular system and blood supply of the brain .
the number of individuals in a study population which display non - tumorous cerebrovascular lesions at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display a disease at a point in time or develop a disease within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population displaying at a point in time one or more tumors -  - that is ,  abnormal growth ( s )  of tissue resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells which serve no physiological function -  -  of a particular organ or developing such growths within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display one or more tumorous lesion ( s )  of a particular organ at a point in time or develop such lesions within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display one or more non - tumorous lesion ( s )  of a particular organ at a point in time or develop such lesions within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display one or more non - tumorous lesion ( s )  of the brain at a point in time or develop such lesions within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display one or more non - tumorous cerebrovascular lesion ( s )  at a point in time or develop such lesions within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of individuals in a study population which develop new instances of non - tumorous cerebrovascular lesions during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which develop new instances of prostate tumorous lesions during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display one or more prostate tumorous lesion ( s )  at a point in time or develop such lesions within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population displaying at a point in time one or more prostate tumors -  - that is ,  abnormal growth ( s )  of the tissue of the prostate gland ,  the gland surrounding the male urethra just below the base of the bladder which secretes a fluid that constitutes a major portion of the semen ,  resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells which serve no physiological function -  - or developing such growths within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display renal agenesis ,  the failure to develop one or both kidneys ,  at a point in time or the number of new cases of renal agenesis which appear within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display unilateral renal agenesis ,  the failure to develop one of the kidneys ,  at a point in time or the number of new cases of unilateral renal agenesis which appear within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display bilateral renal agenesis ,  the failure to develop both kidneys resulting in a complete lack of kidneys in the individual ,  at a point in time or the number of new cases of bilateral renal agenesis which appear within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of individuals in a study population which display unilateral renal agenesis ,  the failure to develop one of the kidneys ,  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of unilateral renal agenesis ,  the failure to develop one of the kidneys ,  appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display bilateral renal agenesis ,  the failure to develop both kidneys resulting in a complete lack of kidneys in the individual ,  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of bilateral renal agenesis ,  the failure to develop both kidneys resulting in a complete lack of kidneys in the individual ,  appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which develop new instances of tumorous lesions of the ventral prostate during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display tumors of the prostate gland compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which develop new instances of prostate tumors during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population displaying one or more tumors of the mammary gland at a point in time or developing such growths within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of individuals in a study population which display tumors of the mammary gland compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which develop new instances of mammary tumors during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement of urine protein which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated value in which the weight of the amount of protein in a specific volume of urine is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio thus normalizing it to body weight .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the left ventricle of the heart .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the right ventricle of the heart .
any measurement of a change of place or position of all or part of the body of an organism .
measurement of a movement of all or part of the body which originated ,  or was undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of an organism's free will or choice .
any measurement of the movement of an organism from one place or position to another  ( especially such a movement accomplished by the action of appendages such as flagella ,  limbs ,  or wings )  which originated with or was undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of that organism's free will or choice .
any measurement of the movement of an organism from one place to another in a piece of technical equipment or machinery ,  or in an appliance or device designed for a particular purpose  ( especially such a movement accomplished by the action of appendages such as flagella ,  limbs ,  or wings )  originated ,  undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of free will or choice .
any measurement of the movement of an organism from one place to another into ,  out of or within a distinct and specified area of an experimental apparatus  ( especially such a movement accomplished by the action of appendages such as flagella ,  limbs ,  or wings )  originated ,  undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of free will or choice .
the total amount of time in an experiment that an organism or experimental subject spends in a distinct and specified area of an experimental apparatus .
the proportion of the total amount of time that an organism or experimental subject spends in an experimental apparatus which is spent in a distinct and specified area of that apparatus ,  expressed as a percentage .
the total number of times during an experiment that an organism or experimental subject enters into a distinct and specified area of an experimental apparatus .
the proportion of the total number of entries into any area of an experimental apparatus in which an organism or experimental subject enters a distinct and specified area of the apparatus ,  expressed as a percentage .
measurement of a localized pathological change in structure of a blood vessel due to injury or disease ;  especially one that is circumscribed and well defined .
a measurement of blood vessel diameter which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a measurement of the depth of the wall of a blood vessel which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a measurement of the depth of the wall of an artery ,  one of the large blood vessels carrying blood in a direction away from the heart to the tissues .
a measurement of the depth of the wall of an artery which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of a blood vessel ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the inner surface of the blood vessel wall .
the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of a blood vessel ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the outer surface of the blood vessel wall .
the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of an artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the inner surface of the blood vessel wall .
the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of an artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the outer surface of the blood vessel wall .
measurement of the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of an artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at either the inner surface or outer surface of the blood vessel wall ,  which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
any measurement of one of the large blood vessels carrying blood in a direction away from the heart to the tissues .
measurement of any localized pathological change in structure of an artery ,  one of the large blood vessels carrying blood in a direction away from the heart to the tissues ,  due to injury or disease ;  especially one that is circumscribed and well defined .
measurement which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation of any localized pathological change in structure of an artery due to injury or disease ;  especially one that is circumscribed and well defined .
measurement which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation of any localized pathological change in structure of a blood vessel due to injury or disease ;  especially one that is circumscribed and well defined .
a calculated measurement in which the ratio of the wall thickness  ( wt )  of a blood vessel is divided by the inner diameter  ( id )  of that vessel at that location ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  for example ,  wt / id x 100 .
ratio of the wall thickness  ( wt )  of an artery to inner diameter  ( id )  of that artery at that location ,  usually expressed as a percentage ,  i .e .
a measurement of the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of an artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the inner surface of the blood vessel wall ,  after that measurement has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
any measurement of components of the periodic tightening and loosening of the muscles of a ventricle of the heart .
the diameter across the left ventricle of the heart at the end of diastole ,  that is ,  when the heart muscle is maximally relaxed ,  and usually corresponds to its largest diameter .
the diameter across the left ventricle of the heart at the end of systole ,  that is ,  when the heart muscle is maximally contracted ,  and usually corresponds to its smallest diameter .
a measurement of the physical form or structure of the left ventricle of the heart which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement corresponding to the ratio or percent reduction in left ventricular diameter between end - diastole and end - systole .
the thickness or depth of the ventral / anterior wall of the left ventricle of the heart .
the thickness or depth of the septal wall of the heart ventricles .
a calculated measurement of left ventricular geometry and is calculated by dividing the end - diastolic diameter into 2x the posterior wall thickness ,  2x the septal wall thickness or the sum of the posterior and septal wall thicknesses .
a calculated measurement of left ventricular geometry and is calculated by dividing the end - diastolic diameter into 2x the posterior wall thickness at end - diastole ,  2x the septal wall thickness at end - diastole or the sum of the posterior and septal wall thicknesses at end - diastole .
the thickness or depth of the ventral / anterior wall of the heart .
the extent of shortening of the minor internal circumference  ( at the midpoint of the long axis )  between end - diastole and end - systole ,  divided by the time required for shortening .
any measurement to assess the morphological or physiological state of the alimentary / gastrointestinal tract ,  that is ,  the system of organs within multicellular animals that takes in food ,  digests it to extract energy and nutrients ,  and expels the remaining waste .
the thickness or depth of the ventral / anterior wall of the right ventricle of the heart .
any measurement related to the elimination of wastes and undigested food ,  as feces ,  from the rectum .
the number of times an organism passes feces or the number of pieces of fecal matter excreted within a specified period of time .
the ratio of the amount of albumin in the urine ,  or excreted into the urine in a specified period of time to the amount of low molecular weight proteins in the urine ,  or excreted into the urine in a specified period of time .
count of the number of glomeruli located in the superficial layer of the renal cortex ,  the cortex corticis .
count of the number of glomeruli located in the superficial layer of the renal cortex ,  the cortex corticis ,  and directly in contact with the surface of the kidney ,  i .e .
count of the number of glomeruli located in the superficial layer of the renal cortex ,  the cortex corticis but without any direct contact with the surface of the kidney ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount in blood of any complex chemical substance produced in one part or organ of the body that initiates or regulates the activity of an organ or a group of cells in another part of the body .
measurement of the amount in blood of an organic compound the basis of which is a characteristic arrangement of four fused cycloalkane rings ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount in blood of an amine compound containing one amino group and derived from an aromatic amino acid ,  that is produced in one part or organ of the body and initiates or regulates the activity of an organ or a group of cells in another part of the body .
measurement of the amount of epinephrine ,  a catecholamine which can act as a neurotransmitter ,  a stress hormone ,  a stimulator of the sympathetic nervous system and a vasoconstrictor ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of epinephrine ,  a catecholamine which can act as a neurotransmitter ,  a stress hormone ,  a stimulator of the sympathetic nervous system and a vasoconstrictor ,  found in a specific volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of epinephrine ,  a catecholamine which can act as a neurotransmitter ,  a stress hormone ,  a stimulator of the sympathetic nervous system and a vasoconstrictor ,  found in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of norepinephrine ,  a catecholamine which can act as a neurotransmitter ,  a stress hormone and a vasoconstrictor ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of norepinephrine ,  a catecholamine which can act as a neurotransmitter ,  a stress hormone and a vasoconstrictor ,  found in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of norepinephrine ,  a catecholamine which can act as a neurotransmitter ,  a stress hormone and a vasoconstrictor ,  found in a specific volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by an area of necrotic tissue in the brain resulting from a reduction or obstruction of the oxygen supply to the brain .
measurement of the size of an area of necrotic tissue in the brain resulting from a reduction or obstruction of the oxygen supply to the brain .
measurement of any change or difference in the diastolic blood pressure between two points or two conditions .
the relative difference in the diastolic blood pressure between two points or two conditions ,  expressed as a percentage .
measurement of any change in the difference in electrical polarization or charge between two sides of a cell membrane or cell wall over time or after a change in conditions .
calculated measurement of a difference in the pressure within the heart left ventricle at the point of maximal contraction ,  when the blood is forced from the left ventricle into the aorta ,  between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
any measurement having to do with quantitative measures of mortality ,  death ,  fatality or survival of an individual or study population .
any quantitative measurement of survival of or in an individual or study population .
any quantitative measurement of death ,  mortality or fatality in an individual or study population .
a measure of the total number of deaths occurring during a specified period of time within a study population divided by the total number of individuals in the study population .
the total number of deaths occurring during a specified period of time within a study population divided by the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
measurement of an abnormal growth of tissue in the pituitary gland resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function .
the amount of time to the first discernible appearance of tumor in the pituitary gland following the administration of a tumor causing agent .
the change is size between two points in time for a tumor found within the pituitary gland .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population displaying one or more tumors of the pituitary gland at a point in time or developing such growths within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of individuals in a study population which develop new instances of pituitary gland tumors during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display tumors of the pituitary gland compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of tumors found within the pituitary gland .
the weight of a tumor found within a pituitary gland .
the length of a transverse line moving from side to side through the center of a tumor located in the pituitary gland .
measurement of a pituitary gland lesion which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
temperature measured at the surface of or within the head of an experimental subject .
the temperature of the internal tissues and organs of the body .
the latency period spent by an organism or experimental subject in the initial occupied space before moving to a different space in an experimental apparatus .
any measurement of the movement of an experimental subject or organism during which the hind legs remain stationary while the body is stretched forward with head raised .
measurement of the number of times an experimental subject or organism displays a stretched - attend posture movement during an experimental time period .
the total number of times during an experiment that an organism or experimental subject enters into a distinct and specified area of an experimental apparatus in response to a specific external inducement ,  enticement or encouragement .
the total number of times during an experiment that an organism or experimental subject enters into a distinct and specified area of an experimental apparatus without external inducement ,  enticement or encouragement .
any measurement of a movement or quantifiable behavior which does not involve the movement of the organism from one place to another but which originated with or was undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of that organism's free will or choice .
measurement of the total amount of experiment time that an organism or experimental subject spends frozen ,  that is ,  not moving from one place or position to another ,  when such behavior originated with or was undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of that organism's free will or choice .
calculated measurement of the relative amount of experiment time that an organism or experimental subject spends frozen ,  that is ,  not moving from one place or position to another ,  when such behavior originated with or was undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of that organism's free will or choice ,  expressed as a percentage .
a count of the number of discrete intervals during which an organism or experimental subject is frozen ,  that is ,  not moving from one place or position to another ,  when such behavior originated with or was undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of that organism's free will or choice .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  at a point in time or develop eae within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological ,  involving the pancreas or any part thereof .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological ,  involving one or more pancreatic islets ,  i .e .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological ,  involving the exocrine gland portion of the pancreas ,  that is ,  the elongated ,  racemose gland which secretes digestive enzymes into the intestine .
measurement of the physical form or structure of one or more pancreatic islets ,  i .e .
any measurement of an endocrine gland ,  that is ,  a ductless gland that produces and secretes hormones directly into the blood or lymph .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through a single pancreatic islet ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by pancreatic islets in a cross - section of the pancreas .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through a single pancreatic islet ,  one of the irregular microscopic structures scattered throughout the pancreas and comprising its endocrine portion .
a measurement of the total area occupied by pancreatic islets in a cross - section of the pancreas .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through a single pancreatic islet ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by pancreatic islets in a cross - section of the pancreas which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated value in which the area of a cross - section of the pancreas which is occupied by pancreatic islets is divided by the total area of the pancreas cross - section and presented as a ratio thus normalizing it to the size of the pancreas .
the area of ,  that is ,  the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through ,  the beta cells in a pancreatic islet .
any measurement of beta cell area which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated value in which the area occupied by beta cells is divided by the total area of the pancreatic islet and presented as a ratio thus normalizing it to the size of the pancreatic islet ( s )  .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological ,  involving the liver or any part thereof .
measurement of a lesion in the liver ,  the large ,  dark - red organ located in the cranial portion of the abdomen of vertebrates ,  just behind or below the diaphragm ,  that secretes bile and is active in the formation of certain blood proteins ,  in the metabolism of carbohydrates ,  fats ,  and proteins and in the detoxification of noxious substances .
measurement of a liver lesion which is not neoplastic in origin .
measurement of a liver lesion which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
the number of tumorous lesions in or on the surface of the liver ,  or in a specified section of the liver ,  the large ,  highly vascularized organ located in the abdomen of vertebrates that secretes bile and is active in the formation of certain blood proteins ,  in the metabolism of carbohydrates ,  fats ,  and proteins and in the detoxification of noxious substances .
any measurement of the size of an individual tumorous lesion in the liver ,  or of the amount of the liver occupied by tumorous lesions .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an individual tumorous lesion in the liver ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by tumorous lesions in a cross - section of the liver .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an individual tumorous lesion in the liver .
a measurement of the total extent of the two - dimensional surface of the liver occupied by tumorous lesions ,  or a measurement of the total extent of a two - dimensional cross - section through the liver occupied by tumorous lesions .
measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an individual tumorous lesion in the liver ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by tumorous lesions in a cross - section of the liver when such a measurement has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement of the area of the liver occupied by tumorous lesions compared to the total area of the liver ,  expressed as a percentage .
a calculated value in which area of the liver occupied by tumorous lesions is divided by the total area of the liver and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the size of the liver .
the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of a tumorous lesion found on or in the liver .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by an individual liver tumorous lesion ,  or of the total three dimensional space occupied by tumorous lesions in the liver .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by an individual liver tumorous lesion .
measurement of the size of the total three dimensional space occupied by tumorous lesions in the liver .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by an individual liver tumorous lesion ,  or of the total three dimensional space occupied by tumorous lesions in the liver when such a measurement has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated value in which the volume of the liver occupied by tumorous lesions is compared to the total volume of the liver and expressed as a percentage thus normalizing it to the size of the liver .
a calculated value in which volume of the liver occupied by tumorous lesions is divided by the total volume of the liver and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the size of the liver .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the mammary gland ,  the specialized exocrine gland of the skin of female mammals ,  which secretes milk for nourishment of the young and which is included in and encased by the mammary organ .
measurement of the number of mammary gland terminal end buds in a specified sample .
the number of natural killer  ( nk )  cells in a specified volume of blood .
the number of natural killer t  ( nkt )  cells in a specified volume of blood .
the number of cd4 - positive t helper lymphocytes in a specified volume of blood .
measurement of a liver lesion resulting from a process of fibrosis ,  the proliferation of fibroblasts and fibrous tissue ,  usually in response to an injury ,  inflammation or infection .
any measurement of the size of an individual fibrotic lesion in the liver ,  or of the amount of the liver occupied by fibrotic lesions .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an individual fibrotic lesion in the liver ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by fibrotic lesions in a cross - section of the liver .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an individual fibrotic lesion in the liver .
a measurement of the total extent of the two - dimensional surface of the liver occupied by fibrotic lesions ,  or a measurement of the total extent of a two - dimensional cross - section through the liver occupied by fibrotic lesions .
any measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an individual fibrotic lesion in the liver ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by fibrotic lesions in a cross - section of the liver when such a measurement has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement in which the area of the liver occupied by fibrotic lesions is divided by the total area of the liver ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated value in which area of the liver occupied by fibrotic lesions is divided by the total area of the liver and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the size of the liver .
a calculated measurement in which the number of cells in a specified sample that stain positively in the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dutp nick end labeling  ( tunel )  assay  ( i .e .
a calculated value in which the amount of protein excreted in the urine is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
a calculated measurement in which the number of cd4 - positive t lymphocytes of the t helper 1 type in a specified sample of blood is divided by the number of cd4 - positive t lymphocytes of the t helper 2 type in the same sample and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement that deals with the process or development of a disease state ,  for example ,  the onset ,  progression or severity of the disease or its symptoms .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of a disease ,  or to the official determination of a disease as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of a disease state has caused pain or damage ,  established one or more lesions or infectious colonies ,  and / or taken over or interfered with the normal functioning of the body as a whole ,  or of one or more organs ,  tissues ,  cells or subcellular mechanisms of an organism .
any measurement related to the course of a disease ,  for example ,  a series of stages or a succession of states in the disease process .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of diabetes mellitus ,  or to the official determination of diabetes mellitus as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
a measurement of the chronological age ,  that is ,  the length of time since birth ,  of the individual when the symptoms of diabetes mellitus first appeared ,  or when an official diagnosis of diabetes mellitus was first determined .
any measurement which expresses either the total number of cases of diabetes mellitus in a population at a given point in time or the rate of occurrence of new cases of diabetes mellitus ,  that is ,  the proportion of the population which develop the condition within a period of time .
the number of new cases of diabetes mellitus appearing in a study population during a specified period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display diabetes mellitus at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation ,  of one or more apoptotic bodies ,  small sealed membrane vesicles that are produced from cells undergoing cell death by apoptosis .
any measurement related to an enzyme ,  a protein that acts as a catalyst ,  increasing the rate at which a chemical reaction occurs without itself being destroyed or altered upon completion of the reaction ,  in the liver or in a sample of liver tissue .
measurement in a specified sample of liver of the amount of ezymatic activity of ornithine decarboxylase ,  that is ,  the ability of the protein to catalyze the decarboxylation of ornithine  ( a product of the urea cycle )  to form putrescine ,  the rate - limiting and first committed step in polyamine synthesis .
measurement of the number of lymphocytes expressing a surface antigen recognised by r73 in a specified volume of whole blood .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes in a sample of blood which express a surface antigen recognised by r73 is divided by the total number of mononuclear cells in that sample ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes expressing surface cd4 antigen is divided by the number of lymphocytes expressing a surface antigen recognised by r73 ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes expressing surface cd8 antigen is divided by the number of lymphocytes expressing a surface antigen recognised by r73 ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation of the weight of the left ventricle of the heart ,  that is ,  its the heaviness or degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of a cerebral artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the inner surface of the blood vessel wall .
the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of an anterior cerebral artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the inner surface of the blood vessel wall .
the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of a middle cerebral artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the inner surface of the blood vessel wall .
the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of a posterior cerebral artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the inner surface of the blood vessel wall .
measurement of a lesion in kidney ,  he organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
measurement of a lesion in the kidney ,  he organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  which is not neoplastic in origin .
measurement of a lesion in the kidney ,  he organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes ,  which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
any measurement of lesions resulting from fibrosis ,  scarring or hyaline deposits within a kidney glomerulus ,  a tuft of capillaries situated within a bowman's capsule at the end of a renal tubule in the vertebrate kidney ,  that filters waste products from the blood and thus initiates urine formation .
a measurement of lesions resulting from fibrosis ,  scarring or hyaline deposits within one or more kidney glomeruli which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a measurement of lesions resulting from fibrosis ,  scarring or hyaline deposits within kidney glomeruli which is derived from a combination of multiple measurements and / or objective or subjective severity scores according to a specified formula or set of criteria .
the number of new cases of type 1 diabetes mellitus  ( t1dm )  appearing in a study population during a specified period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of type 2 diabetes mellitus appearing in a study population during a specified period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display type 1 diabetes mellitus  ( t1dm )  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display type 2 diabetes mellitus  ( t2dm )  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
a measurement of the chronological age ,  that is ,  the length of time since birth ,  of the individual when the symptoms of type 1 diabetes mellitus  ( t1dm )  first appeared ,  or when an official diagnosis of t1dm was first determined .
a measurement of the chronological age ,  that is ,  the length of time since birth ,  of the individual when the symptoms of type 2 diabetes mellitus  ( t2dm )  first appeared ,  or when an official diagnosis of t2dm was first determined .
measurement of the amount of total protein in the pancreas ,  the elongated ,  racemose gland containing both endocrine and exocrine elements which secretes hormones such as insulin and glucagon internally and digestive enzymes externally ,  or in a specified sample of pancreas tissue without division or fractionation of the tissue  ( for example separation of the endocrine and exocrine pancreas )  .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the amount of protein in the pancreas without division or fractionation of the tissue  ( for example separation of the endocrine and exocrine pancreas )  .
the ratio of the amount of insulin ,  the polypeptide hormone secreted by the islets of langerhans which helps regulate the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats ,  in the pancreas to the total amount of protein in the pancreas without division or fractionation of the tissue  ( for example separation of the endocrine and exocrine pancreas )  .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the physical form or structure of the small deposits of fat located within and throughout skeletal muscle .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the physical form or structure of skeletal muscles ,  the striated muscles attached to bones .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of skeletal muscles ,  the striated muscles attached to bones .
the weight of all or part of a skeletal muscle ,  one of the striated muscles attached to bones .
any measurement which deals with a disease in terms of population ,  geography or demographics .
measurement of a lesion in the pancreas ,  the elongated ,  racemose gland containing both endocrine and exocrine elements which secretes hormones such as insulin and glucagon internally and digestive enzymes externally .
measurement of a pancreas lesion which is not neoplastic in origin .
measurement of a pancreas lesion which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
measurement of a lesion involving one or more pancreatic islets ,  i .e .
measurement of a pancreatic islet lesion which is not neoplastic in origin .
measurement of a pancreatic islet lesion which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
a measurement of the extent of pancreatic islet damage  ( e .g .
the number of pancreatic islets which display lesions in a particular sample .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological of a muscle or a group of muscles .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological ,  of all or part of the skeletal system ,  the body's framework of bones which give support and shape to the body ,  protect delicate internal organs ,  provide sites of attachment for muscles to make motion possible ,  manufacture blood cells and store minerals .
a calculated value in which the area  ( i .e . ,  the extent of the two - dimensional region )  occupied by intramuscular fat in a specified sample of skeletal muscle is divided by the total area of that sample of skeletal muscle and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to muscle area .
a calculated value in which the area occupied by intramuscular fat in a specified sample of skeletal muscle is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through a single deposit of intramuscular fat or a measurement of the total area occupied by intramuscular fat in a cross - section of skeletal muscle .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through a single deposit of intramuscular fat or a measurement of the total area occupied by intramuscular fat in a cross - section of skeletal muscle ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a measurement of the amount ,  by weight ,  of the small deposits of fat located within a specified amount of skeletal muscle ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
measurement of the physical form or structure of one or more glomeruli in the kidney .
the length of a straight line passing through the center of a kidney glomerulus and connecting opposite points on its circumference .
a measurement of the volume of blood delivered to or exiting from the kidneys per unit time ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
the difference in the volume of blood delivered to or exiting from the kidneys per unit time between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
measurement of the amount of any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule found in a specified volume of whole blood .
measurement of the amount of any  of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule found in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule found in a specific volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of corticosterone ,  a corticosteroid produced in the adrenal cortex that functions in the metabolism of carbohydrates and proteins ,  found in a specific volume of blood .
the amount of corticosterone ,  a corticosteroid produced in the adrenal cortex that functions in the metabolism of carbohydrates and proteins ,  found in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of corticosterone ,  a corticosteroid produced in the adrenal cortex that functions in the metabolism of carbohydrates and proteins ,  found in a specific volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the number of kidney glomeruli with lesions resulting from fibrosis ,  scarring or hyaline deposits ,  or the number of such lesions in a specified sample .
a calculated value in which the number of glomeruli with lesions resulting from fibrosis ,  scarring or hyaline deposits is divided by the total number of glomeruli in a specified sample of kidney and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the total number of glomeruli .
any measurement involving the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type of one or more proteins  ( complex high molecular weight organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages )  or peptides  ( low molecular weight compounds composed of at least two amino acids joined by peptide linkages )  in kidney .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological of the outer part of the kidney ,  composed mainly of glomeruli and convoluted tubules .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological ,  of the renal medulla ,  the innermost part of the kidney which contains the structures of the nephrons responsible for maintaining the salt and water balance of the blood .
any measurement involving the amount ,  composition or type of protein ,  the complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in kidney medulla ,  the innermost part of the kidney which contains the structures of the nephrons responsible for maintaining the salt and water balance of the blood .
any measurement involving the amount ,  composition or type of protein ,  the complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in renal cortex ,  the outer part of the kidney ,  composed mainly of glomeruli and convoluted tubules .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type ,  of protein  ( the complex organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages )  in kidney .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation involving the amount ,  composition or type of protein in the kidney cortex ,  the outer part of the kidney ,  composed mainly of glomeruli and convoluted tubules .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation involving the amount ,  composition or type of protein in the renal medulla ,  the innermost part of the kidney which contains the structures of the nephrons responsible for maintaining the salt and water balance of the blood .
a calculated value in which the amount of trpv4 protein in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the amount of beta - actin protein in the same or a corresponding sample of kidney and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the beta - actin protein level .
a calculated value in which the amount of trpv4 protein in a specified sample of renal cortex is divided by the amount of beta - actin protein in the same or a corresponding sample of renal cortex and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the beta - actin protein level .
a calculated value in which the amount of trpv4 protein in a specified sample of renal medulla is divided by the amount of beta - actin protein in the same or a corresponding sample of renal medulla and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the beta - actin protein level .
the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of a cerebral artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the inner surface of the blood vessel wall ,  after that measurement has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of a middle cerebral artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the inner surface of the blood vessel wall ,  after that measurement has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement of the relative difference in the middle cerebral artery inner diameter between a treated state and a control state or between two points in time ,  expressed as a percentage .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional plane through the left ventricle of the heart at the end of diastole ,  that is ,  when the heart muscle is maximally relaxed ,  and usually corresponds to its largest diameter .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional plane through the left ventricle of the heart at the end of systole ,  that is ,  when the heart muscle is maximally contracted ,  and usually corresponds to its smallest diameter .
measurement of the amount of time between the beginning of life of an organism and the permanent and irreversible cessation of the vital functions of that organism .
a calculated value in which the weight of white adipose tissue ,  the thermal - insulating and energy - storing fat tissue of mammals ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percent ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
a calculated value in which the sum of the weights of the white adipose tissue associated with the epididymus and that surrounding the kidneys is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percent ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
a calculated value in which the total body weight of an organism is divided by the length of the tibia ,  the inner and larger bone of the lower leg or hindlimb ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to the length of the leg and ,  by extension ,  to the length of the body .
a calculated value in which the weight of the heart ,  the chambered ,  muscular organ that maintains the circulation of the blood ,  is divided by the length of the tibia ,  the inner and larger bone of the lower leg or hindlimb ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to the length of the leg and ,  by extension ,  to the length of the body .
a calculated value in which the total weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of both kidneys is divided by the length of the tibia ,  the inner and larger bone of the lower leg or hindlimb ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to the length of the leg and ,  by extension ,  to the length of the body .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight of the encapsulated adipose tissue surrounding the epididymis ,  the structure along the posterior body of the testis .
a calculated value in which the weight of the epididymal fat pad ,  the encapsulated adipose tissue that is attached to the epididymis ,  is divided by the length of the tibia ,  the inner and larger bone of the lower leg or hindlimb ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to the length of the leg and ,  by extension ,  to the length of the body .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display hematuria ,  that is ,  blood in the urine ,  at a point in time or develop hematuria within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of hematuria ,  that is blood in the urine ,  appearing in a study population during a specified period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display hematuria ,  that is blood in the urine ,  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of hematuria ,  that is blood in the urine ,  appearing in a study population with preexisting hydronephrosis ,  that is ,  dilation of the pelvis and calices of one or both kidneys because of the accumulation of urine resulting from obstruction to urine outflow ,  during a specified period compared to the total number of individuals in that study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population with preexisting hydronephrosis ,  that is ,  dilation of the pelvis and calices of one or both kidneys because of the accumulation of urine resulting from obstruction to urine outflow ,  which display hematuria ,  that is blood in the urine ,  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of the hydronephrosis disease state ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement of hydronephrosis severity which is derived from a combination of multiple measurements and / or objective or subjective assessments of severity ,  that is ,  the degree to which the hydronephrosis disease state causes pain or damage ,  according to a specified formula or set of criteria .
a measure of the number of tumorous lesions in or on the surface of the liver ,  or in a specified section of the liver when that number has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a measure of the number of tumorous lesions in a measured and specified unit area ,  e .g .
a calculated measurement in which the value for creatinine clearance is divided by the total body weight of the organism and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display chronic pancreatitis ,  that is ,  chronic or ongoing inflammation of the pancreas with fibrosis and calcification of the gland at a point in time or develop chronic pancreatitis  within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of chronic pancreatitis appearing in a study population during a specified period of time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display chronic pancreatitis at a specified point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement relating to the function of the pancreatic islets or their cells .
any measurement pertaining to the secretion of insulin ,  the major fuel - regulating peptide hormone formed from proinsulin in the beta cells of the pancreatic islets of langerhans ,  from the pancreatic islets .
any measurement pertaining to the secretion of insulin ,  the major fuel - regulating peptide hormone formed from proinsulin in the beta cells of the pancreatic islets of langerhans ,  from the pancreatic islets which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a measure of the frequency at which the basal levels of insulin secretion from the pancreatic islets oscillate or vary between alternate levels ,  i .e .
a measurement of the partial pressure of oxygen measured directly within the pancreatic islet .
measurement of the physical form or structure of a single or group of fat cells ,  connective tissue cells specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat ;  such cells consist of a large cytoplasmic vesicle filled with globules of triglycerides with the nucleus displaced to one side and the cytoplasm seen as a thin line around the fat vesicle .
a measurement of the average extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through an adipocyte ,  a connective tissue cell specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat .
the average length of a straight line passing through the center of an adipocyte and connecting opposite points on its circumference .
the length of a boundary line fully enclosing an adipocyte or of a line which follows the periphery of an adipocyte ,  a connective tissue cell specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat .
a measurement of the small intestine ,  the proximal portion of the intestine extending from the pylorus of the stomach to the cecum and comprising the duodenum ,  jejunum ,  and ileum .
a measurement of the large intestine ,  the distal portion of the intestine extending from its junction with the small intestine to the anus and comprising the cecum ,  colon ,  rectum ,  and anal canal .
measurement of the mineral mass per unit area of bone ,  the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts .
measurement of the amount of growth hormone ,  a polypeptide hormone which promotes body growth and fat mobilization and inhibits glucose utilization ,  in a specified volume of whole blood .
measurement of the amount of growth hormone ,  a polypeptide hormone which promotes body growth and fat mobilization and inhibits glucose utilization ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of growth hormone ,  a polypeptide hormone which promotes body growth and fat mobilization and inhibits glucose utilization ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement of the ratio between the change in mean arterial blood pressure and the concentration of sodium infused directly into the ventricle ( s )  of the brain ;  calculated as the slope of the curve of mean arterial blood pressure versus intracerebroventricular - infused sodium concentration .
a calculated measurement of the ratio between the change in heart rate and the concentration of sodium infused directly into the ventricle ( s )  of the brain ;  calculated as the slope of the curve of heart rate versus intracerebroventricular - infused sodium concentration .
any measurement of the nervous system ,  the organ system which ,  along with the endocrine system ,  correlates the adjustments and reactions of the organism to its internal and external environment via transmission of information ,  in the form of electrochemical impulses ,  throughout the body .
any measurement of the autonomic nervous system ,  the part of the nervous system that regulates involuntary action ,  as of the intestines ,  smooth muscle ,  heart ,  and glands ,  and that is divided into two physiologically and anatomically distinct ,  mutually antagonistic systems ,  the sympathetic nervous system and the parasympathetic nervous system .
any measurement of or directly related to the part of the autonomic nervous system  ( the part of the nervous system that regulates involuntary action )  that is concerned especially with preparing the body to react to situations of stress or emergency .
any assessment or quantification of the presence and / or amount of recordable electrical energy in a nerve ,  any of the cordlike structures that convey impulses between the central nervous system and one or more parts of the body ,  and that each consist of an outer connective tissue sheath surrounding a bundle of conductive fibers .
any assessment or quantification of the presence and / or amount of recordable electrical energy in a sympathetic nerve ,  a nerve of the autonomic nervous system that regulates involuntary and automatic reactions ,  especially to stress .
assessment or quantification of the presence and / or amount of recordable electrical energy in a renal sympathetic nerve ,  a nerve of the autonomic nervous system that regulates involuntary and automatic reactions ,  especially to stress ,  associated with and controlling activity of the kidneys .
a calculated measurement in which the change in the activity ,  i .e . ,  the recordable electrical energy ,  of the renal sympathetic nerves between two points in time or two conditions is compared to the concentration of a solution of sodium ,  the chemical element with atomic number 11 ,  infused directly into the ventricle ( s )  of the brain ;  calculated as the slope of the curve of renal sympathetic nerve activity versus intracerebroventricular - infused sodium concentration .
a value calculated by dividing the proportionate change in renal blood flow  ( rbf )  by the proportionate change in renal perfusion pressure  ( rpp )  ,  i .e .
any measurement of the fluid contained within the ventricles of the brain ,  the subarachnoid space ,  and the central canal of the spinal cord .
a quantification of a parameter of the chemical composition of the cerebrospinal fluid ,  the fluid contained within the ventricles of the brain ,  the subarachnoid space ,  and the central canal of the spinal cord .
a quantification of one or more mineral salts found in the cerebrospinal fluid in the form of electrically charged ions .
measurement of the amount of choride ,  the negatively charged ion of chlorine ,  found in a specified volume of cerebrospinal fluid .
the amount of cationic sodium in a specified volume of cerebrospinal fluid .
the amount of low density lipoprotein cholesterol  ( ldl - c )  in a specified volume of blood plasma where the value was derived by a mathematical process or computation rather than being measured directly .
a calculated measurement of body weight in which it is compared to the length of the organism from nose to anus ,  thus normalizing it to body length .
measurement of the amount of thyroid - stimulating hormone ,  a glycoprotein hormone secreted by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that stimulates and regulates activity of the thyroid gland ,  in a specified volume of whole blood .
measurement of the amount of thyroid - stimulating hormone ,  a glycoprotein hormone secreted by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that stimulates and regulates activity of the thyroid gland ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of thyroid - stimulating hormone ,  a glycoprotein hormone secreted by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that stimulates and regulates activity of the thyroid gland ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the adipose tissue located in a specific body region which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
any measurement of adipose tissue located in the junctional region between the abdomen and thigh .
a value which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation for the heaviness or degree to which the inguinal fat pad ,  the accumulation of encapsulated adipose tissue located in the junctional region between the abdomen and thigh ,  is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
a calculated value in which the weight of one or both of the inguinal fat pads ,  that is ,  the accumulations of encapsulated adipose tissue located in the junctional region between the abdomen and thigh ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
any measurement of a lesion in the kidney characterized by an abnormal proliferation of fibrous connective tissue .
any measurement of the physical dimensions ,  proportions ,  magnitude ,  or extent of a lesion in the kidney characterized by an abnormal proliferation of fibrous connective tissue .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through a single kidney fibrotic lesion ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by fibrotic lesions in a cross - section of the kidney .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through a single kidney fibrotic lesion ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by fibrotic lesions in a cross - section of the kidney ,  when that value has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated value in which the extent of the two - dimensional surface occupied by fibrotic lesions is divided by the total extent of the two - dimensional surface of the kidney and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to the size of the kidney .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display testis tumors at a point in time or develop testis tumors within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of individuals developing one or more testis tumors appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display one or more testis tumors at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display tumors in both testes at a point in time or develop tumors in both testes within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of individuals developing tumors in both testes appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display tumors in both testes at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display leukemia ,  any of a group of progressive ,  malignant diseases of the blood - forming organs ,  marked by distorted proliferation and development of leukocytes and their precursors in the blood and bone marrow ,  at a point in time or develop leukemia within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of leukemia ,  any of a group of progressive ,  malignant diseases of the blood - forming organs ,  marked by distorted proliferation and development of leukocytes and their precursors in the blood and bone marrow ,  appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display leukemia ,  any of a group of progressive ,  malignant diseases of the blood - forming organs ,  marked by distorted proliferation and development of leukocytes and their precursors in the blood and bone marrow ,  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
a calculated value in which the number of glomeruli with lesions resulting from fibrosis ,  scarring or hyaline deposits is divided by the total number of glomeruli in a specified sample of kidney and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the total number of glomeruli .
a calculated value in which the amount of albumin ,  the major protein of blood plasma ,  excreted in the urine is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds to one or more types of collagen ,   the fibrous protein constituent of bone ,  cartilage ,  tendon ,  and other connective tissue ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds cattle - derived type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds pig - derived type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds rat - derived type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any measurement related to immunoglobulin ,  any of several classes of proteins produced by plasma cells and lymphocytes which play essential roles in the immune system ,  for example ,  attaching to foreign substances in an effort to destroy them ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds to a specific antigen ,  a substance introduced into an organism which initiates an immune response including the production of the very antibodies which bind to it in an effort to destroy it ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds pig - derived type 2 collagen in a specified sample of serum ,  when that measurement is based on ,  or uses in the calculation ,  the antibody titer .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds type 2 collagen in a specified volume of serum ,  when that calculation is based on the antibody titer .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds to one or more types of collagen ,   the fibrous protein constituent of bone ,  cartilage ,  tendon ,  and other connective tissue ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of rat type 2 collagen autoantibody in a specified sample of serum ,  when the caluculation is based on the autoantibody titer .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds cattle - derived type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount in a specified volume of whole blood of troponin t ,  one subunit of a complex of three regulatory proteins required for skeletal and cardiac muscle contraction ;  used as an indicator for myocardial damage .
the amount of troponin t ,  one subunit of a complex of three regulatory proteins required for skeletal and cardiac muscle contraction in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of troponin t ,  one subunit of a complex of three regulatory proteins required for skeletal and cardiac muscle contraction in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of one or more thyroid hormones ,  that is ,  hormones produced by the thyroid gland that are primarily responsible for regulation of metabolism ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of thyroxine ,  the major hormone derived from the thyroid gland which regulates cellular metabolism ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of thyroxine ,  the major hormone derived from the thyroid gland which regulates cellular metabolism ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of thyroxine ,  the major hormone derived from the thyroid gland which regulates cellular metabolism ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of triiodothyronine ,  a hormone synthesized and secreted by the thyroid which constitutes the main thyroid hormone used by the tissues ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of triiodothyronine ,  a hormone synthesized and secreted by the thyroid which constitutes the main thyroid hormone used by the tissues ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of triiodothyronine ,  a hormone synthesized and secreted by the thyroid which constitutes the main thyroid hormone used by the tissues ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of glucagon ,  a peptide secreted by pancreatic alpha cells which plays an important role in regulation of blood glucose concentration ,  ketone metabolism ,  and other biochemical and physiological processes ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of glucagon ,  a peptide secreted by pancreatic alpha cells which plays an important role in regulation of blood glucose concentration ,  ketone metabolism ,  and other biochemical and physiological processes ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of glucagon ,  a peptide secreted by pancreatic alpha cells which plays an important role in regulation of blood glucose concentration ,  ketone metabolism ,  and other biochemical and physiological processes ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of insulin - like growth factor 1 ,  a basic peptide with growth - regulating ,  insulin - like ,  and mitogenic activities which is largely dependent on growth hormone ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of insulin - like growth factor 1 ,  a basic peptide with growth - regulating ,  insulin - like ,  and mitogenic activities which is largely dependent on growth hormone ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of insulin - like growth factor 1 ,  a basic peptide with growth - regulating ,  insulin - like ,  and mitogenic activities which is largely dependent on growth hormone ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of insulin - like growth factor 1 ,  a neutral peptide with growth - regulating ,  insulin - like ,  and mitogenic activities which is largely dependent on somatotropin ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of insulin - like growth factor 1 ,  a neutral peptide with growth - regulating ,  insulin - like ,  and mitogenic activities which is largely dependent on somatotropin ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of insulin - like growth factor 1 ,  a neutral peptide with growth - regulating ,  insulin - like ,  and mitogenic activities which is largely dependent on somatotropin ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of lactate ,  a salt of lactic acid which is produced in the body by anaerobic metabolism of carbohydrate ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of lactate ,  a salt of lactic acid which is produced in the body by anaerobic metabolism of carbohydrate ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of lactate ,  a salt of lactic acid which is produced in the body by anaerobic metabolism of carbohydrate ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the total amount of milk produced by a lactating mammal over a specific period of time .
the average amount of milk produced by a lactating mammal per day .
the total amount of milk produced by a lactating mammal over a 305 - day lactation period .
any measurement of the urea - associated nitrogen in milk .
the amount in milk of the portion of nitrogen that derives from its content of urea .
the total amount of milk urea nitrogen ,  the portion of nitrogen derived from urea ,  produced over a specific period of time .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of feed consumed over a specific period of time is divided by body weight gain for the same period .
amount of feed consumed ,  excluding water content ,  over a specific period of time .
average weight or heaviness of food  ( i .e .
the actual weight of feed consumed minus the expected feed intake .
the combined weight of both ventricles of the heart ,  that is ,  their heaviness or the degree to which they are drawn toward the earth by gravity .
a measurement of the combined weight of both heart ventricles that has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated value in which the combined weight of both the left and right ventricles ,  the lower chambers of the heart that pump blood away from the heart either to the lungs to be oxygenated or ,  once oxygenated ,  to the rest of the body ,  is presented as percentage of the total weight of the body thus normalizing it to body weight .
the number of bones of the portion of the spinal column between the thoracic and sacral vertebrae .
the number of the elongated ,  curved bones forming the main portion of the bony wall of the chest .
any measurement of a gas or gases dissolved in the blood ,  including oxygen ,  nitrogen carbon dioxide and / or hydrogen .
the concentration of carbon dioxide  ( the product of the combustion of carbon with an excess of oxygen )  in the blood .
the amount of oxygen bound to hemoglobin in the blood expressed as a percentage of the maximal binding capacity .
a measure of the deviation from normal blood acid - base balance expressed as the amount of acid required to titrate a sample of whole arterial blood to its normal ph .
the heaviness ,  that is ,  the degree to which a physical mass is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  of any of the male reproductive organs  ( any organ which is part of the complex of male gonads ,  associated ducts ,  and external genitalia concerned with sexual reproduction )  .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by any male reproductive organ .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by one or both testes ,  the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop .
the volume of a single testis ,  one of the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop .
the combined volume of both testes ,  the paired egg - shaped glands normally situated in the scrotum ,  in which the spermatozoa develop .
the vertical measurement of the body of a four - legged animal ,  from the ground to the high part of the back between the shoulder blades .
the vertical measurement of the body of a four - legged animal ,  from the ground to the point of the hip .
the relative heaviness of an ovum in combination with its nutrient stores and protective outer coverings ,  of a bird .
any measurement of the portion of the egg of a bird that consists of protein and fat from which the early embryo gets its main nourishment .
any measurement of the outermost protective covering of a bird's egg .
any measurement of the nutritive and protective gelatinous substance  ( egg white )  surrounding the yolk of a bird's egg .
the relative heaviness of the rinsed and dried outermost protective covering of a bird's egg .
the weight of the rinsed and dried eggshell ,  expressed as a percentage of total egg weight .
the visually perceived hue of the outermost protective covering of a bird's egg .
the force required to fracture the hard outermost covering of a bird's egg .
the thickness ,  that is ,  the length or extent of the dimension between the inner and outer surfaces of an eggshell ,  the outermost protective covering of a bird's egg .
the relative heaviness of the nutritive and protective gelatinous substance  ( egg white )  surrounding the yolk of a bird's egg .
the height of the inner thick albumen  ( egg white )  when a bird's egg is broken onto a flat surface .
the weight of the nutritive and protective gelatinous substance  ( egg white )  surrounding the yolk of a bird's egg ,  expressed as a percentage of total egg weight .
the length from end to end ,  that is ,  the linear extent along the longest axis ,  of a bird's egg ,  the ovum in combination with its nutrient stores and protective outer coverings .
the diameter across the short axis of a bird's egg ,  the ovum in combination with its protective outer coverings .
the ratio of the mass of a bird's egg to the mass of an equal volume of water at a specified temperature .
measurement of the average size of the three dimensional space occupied by a blood platelet ,  a minute ,  irregularly shaped ,  disklike ,  non - nucleated cytoplasmic body found in blood that functions to promote blood clotting .
the proportion of blood volume that is occupied by platelets ,  expressed as a percentage .
measure of variation in platelet size .
number of live sperm in a sample divided by the total number of sperm  in that sample ,  expressed as a percentage .
number of sperm which display visible defects divided by the total number of sperm in a sample ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement of the viscous secretion of the male reproductive organs ,  typically containing spermatazoa and secretions of the testes ,  seminal vesicles ,  prostate ,  and bulbourethral glands .
volume of semen ,  the viscous secretion of the male reproductive organs ,  typically containing spermatazoa and secretions of the testes ,  seminal vesicles ,  prostate ,  and bulbourethral glands ,  in a single ejaculate .
measurement of the acidity ,  expressed as the negative logarithm of hydrogen ion concentration ,  of a sample of semen ,  the viscous secretion of the male reproductive organs ,  typically containing spermatazoa and secretions of the testes ,  seminal vesicles ,  prostate ,  and bulbourethral glands .
any measurement of a single red blood cell ,  one of the hemoglobin - containing blood cells that transport oxygen and carbon dioxide to and from the tissues ,  or of all of the red blood cells in a sample of blood .
the level of activity of any of the sodium - potassium adenosine triphosphatases ,  enzymes which catalyze the active ,  atp - dependent transport of sodium and potassium ions across cell membranes ,  in a specified volume of red blood cells .
measurement of the amount of glucagon in a specified volume of blood ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of insulin in a sample of blood is divided by the amount of glucagon in that sample and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to the glucagon level .
a measurement of one or more thyroid hormones ,  the hormones produced by the thyroid gland that are primarily responsible for regulation of metabolism ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of triiodothyronine in a specified volume of blood is divided by the amount of thyroxine in the same sample and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to thyroxine level .
a measurement of the amount of lipoprotein ( s )  in blood which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a measurement of the amount of lipoprotein ( s )  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a measurement of the amount of lipoprotein ( s )  in plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of hdl ,  small - particle lipoproteins that promote transport of cholesterol from extrahepatic tissue to the liver for excretion in the bile ,  in a specified volume of serum is divided by the amount  of ldl ,  relatively large - particle lipoproteins that transport cholesterol to extrahepatic tissue ,  in the same sample ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of one or more horns of an animal .
any measurement of the tough ,  supple cutaneous membrane that covers the surface of the body .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the tough ,  supple cutaneous membrane that covers the surface of the body .
length from base to tip of the pointed projections ,  often found in pairs ,  on the head of an animal .
distance measured around the base of the pointed projections ,  often found in pairs ,  on the head of an animal .
depth of subcutaneous adipose tissue in the posterior trunk area at the location of the last rib .
depth of subcutaneous adipose tissue in the posterior trunk area at the location of the last lumbar vertebra .
any measurement of the direct progeny of a parent or parents .
the number of direct progeny born ,  either per individual gestation or the total over a specified period of time .
number of offspring that have died before the birth process is completed .
number of direct progeny that survive to the age of weaning ,  that is ,  the discontinuation of the offspring's dependence on its mother's milk .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the tibia ,  the major bone in the lower part of the hindlimb ,  which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the humerus ,  the bone in the upper portion of the forelimb  that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through the bone in the upper portion of the forelimb that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below .
distance across the humerus ,  the bone in the upper portion of the forelimb that articulates with the scapula above and the radius and ulna below ,  measured midway between the two ends of the bone .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
the amount in milk fat of all organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons in which the carbon chain has two or more double or triple carbon - carbon bonds ,  expressed as a percentage of the total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of all organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons in which the carbon chain has only one double or triple carbon - carbon bond ,  expressed as a percentage of the total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of all organic ,  monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons in which the carbon chain contains only single carbon - carbon bonds ,  expressed as a percentage of the total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with a seventeen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 10 ,  expressed as a percentage of the total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of an unsaturated fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and a cis double bond at c - 11 ,  expressed as a percentage of the total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of an unsaturated ,  omega - 3 fatty acid with an eighteen - carbon backbone and three double bonds ,  expressed as a percentage of the total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of an unsaturated ,  omega - 6 fatty acid with a twenty - carbon backbone and cis double bonds at c - 5 ,  c - 8 ,  c11 ,  and c - 14 ,  expressed as a percentage of the total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a seventeen - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of the total fatty acid amount .
the amount in milk fat of a saturated fatty acid with a four - carbon backbone ,  expressed as a percentage of the total fatty acid amount .
a calculated measurement in which the amount in milk fat of unsaturated ,  omega - 6 fatty acids is divided by the amount of unsaturated ,  omega - 3 fatty acids and expressed as a percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the amount in milk fat of the 16 carbon monounsaturated fatty acid palmitoleic acid is divided by the amount of the 16 carbon saturated fatty acid palmitic acid and expressed as a percentage .
the weight or the measure of the heaviness of the longissimus muscle of the back .
the weight or the measure of the heaviness of the of the semitendinosus muscle ,  one of three posterior femoral muscles of the thigh which functions to flex the leg ,  to rotate it medially after flexion ,  and to extend the thigh .
the weight or the measure of the heaviness of the semimembranosus muscle ,  one of three posterior femoral muscles .
the weight or the measure of the heaviness of one of the posterior femoral muscles whose long head has origin from the tuberosity of the ischium and whose short head has origin from the lower half of the lateral lip of the linea aspera ,  with insertion into the head of the fibula ,  whose action flexes the knee and rotates the leg laterally .
the weight or the measure of the heaviness of the leg muscle with origin in the ilium and insertion to the surface of the greater trochanter ,  whose action abducts and rotates the thigh .
a calculated measurement of the absolute ,  relative or proportional decrease in total body weight of an individual over time .
a calculated measurement in which the largest weight loss recorded during an experiment is divided by the body weight under basal conditions and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display relapsing - remitting experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( r - eae )  at a point in time or develop r - eae within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of relapsing - remitting experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( r - eae )  appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display relapsing - remitting experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( r - eae )  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  ,  or to the official determination of a disease as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  of eae .
a measurement of the linear equivalent of the extent of forward progress attained while running on a treadmill ,  a piece of equipment consisting of a continuously moving belt which allows the action of walking or running without the entire body moving forward .
measurement of the greatest reached or recorded linear equivalent of the extent of forward progress attained while running on a treadmill ,  a piece of equipment consisting of a continuously moving belt which allows the action of walking or running without the entire body moving forward .
the amount of ethanol ,  a colorless volatile flammable liquid ch3ch2oh that is the intoxicating agent in liquors ,  consumed per unit time .
any measurement of the cavity or channel within an artery ,  one of the large blood vessels carrying blood in a direction away from the heart to the tissues .
a measurement of the two - dimensional extent of the enclosed cavity or channel in a cross - section of an artery ,  one of the large blood vessels carrying blood in a direction away from the heart to the tissues .
any measurement of the fibrous and muscular structure of one of the large blood vessels carrying blood in a direction away from the heart to the tissues .
any measurement of the tunica media ,  or middle coat ,  of the wall of an artery ,  one of the large blood vessels carrying blood in a direction away from the heart to the tissues .
a direct measurement of two dimensional extent of the tunica media ,  the middle coat of the arterial wall ,  in a cross - section of an artery ,  one of the large blood vessels carrying blood in a direction away from the heart to the tissues .
a calculated measurement of the average width of the tunica media ,  the middle coat of the arterial wall .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through a single hyperplastic lesion of the tunica intima ,  that is ,  the inner coat of the arterial wall ,  or a measurement of the total area occupied by hyperplastic lesions of the tunica intima in a cross - section of an artery ,  one of the large blood vessels carrying blood in a direction away from the heart to the tissues .
any measurement of one or more hyperplastic lesions of the arterial tunica intima which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process .
a calculated measurement in which the area of the arterial tunica intima occupied by one or more hyperplastic lesions is divided by the total cross - sectional area of the artery wall and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the area of the arterial lumen remaining when the luminal space is restricted by a pathological process ,  e .g .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis disease state ,  i .e .
a rating ,  usually expressed numerically and based on the degree to which certain qualities or conditions are present ,  of the degree to which the presentation of the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis disease state ,  i .e .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process of a liver lesion which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
a calculated value in which the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen - positive cells is divided by the total number of liver tumorous lesion cells and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a disease - producing stimulus to the observation of symptoms of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  ,  an animal model of brain inflammation in which inflammation is induced through immunization of the animal with central nervous system antigens or by the passive transfer of autoreactive t cells .
any measurement related to the course of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  ,  an animal model of brain inflammation in which inflammation is induced through immunization of the animal with central nervous system antigens or by the passive transfer of autoreactive t cells ,  for example ,  a series of stages or a succession of states in the disease process or the duration of the disease state .
measurement of the length of time between onset of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  ,  an animal model of brain inflammation in which inflammation is induced through immunization of the animal with central nervous system antigens or by the passive transfer of autoreactive t cells ,  and either the point at which the measurement is taken ,  the resolution of symptoms or the death of the organism .
the weight after desiccation of both kidneys ,  the paired organs which function to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
the weight after desiccation of a single kidney ,  one of the paired organs which function to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
any measurement of fluid ,  cells ,  or other substances that have been slowly exuded ,  or discharged ,  from tissues ,  cells or blood vessels and deposited  within tissues or on tissue surfaces .
any measurement of fluid ,  cells and / or other substances that have been slowly exuded ,  or discharged ,  from tissues ,  cells or blood vessels and deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  a usually localized ,  protective reaction of tissue to irritation ,  injury or infection ,  characterized by pain ,  redness ,  swelling and sometimes loss of function .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by fluid ,  cells and / or other substances that have been slowly exuded ,  or discharged ,  from tissues ,  cells or blood vessels and deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  a usually localized ,  protective reaction of tissue to irritation ,  injury or infection ,  characterized by pain ,  redness ,  swelling and sometimes loss of function .
measurement of the number of cells in a specified volume of fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  a usually localized ,  protective reaction of tissue to irritation ,  injury or infection ,  characterized by pain ,  redness ,  swelling and sometimes loss of function .
the number of neutrophils in a specified volume of inflammatory exudate ,  a neutrophil is a granular leukocyte having a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing very fine granules ,  and which is readily stainable with neutral dyes .
the number of mononuclear cells ,  white blood cells including lymphocytes and monocytes with a single round or oval nucleus ,  in a specified volume of fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  a usually localized ,  protective reaction of tissue to irritation ,  injury or infection ,  characterized by pain ,  redness ,  swelling and sometimes loss of function .
any measurement of protein ,  a complex organic compound containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages ,  in the fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  a usually localized ,  protective reaction of tissue to irritation ,  injury or infection ,  characterized by pain ,  redness ,  swelling and sometimes loss of function .
measurement of the complete or entire amount of protein in a specified volume of fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  a usually localized ,  protective reaction of tissue to irritation ,  injury or infection ,  characterized by pain ,  redness ,  swelling and sometimes loss of function .
measurement of the amount of tumor necrosis factor  ( tnf )  ,  a multifunctional proinflammatory cytokine that belongs to the protein superfamily of the same name ,  in a specified volume of fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  a usually localized ,  protective reaction of tissue to irritation ,  injury or infection ,  characterized by pain ,  redness ,  swelling and sometimes loss of function .
measurement of the amount of nitric oxide  ( no )  ,  the free radical oxide of nitrogen which functions in various physiological capacities including as a vasodilator ,  signaling molecule ,  neurotransmitter and microbicide ,  in a specified volume of fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  a usually localized ,  protective reaction of tissue to irritation ,  injury or infection ,  characterized by pain ,  redness ,  swelling and sometimes loss of function .
measurement of the amount of one or more eicosanoids ,  physiologically active molecules derived by oxidation of twenty - carbon essential fatty acids such as arachidonic acid ,  in a specified volume of fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  a usually localized ,  protective reaction of tissue to irritation ,  injury or infection ,  characterized by pain ,  redness ,  swelling and sometimes loss of function .
measurement of the amount of leukotriene b4 ,  a major metabolite in neutrophils which stimulates degranulation ,  formation of oxygen - centered free radicals ,  and arachidonic acid and lysosome release ,  and serves as a potent chemoattractant ,  in a specified volume of fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation .
measurement of the amount of lipoxin a4 ,  a arachidonic acid - derived nonclassic eicosanoid which participates in the resolution of inflammation ,  in a specified volume of fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process ,  of the amount of one or more eicosanoids ,  physiologically active molecules derived by oxidation of twenty - carbon essential fatty acids such as arachidonic acid ,  in a specified volume of fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of leukotriene b4 in a specified volume of exudate ,  a fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  is divided by the amount of lipoxin a4 in that exudate and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of the movement of an organism from one place to another along a plane parallel to the plane of the horizon in a piece of technical equipment or machinery ,  or in an appliance or device designed for a particular purpose  ( especially such a movement accomplished by the action of appendages such as flagella ,  limbs ,  or wings )  originated ,  undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of free will or choice .
measurement of the linear equivalent of the extent of forward progress attained via the movement of an individual along a plane parallel to the plane of the horizon in a piece of technical equipment or machinery ,  or in an appliance or device designed for a particular purpose originated ,  undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of free will or choice .
measurement of the maximum ,  that is ,  the maximally stimulated ,  amount of radioactively - labeled glucose -  - the monosaccharide sugar which is the principal circulating sugar in the blood and the major energy source of the body ,  to which one or more atoms that give off radiation as the result of the disintegration of their nuclei have been covalently attached -  - that can be transported into a fat cell .
measurement of the unstimulated ,  baseline or lowest possible amount of radioactively - labeled glucose -  - the monosaccharide sugar which is the principal circulating sugar in the blood and the major energy source of the body ,  to which one or more atoms that give off radiation as the result of the disintegration of their nuclei have been covalently attached -  - transported into a fat cell .
the difference ,  reported per unit volume ,  in the amount of free or non - esterified fatty acid released / secreted from a fat cell between two conditions ,  for example between the basal or baseline state and a stimulated state ,  such as occurs with administration of a hormone which stimulates lipolysis .
the difference ,  reported per cell ,  in the amount of free or non - esterified fatty acid released / secreted from a fat cell between two conditions ,  for example between the basal or baseline state and a stimulated state ,  such as occurs with administration of a hormone which stimulates lipolysis .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of arthritis ,  or to the official determination of arthritis as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of experimental arthritis ,  or to the official determination of experimental arthritis as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a disease - producing stimulus to the observation of symptoms of experimental arthritis ,  a disease characterized by inflammation of one or more joints ,  the sites of junction or union between bones ,  especially those that allow motion of the bones ,  in which the condition is a result of the artificial induction of joint inflammation .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display arthritis at a point in time or develop arthritis within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display experimental arthritis at a point in time or develop experimental arthritis within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of experimental arthritis appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display experimental arthritis at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display chronic experimental arthritis at a point in time or develop chronic experimental arthritis within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of chronic experimental arthritis appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display chronic experimental arthritis at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of the arthritis disease state ,  i .e .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of the experimental arthritis disease state ,  i .e .
measurement of the number of paws per animal displaying inflammation in an experimental model of arthritis ,  that is ,  in which the condition is a result of the artificial induction of joint inflammation .
measurement in a specified sample of liver of the number of lesions which are or have the potential to become tumors ,  that is ,  neoplasms or new growths of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive ,  but which display a remodeling phenotype ,  that is ,  a progressive decrease in biochemical marker expression and growth rate ,  and finally complete regression .
measurement in a specified sample of liver of the number of lesions which are or have the potential to become tumors ,  that is ,  neoplasms or new growths of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive ,  without any indication of a remodeling phenotype ,  that is ,  without a decrease in biochemical marker expression or growth rate ,  and without signs of regression .
a calculated value in which the volume of liver occupied by lesions which are or have the potential to become tumors ,  that is ,  neoplasms or new growths of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive ,  but which display a remodeling phenotype ,  that is ,  a progressive decrease in biochemical marker expression and growth rate ,  and finally complete regression ,  is divided by the total volume of the liver and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated value in which the volume of liver occupied by lesions which are or have the potential to become tumors ,  that is ,  neoplasms or new growths of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive ,  without any indication of a remodeling phenotype ,  that is ,  without a decrease in biochemical marker expression or growth rate ,  and without signs of regression ,  is divided by the total volume of the liver and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the amount of the acute - phase reactant orosomucoid 1  ( orm1 ;  alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein )  ,  a member of the lipocalin protein family which is upregulated during inflammation ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of the acute - phase reactant orosomucoid 1  ( orm1 ;  alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein )  ,  a member of the lipocalin protein family which is upregulated during inflammation ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of the acute - phase reactant orosomucoid 1  ( orm1 ;  alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein )  ,  a member of the lipocalin protein family which is upregulated during inflammation ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the liver ,  the large ,  dark - red organ located in the cranial portion of the abdomen of vertebrates ,  just behind or below the diaphragm ,  the functions of which include storage and filtration of blood ;  secretion of bile ;  detoxification of noxious substances ;  conversion of sugars into glycogen ;  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ;  and synthesis of serum proteins .
measurement of the physical dimensions ,  proportions ,  magnitude ,  or extent of the liver ,  the large abdominal organ / gland which functions in the storage and filtration of blood ,  secretion of bile ,  detoxification of noxious substances ,  synthesis and storage of glycogen ,  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ,  and synthesis of serum proteins .
a calculated measurement in which the number of tumorous lesions in the liver is divided by the total volume of that liver and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the amount of alpha - fetoprotein ,  a highly abundant plasma protein produced by the yolk sac ,  liver and gastrointestinal tract during fetal life and by certain neoplasms in the adult ,  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of alpha - fetoprotein ,  a highly abundant plasma protein produced by the yolk sac ,  liver and gastrointestinal tract during fetal life and by certain neoplasms in the adult ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of alpha - fetoprotein ,  a highly abundant plasma protein produced by the yolk sac ,  liver and gastrointestinal tract during fetal life and by certain neoplasms in the adult ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any measurement of the great artery arising from the left ventricle from which the systemic arterial system proceeds .
any quantification of the physical form or structure of the great artery arising from the left ventricle from which the systemic arterial system proceeds .
the speed at which the blood flows through the circulatory system or through a specific segment of a vein or artery ,  expressed as distance per unit of time .
the speed at which the blood flows through an artery ,  expressed as distance per unit of time .
the speed at which the blood flows through the aorta ,  the great artery arising from the left ventricle from which the systemic arterial system proceeds ,  expressed as distance per unit of time .
any measurement of the movement of blood through the aorta ,  the great artery arising from the left ventricle from which the systemic arterial system proceeds .
the volume of blood flowing through the aorta ,  the great artery arising from the left ventricle from which the systemic arterial system proceeds ,  per unit of time .
the maximum speed at which the blood flows through the aorta during the cardiac cycle ,  expressed as distance per unit of time .
the length of time in the cardiac cycle between the closing of the aortic and pulmonic / pulmonary semilunar valves and opening of the atrioventricular  ( av )  valves marking the beginning of ventricular filling .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the left upper chamber of the heart that receives blood from the veins and forces it into the left ventricle .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the right upper chamber of the heart that receives blood from the veins and forces it into the right ventricle .
the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of the left atrium of the heart at the end of systole ,  that is ,  when the left ventricle is maximally contracted ,  and usually corresponds to the left atrium's largest diameter .
the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of the left atrium of the heart at the end of diastole ,  that is ,  when the left ventricle is maximally dilated ,  and usually corresponds to the left atrium's smallest diameter .
a measurement of the physical form or structure of the left atrium ,  the left upper chamber of the heart that receives blood from the veins and forces it into the left ventricle ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement corresponding to the ratio or percent reduction in left atrial diameter between end - systole and end - diastole .
any measurement of the ease with which a joint ,  that is ,  an articulation where two bones meet ,  or series of joints is able to move before being restricted by the surrounding structures ,  such as ligaments ,  tendons ,  muscles ,  etc .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population with pre - existing experimental arthritis that display ankylosis ,  the immobility and consolidation of a joint ,  at a point in time or develop ankylosis within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in that arthritic study population .
a calculated measurement in which the number of experimental subjects with pre - existing experimentally induced arthritis that develop ankylosis ,  the immobility and consolidation of a joint ,  is divided by the total number of experimental subjects with arthritis and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the latency period following an external stimulus spent by an organism or experimental subject in the initial occupied space before moving to a different space in an experimental apparatus .
measurement of the linear equivalent of the extent of forward progress attained via the movement of an individual during a specified period of time into ,  out of or within a distinct and specified area of an experimental apparatus when such movement originated and / or was undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of free will or choice .
measurement of the heaviness of a posterior appendage such as a leg .
measurement of the number of white blood cells ,  including lymphocytes and monocytes ,  with a single round or oval nucleus in a specified volume of blood .
measurement of the physical form or structure of all or part of the complex network of capillaries ,  thin vessels ,  valves ,  ducts ,  nodes ,  and organs that helps protect and maintain the internal fluid environment of the entire body by producing ,  filtering ,  and conveying lymph and producing various blood cells .
measurement of the physical form or structure of one or more of the lymph nodes ,  the small ,  oval or round bodies ,  located along the lymphatic vessels ,  that supply lymphocytes to the bloodstream and remove bacteria and foreign particles from the lymph .
measurement of the heaviness of any of the small ,  oval or round bodies ,  located along the lymphatic vessels ,  that supply lymphocytes to the bloodstream and remove bacteria and foreign particles from the lymph .
measurement of the heaviness of one or more lymph nodes ,  any of the small oval or round bodies ,  located along the lymphatic vessels ,  that supply lymphocytes to the bloodstream and remove bacteria and foreign particles from the lymph ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation .
measurement of the heaviness of one or more lymph nodes ,  any of the small oval or round bodies ,  located along the lymphatic vessels ,  that supply lymphocytes to the bloodstream and remove bacteria and foreign particles from the lymph ,  after desiccation .
measurement of the heaviness of one or more of the lymph nodes located in the lower lateral region of the abdomen on either side of the pubic region ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of inflammation of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  middle coat of the eye ,  comprising the choroid ,  ciliary body ,  and iris ,  causes pain or damage .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of inflammation of the uvea -  - the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  middle coat of the eye ,  comprising the choroid ,  ciliary body ,  and iris -  - resulting from experimental or artificial stimulation of an immune response by the body against its own tissue ,  causes pain or damage .
a measurement of experimental autoimmune uveitis  ( eau )  severity which is derived from a combination of multiple measurements and / or objective or subjective severity scores according to a specified formula or set of criteria .
any measurement of an inorganic element or compound containing a metal ,  nonmetal ,  radical ,  or phosphate that is needed for proper body function and maintenance of health ,  in liver ,  the large ,  dark - red organ located in the cranial portion of the abdomen of vertebrates ,  just behind or below the diaphragm ,  the functions of which include storage and filtration of blood ;  secretion of bile ;  detoxification of noxious substances ;  conversion of sugars into glycogen ;  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ;  and synthesis of serum proteins .
any measurement of copper ,  an essential dietary trace element ,  atomic number 29 ,  involved in the formation of bone and blood as a necessary component of several enzymes ,  in liver ,  the large ,  dark - red organ located in the cranial portion of the abdomen of vertebrates ,  just behind or below the diaphragm ,  the functions of which include storage and filtration of blood ;  secretion of bile ;  detoxification of noxious substances ;  conversion of sugars into glycogen ;  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ;  and synthesis of serum proteins .
measurement of the total weight or heaviness of the copper ,  an essential dietary trace element ,  atomic number 29 ,  involved in the formation of bone and blood as a necessary component of several enzymes ,  in a whole liver .
measurement of the weight or heaviness of the copper ,  an essential dietary trace element ,  atomic number 29 ,  involved in the formation of bone and blood as a necessary component of several enzymes ,  in a specified sample of liver .
a measurement of the weight or heaviness of the copper in a specified sample of liver ,  when that measurement has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of copper in a specified sample of liver is divided by the weight of that liver sample and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of copper in a specified sample of liver is divided by the wet weight of that liver sample ,  that is ,  the weight of the sample after removal from the body but without dessication ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of copper in a specified sample of liver is divided by the dry weight of that liver sample ,  that is ,  the weight of the sample after dessication ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of copper in a specified sample of liver is divided by the total weight of the body of the organism and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to the size of the organism .
the number of equilateral right - angled grid elements measuring 20 centimeters on a side traversed by an experimental subject into ,  out of or within a distinct and specified area of an experimental apparatus  ( especially such a movement accomplished by the action of appendages such as flagella ,  limbs ,  or wings )  originated ,  undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of free will or choice .
any measurement of a movement in which a quadrupedal subject rises up on its back legs .
a value or quantity determined by count of how many times a quadrupedal subject rises up on its back legs .
measurement of the number of times an experimental subject broke or interrupted a beam of light while moving into ,  out of or within a distinct and specified area of an experimental apparatus  ( especially such a movement accomplished by the action of appendages such as flagella ,  limbs ,  or wings )  originated ,  undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of free will or choice .
any measurement of a movement which is not subject to control of the volition ,  that is ,  which occurs without conscious control .
any measurement of the psychophysiological phenomena such as involuntary motor and autonomic reactions ,  evidenced by an individual in reaction to a sudden ,  unexpected and usually loud noise .
measurement of the magnitude of the involuntary psychophysiological motor response of an organism to a sudden ,  unexpected and usually loud noise .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display experimental autoimmune neuritis  ( ean )  ,  inflammation of peripheral nerves caused by an anti - self immune reaction experimentally or artificially triggered by introduction of peripheral nerve tissue or protein components in adjuvant ,  at a point in time or develop ean within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of experimental autoimmune neuritis  ( ean )  ,  inflammation of peripheral nerves caused by an anti - self immune reaction experimentally or artificially triggered by introduction of peripheral nerve tissue or protein components in adjuvant ,  appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display experimental autoimmune neuritis  ( ean )  ,  inflammation of peripheral nerves caused by an anti - self immune reaction experimentally or artificially triggered by introduction of peripheral nerve tissue or protein components in adjuvant ,  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of experimental autoimmune neuritis  ( ean )  ,  inflammation of peripheral nerves caused by an anti - self immune reaction experimentally or artificially triggered by introduction of peripheral nerve tissue or protein components in adjuvant ,  or to the official determination of ean as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
a measurement of the chronological age ,  that is ,  the length of time since birth ,  of the individual when the symptoms of experimental autoimmune neuritis  ( ean )  ,  inflammation of peripheral nerves caused by an anti - self immune reaction experimentally or artificially triggered by introduction of peripheral nerve tissue or protein components in adjuvant ,  first appeared .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a disease - producing stimulus to the observation of symptoms of experimental autoimmune neuritis  ( ean )  ,  inflammation of peripheral nerves caused by an anti - self immune reaction experimentally or artificially triggered by introduction of peripheral nerve tissue or protein components in adjuvant .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of the experimental autoimmune neuritis  ( ean )  disease state ,  i .e .
a measurement of the degree to which the presentation of the experimental autoimmune neuritis  ( ean )  disease state ,  i .e .
any measurement related to one or more globulins ,  a class of proteins defined as being insoluble in water but soluble in a saline solution which includes carrier proteins ,  acute phase reactants ,  coagulation factors ,  complement components ,  and immunoglobulins ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any measurement related to one or more globulins ,  a class of proteins defined as being insoluble in water but soluble in a saline solution which includes carrier proteins ,  acute phase reactants ,  coagulation factors ,  complement components ,  and immunoglobulins ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any measurement related to immunoglobulins ,  any of several classes of proteins produced by plasma cells and lymphocytes which play essential roles in the immune system ,  for example ,  attaching to foreign substances in an effort to destroy them ,  in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
any measurement related to immunoglobulin molecule ( s )  with an amino acid sequence that binds with escherichia coli ,  a gram negative rod - shaped bacterium ,  in plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  a molecule composed of the sugar deoxyribose ,  phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to double - stranded deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  a molecule composed of two anti - parallel ,  hydrogen - bonded ,  polymeric strands of nucleic acids in which the sugar is deoxyribose and which is also composed of phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to single - stranded deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  a single polymeric strand of nucleic acids in which the sugar is deoxyribose and which is also composed of phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to single - stranded deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  a single polymeric strand of nucleic acids in which the sugar is deoxyribose and which is also composed of phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  in plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to double - stranded deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  a molecule composed of two anti - parallel ,  hydrogen - bonded ,  polymeric strands of nucleic acids in which the sugar is deoxyribose and which is also composed of phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  in plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  a molecule composed of the sugar deoxyribose ,  phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  in plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that specifically binds to laminin ,  a large polypeptide glycoprotein component of basement membranes ,  in a specific volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that specifically binds to laminin ,  a large polypeptide glycoprotein component of basement membranes ,  in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the total amount of immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body which is concentrated in the lungs ,  skin ,  and mucous membranes and ,  as a primary defense against environmental antigens ,  can trigger anaphylactic hypersensitivity ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the total amount of immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body which is concentrated in the lungs ,  skin ,  and mucous membranes and ,  as a primary defense against environmental antigens ,  can trigger anaphylactic hypersensitivity ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a measurement of the movement of blood through one or more vessels or organs in the body which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
any measurement of the thick contractile middle layer of uniquely constructed and arranged muscle cells that forms the bulk of the heart wall .
the volume of fluid flowing into ,  out of or through the blood vessels and microvasculature of the myocardium ,  the thick contractile middle layer of uniquely constructed and arranged muscle cells that forms the bulk of the heart wall ,  per unit time .
measurement of the amount of radioactive or other tracer is lost from the myocardium ,  the thick contractile middle layer of uniquely constructed and arranged muscle cells that forms the bulk of the heart wall ,  per unit time .
any measurement of the ureter ,  one or both of the long ,  narrow ducts that convey urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder .
any measurement of the urethra ,  the canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder in most mammals and through which semen is discharged in the male .
any measurement of the urinary bladder ,  the elastic ,  muscular sac in which urine collects before excretion .
a value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of bone ,  the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts .
a value resulting from the quantification of a physiological parameter of bone ,  that is ,  a parameter related to the way a bone operates and / or the chemical or physical functions that exist in a bone .
any measurement of the form or content of one or more of the mineral components of bone .
measurement of the mineral mass per unit volume of bone ,  the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts .
measurement of the amount ,  i .e .
a measurement ,  the value of which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the mass of mineral in bone ,  the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts .
a calculated measurement in which the mass of mineral in any or all of the bones of the body is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus nromalizing it to the size of the organism .
any value resulting from a quantification of the action of forces on or related to bone ,  the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts .
a calculated geometric property of a cross section of a bone which expresses the inherent rotational stiffness of the bone .
a measurement ,  the value of which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the quantification of the action of forces on or related to bone ,  the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts .
a calculated measurement in which the value of the polar moment of inertia is divided by the total weight or heaviness of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
a calculated measurement of the force necessary to fracture a bone under specified conditions and thus a measure of the biomechanical strength of that bone .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  molecules in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  molecules in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  molecules in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  molecules in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  molecules in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  molecules in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  molecules in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  molecules in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  molecules in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in very low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  molecules in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in very low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  molecules in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in very low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  molecules in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  molecules in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  molecules in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in intermediate - density lipoprotein  ( idl )  molecules in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of chylomicrons ,  a class of lipoproteins  ( approximate density range  < 0 .95 g / ml )  that transport exogenous triglycerides and cholesterol from the small intestine to other tissues ,  found in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of chylomicrons ,  a class of lipoproteins  ( approximate density range  < 0 .95 g / ml )  that transport exogenous triglycerides and cholesterol from the small intestine to other tissues ,  found in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of the immune system ,  a complex set of interconnected and interdependent cellular and molecular components having the primary functions of distinguishing self from not self and of defense against foreign organisms or substances .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of the complex network of capillaries ,  thin vessels ,  valves ,  ducts ,  nodes ,  and organs that produces various blood cells and helps protect and maintain the internal fluid environment of the entire body by producing ,  filtering ,  and conveying lymph ,  a thin watery fluid that is collected from the organs and tissues ,  and that serves to remove bacteria and certain proteins from the tissues ,  transport fat from the small intestine ,  and supply mature lymphocytes to the blood .
a value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more lymph nodes ,  any of the accumulations of lymphoid tissue organized as definite lymphoid organs along the course of lymphatic vessels ,  consisting of an outer cortical and an inner medullary part ;  they are the main source of lymphocytes of the peripheral blood and ,  as part of the reticuloendothelial system ,  serve as a defense mechanism by removing noxious agents ,  e .g . ,  bacteria and toxins ,  and probably play a role in antibody formation .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a disease - producing stimulus and the observation of symptoms of diabetes mellitus ,  a chronic syndrome of impaired carbohydrate ,  protein ,  and fat metabolism owing to insufficient secretion of insulin or to target tissue insulin resistance and resulting in hyperglycemia due to decreased glucose tolerance .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of one or more cataracts ,  or to the official determination of cataract as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
a measurement of the chronological age ,  that is ,  the length of time since birth ,  of the individual when the symptoms of cataract first appeared ,  or when an official diagnosis of cataract was first determined .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display cataract at a point in time or develop cataract within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of cataract appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display cataract at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the amount of ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  consumed in a specified period of time .
a measurement ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the amount of ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  consumed in a specified period of time .
a measurement ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the amount of water ,  the clear ,  colorless ,  odorless ,  tasteless liquid each molecule of which contains one atom of oxygen and two atoms of hydrogen  ( h2o )  ,  consumed as a drink in a specified period of time .
a calculated measurement of ethanol intake in which the volume ,  that is ,  the size of the three dimensional space occupied by a solution of ethanol ,  a colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  consumed in a specified period of time is divided by the total volume of all fluids consumed within that period ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of an abnormal growth of tissue in the liver resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display liver tumors at a point in time or develop liver tumors within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of liver tumors appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display liver tumors at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of lipids ,  any of a structurally diverse group of organic compounds that are insoluble in water but soluble innonpolar solvents that ,  among other biological functions ,  serve as a source of fuel and are an important constituent of cell structure ,  occurring in the liver ,  the large ,  dark - red organ located in the cranial portion of the abdomen of vertebrates ,  just behind or below the diaphragm ,  the functions of which include storage and filtration of blood ;  secretion of bile ;  detoxification of noxious substances ;  conversion of sugars into glycogen ;  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ;  and synthesis of serum proteins .
the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membrane ,  found in a specified sample of liver tissue ,  a collection of similar cells in a matrix acting together to perform a particular function isolated from the liver ,  the large ,  dark - red organ located in the cranial portion of the abdomen of vertebrates ,  just behind or below the diaphragm ,  the functions of which include storage and filtration of blood ;  secretion of bile ;  detoxification of noxious substances ;  conversion of sugars into glycogen ;  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ;  and synthesis of serum proteins .
the amount of triglyceride ,  a neutral fat compound that consists of three molecules of fatty acids bound with one molecule of glycerol and that is the usual storage form of lipids in animals ,  found in a specified sample of liver tissue ,  a collection of similar cells in a matrix acting together to perform a particular function isolated from the liver ,  the large ,  dark - red organ located in the cranial portion of the abdomen of vertebrates ,  just behind or below the diaphragm ,  the functions of which include storage and filtration of blood ;  secretion of bile ;  detoxification of noxious substances ;  conversion of sugars into glycogen ;  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ;  and synthesis of serum proteins .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the amount of a solution of saccharin ,  a cyclic imine of 2 - sulfobenzoic acid which is 500 times sweeter than sugar and used as a nonnutritive sweetener ,  consumed as a drink  in a specified period of time .
a measurement ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the amount of a solution of saccharin ,  a cyclic imine of 2 - sulfobenzoic acid which is 500 times sweeter than sugar and used as a nonnutritive sweetener ,  consumed as a drink in a specified period of time .
a calculated measurement of saccharin intake in which the volume ,  that is ,  the size of the three dimensional space occupied by a solution of saccharin ,  a cyclic imine of 2 - sulfobenzoic acid which is 500 times sweeter than sugar and used as a nonnutritive sweetener ,  consumed in a specified period of time is divided by the total volume of all fluids consumed within that period ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the heaviness ,  i .e .the degree to which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  of one or both of the epididymides ,  measured after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the heaviness ,  i .e .the degree to which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  of one or both of a pair of pouchlike glands situated on each side of the male urinary bladder that secrete seminal fluid and nourish and promote the movement of spermatozoa through the urethra ,  measured after removal from the body but without dessication .
the heaviness ,  i .e .the degree to which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  of a single seminal vesicle ,  that is ,  one of a pair of pouchlike glands situated on each side of the male urinary bladder that secrete seminal fluid and nourish and promote the movement of spermatozoa through the urethra ,  measured after removal from the body but without dessication .
the heaviness ,  i .e .the degree to which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  of both of a pair of pouchlike glands situated on each side of the male urinary bladder that secrete seminal fluid and nourish and promote the movement of spermatozoa through the urethra ,  measured after removal from the body but without dessication .
the heaviness ,  i .e .the degree to which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  of both of the epididymides ,  measured after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the heaviness ,  i .e .the degree to which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  of a single epididymidis ,  measured after removal from the body but without desiccation .
a quantification which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the number of sperm ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement in which the number of sperm ,  i .e .
a quantification which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the total number of sperm ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement in which the total number of sperm ,  i .e .
the amount of saccharin ,  a cyclic imine of 2 - sulfobenzoic acid which is 500 times sweeter than sugar and used as a nonnutritive sweetener ,  consumed as a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  per unit time .
a measurement ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of saccharin ,  a cyclic imine of 2 - sulfobenzoic acid which is 500 times sweeter than sugar and used as a nonnutritive sweetener ,  consumed as a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  per unit time .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of saccharin ,  a cyclic imine of 2 - sulfobenzoic acid which is 500 times sweeter than sugar and used as a nonnutritive sweetener ,  consumed as a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  per unit time ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a measurement ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  consumed as a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  per unit time .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  consumed as a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  per unit time ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
the number of individuals in a study population which develop new instances of pituitary gland tumors in which the neoplastic tissue completely eliminates and takes the place of all of the normal tissue in the pituitary gland during a specified period of time divided by the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which develop new instances of pituitary gland tumors in which the neoplastic tissue only partially eliminates and takes the place of the normal tissue in the pituitary gland ,  resulting in a mix of neoplastic and normal tissues ,  during a specified period of time divided by the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which develop new instances of pituitary gland tumors in which neoplastic tissue grows into and / or through the membrane surrounding the gland during a specified period of time divided by the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement of a localized pathological change ,  especially one that is circumscribed and well defined ,  in structure of the pituitary gland ,  due to injury or disease and characterized by an abnormal increase in the number of normal cells in normal arrangement in the gland resulting in an increase in the size of the tissue .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display pituitary gland hyperplastic lesions at a point in time or develop pituitary gland hyperplastic lesions within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of pituitary gland hyperplastic lesions appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display pituitary gland hyperplastic lesions at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display pituitary gland tumorous lesions at a point in time or develop pituitary gland tumorous lesions within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of relapsing - remitting experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( r - eae )  appearing in a study population of individuals that already have experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in that already - diseased study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population of individuals that already have experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis which display relapsing - remitting experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( r - eae )  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in that already - diseased study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the amount of a solution of sodium chloride that is consumed as a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  per unit time .
the amount of a solution of sodium chloride that is consumed as a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  during a specified period of time .
measurement of the amount of norepinephrine ,  a catecholamine hormone and neurotransmitter ,  secreted by the adrenal medulla and the nerve endings of the sympathetic nervous system ,  that causes vasoconstriction and increases heart rate ,  blood pressure ,  and blood sugar level ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
measurement of the amount of epinephrine ,  a catecholamine hormone of the adrenal medulla that stimulates the sympathetic nervous system ,  resulting in increased heart rate and force of contraction ,  vasoconstriction or vasodilation ,  relaxation of bronchiolar and intestinal smooth muscle ,  glycogenolysis ,  lipolysis ,  and other metabolic effects ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
measurement of the amount of dopamine ,  a catecholamine hormone and neurotransmitter formed by the decarboxylation of dopa ,  which is an intermediate product in the synthesis of norepinephrine and is involved motor control ,  cognition ,  and reward ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
measurement of the amount of vanillylmandelic acid ,  the major urinary metabolite of adrenal and sympathetic catecholamines such as epinephrine and norepinephrine ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the amount of norepinephrine ,  a catecholamine hormone and neurotransmitter ,  secreted by the adrenal medulla and the nerve endings of the sympathetic nervous system ,  that causes vasoconstriction and increases heart rate ,  blood pressure ,  and blood sugar level ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
the difference in the amount of norepinephrine ,  a catecholamine hormone and neurotransmitter ,  secreted by the adrenal medulla and the nerve endings of the sympathetic nervous system ,  that causes vasoconstriction and increases heart rate ,  blood pressure ,  and blood sugar level ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys ,  between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the amount of vanillylmandelic acid ,  the major urinary metabolite of adrenal and sympathetic catecholamines such as epinephrine and norepinephrine ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
the difference in the amount of vanillylmandelic acid ,  the major urinary metabolite of adrenal and sympathetic catecholamines such as epinephrine and norepinephrine ,  in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys ,  between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
the heaviness or degree to which the inguinal fat pad ,  the accumulation of encapsulated adipose tissue located in the junctional region between the abdomen and thigh ,  is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
a calculated value in which the weight of one of the inguinal fat pads ,  that is ,  the accumulations of encapsulated adipose tissue located in the junctional region between the abdomen and thigh ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated value in which the total weight of both of the inguinal fat pads ,  that is ,  the accumulations of encapsulated adipose tissue located in the junctional region between the abdomen and thigh ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of vascular smooth muscle ,  the contractile soft tissue having fine myofibrils but lacking transverse striations composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels ,  the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body .
any quantification of the physical form or structure of the layered tissue which encloses and constitutes the structural component of the great artery arising from the left ventricle from which the systemic arterial system proceeds .
measurement of the total number of cells ,  membrane - enclosed protoplasmic masses constituting the smallest structural unit of an organism that is capable of independent functioning ,  in a specified sample of the aorta smooth muscle ,  the contractile soft tissue having fine myofibrils but lacking transverse striations composing the majority of the wall of the great artery arising from the left ventricle from which the systemic arterial system proceeds .
measurement of the total number of cells ,  membrane - enclosed protoplasmic masses constituting the smallest structural unit of an organism that is capable of independent functioning ,  in a specified sample of vascular smooth muscle ,  the contractile soft tissue having fine myofibrils but lacking transverse striations composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels ,  the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the total number of cells ,  membrane - enclosed protoplasmic masses constituting the smallest structural unit of an organism that is capable of independent functioning ,  in a specified sample of vascular smooth muscle ,  the contractile soft tissue having fine myofibrils but lacking transverse striations composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels ,  the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the total number of cells ,  membrane - enclosed protoplasmic masses constituting the smallest structural unit of an organism that is capable of independent functioning ,  in a specified sample of the aorta smooth muscle ,  the contractile soft tissue having fine myofibrils but lacking transverse striations composing the majority of the wall of the great artery arising from the left ventricle from which the systemic arterial system proceeds .
a calculated value in which the total number of cells ,  membrane - enclosed protoplasmic masses constituting the smallest structural unit of an organism that is capable of independent functioning ,  in a specified sample of the aorta smooth muscle ,  the contractile soft tissue having fine myofibrils but lacking transverse striations composing the majority of the wall of the great artery arising from the left ventricle from which the systemic arterial system proceeds ,  is divided by the length of the smooth muscle section in which that number is determined .
the amount of deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  the molecule composed of the sugar deoxyribose ,  phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  extracted from or contained in the heart left ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the left side of the heart  ( from the perspective of the organism rather than the observer )  ,  which pumps oxygenated blood out through the aorta to all the tissues of the body .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  the molecule composed of the sugar deoxyribose ,  phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  extracted from or contained in the heart left ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the left side of the heart  ( from the perspective of the organism rather than the observer )  ,  which pumps oxygenated blood out through the aorta to all the tissues of the body .
a calculated measurement in which amount of deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  the molecule composed of the sugar deoxyribose ,  phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  extracted from or contained in the heart left ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the left side of the heart  ( from the perspective of the organism rather than the observer )  ,  which pumps oxygenated blood out through the aorta to all the tissues of the body ,  is divided by the total weight or heaviness of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
the amount of deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  the molecule composed of the sugar deoxyribose ,  phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  extracted from or contained in the heart right ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the right side of the heart  ( from the perspective of the organism rather than the observer )  ,  which pumps venous blood through the pulmonary trunk and arteries to the capillaries of the lung .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  the molecule composed of the sugar deoxyribose ,  phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  extracted from or contained in the heart right ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the right side of the heart  ( from the perspective of the organism rather than the observer )  ,  which pumps venous blood through the pulmonary trunk and arteries to the capillaries of the lung .
a calculated measurement in which amount of deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  the molecule composed of the sugar deoxyribose ,  phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  extracted from or contained in the heart right ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the right side of the heart  ( from the perspective of the organism rather than the observer )  ,  which pumps venous blood through the pulmonary trunk and arteries to the capillaries of the lung ,  is divided by the total weight or heaviness of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
measurement of the highest achievable amount of energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel ,  any one of the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body ,  resulting from a contraction of the muscular wall of the vessel which does not involve the action of a receptor ,  a molecule on the surface or within a cell that recognizes and binds with specific molecules ,  producing a specific effect .
measurement of the highest achievable amount of energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel ,  any one of the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body ,  resulting from a contraction of the muscular wall of the vessel which is instigated by the activation of a receptor ,  a molecule on the surface or within a cell that recognizes and binds with specific molecules ,  producing a specific effect .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the highest achievable amount of energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel ,  any one of the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body ,  resulting from contraction of the muscular wall of the vessel .
a calculated measurement in which the receptor - dependent maximum contractile force of a blood vessel is divided by the receptor - independent maximum contractile force of a blood vessel and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated value for the concentration of angiotensin ii  ( angii )  ,  the octapeptide ,  asp - arg - val - tyr - ile - his - pro - phe ,  that is derived from angiotensinogen and acts as a powerful vasopressor and stimulator of aldosterone secretion ,  at which the energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of angii is halfway between the baseline value and the highest achievable value of such angii - induced contractile energy .
a calculated value for logarithm of the concentration of angiotensin ii  ( angii )  ,  the octapeptide ,  asp - arg - val - tyr - ile - his - pro - phe ,  that is derived from angiotensinogen and acts as a powerful vasopressor and stimulator of aldosterone secretion ,  at which the energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of angii is halfway between the baseline value and the highest achievable value of such angii - induced contractile energy .
measurement of an organism's ,  organ's ,  tissue's or cell's capacity to respond ,  such as by a change in activity ,  state or condition ,  to angiotensin ii  ( angii )  ,  the octapeptide ,  asp - arg - val - tyr - ile - his - pro - phe ,  that is derived from angiotensinogen and acts as a powerful vasopressor and stimulator of aldosterone secretion .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a measurement of the extent of a plane through ,  that is ,  perpendicular to the longest axis of ,  the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
the portion of the cross - sectional area of the femur that corresponds to the area of the cortex ,  the outer layer of the bone .
the portion of the cross - sectional area of the femur ,  measured midway between the two ends of the bone ,  that corresponds to the area of the cortex ,  the outer layer of the bone .
a calculated value resulting from a quantification of the action of forces on or related to the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a calculated value resulting from a quantification of the action of forces on or related to a vertebra ,  one of the individual bones forming the spinal column ,  the protective bony corridor through which the spinal cord passes .
a calculated value resulting from a quantification of the action of forces on or related to the femoral neck ,  the heavy column of bone connecting the head and the shaft of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a calculated value resulting from a quantification of the action of forces on or related to the midshaft of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds ,  when the measurement is made at a point midway between the two ends of the bone .
a calculated geometric property of a cross section of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a calculated geometric property of a cross section of the femoral midshaft ,  a point midway between the two ends of the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a calculated geometric property of a cross section of the femoral neck ,  the heavy ,  flattened ,  pyramidal process of bone connecting the head and the shaft of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds ,  at a point midway between the two ends of the bone .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the femoral neck ,  the heavy ,  flattened ,  pyramidal process of bone connecting the head and the shaft of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a calculated measurement of the rigidity of a bone ,  that is ,  the extent to which it resists deformation in response to an applied force ,  taken as the initial ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement of the rigidity of the femur ,  that is ,  the extent to which it resists deformation in response to an applied force ,  taken as the initial ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement of the force necessary to fracture the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds ,  under specified conditions and thus a measure of the biomechanical strength of that bone .
a calculated measurement of the maximum amount of energy a bone can absorb under stress before it breaks ,  derived as the area under the stress - strain or load - displacement curve at the point of failure .
a calculated measurement of the maximum amount of energy the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds ,  can absorb under stress before it breaks ,  derived as the area under the stress - strain or load - displacement curve at the point of failure .
a calculated measurement of the force necessary to fracture a vertebra ,  one of the individual bones forming the spinal column ,  the protective bony corridor through which the spinal cord passes ,  under specified conditions and thus a measure of the biomechanical strength of that bone .
quantitation of the physical form or structure of one or more vertebrae ,  the individual bones forming the spinal column ,  the protective bony corridor through which the spinal cord passes .
the distance from end to end of a single vertebra ,  that is ,  the distance between the two surfaces in one vertebra that connect to the corresponding surfaces of adjacent vertebrae .
any measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of  ( surface area )  or plane through  ( cross - sectional area )  a bone ,  the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the extent of a plane through ,  that is ,  perpendicular to the longest axis of a bone ,  the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts .
the distance from end to end of a single lumbar vertebra ,  that is ,  the distance between the two surfaces in one vertebra that connect to the corresponding surfaces of adjacent vertebrae .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through a vertebra ,  any of the individual bones forming the spinal column ,  the protective bony corridor through which the spinal cord passes .
a measurement of the extent of a plane through ,  that is ,  perpendicular to the axis of ,  a vertebra ,  any of the individual bones forming the spinal column ,  the protective bony corridor through which the spinal cord passes .
the portion of the cross - sectional area of a vertebra that corresponds to the area of the cortex ,  the outer ,  more dense layer of the bone .
a value resulting from the quantification of the physical form or structure of one or more lumbar vertebrae ,  any of the individual bones forming the portion of the spinal column  ( the protective bony corridor through which the spinal cord passes )  between the thoracic vertebrae in the chest region and the sacrum in the hip region .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through a lumbar vertebra ,  any of the individual bones forming the portion of the spinal column  ( the protective bony corridor through which the spinal cord passes )  between the thoracic vertebrae in the chest region and the sacrum in the hip region .
a measurement of the extent of a plane through ,  that is ,  perpendicular to the axis of ,  a lumbar vertebra ,  any of the individual bones forming the portion of the spinal column  ( the protective bony corridor through which the spinal cord passes )  between the thoracic vertebrae in the chest region and the sacrum in the hip region .
the portion of the cross - sectional area of a lumbar vertebra that corresponds to the area of the cortex ,  the outer layer of the bone .
the portion of the cross - sectional area of a vertebra that corresponds to the area occupied by cancellous or spongy bone ,  the inner ,  less dense ,  more metabolically active type of osseous tissue made up of a network of tiny lattice - shaped spicules often containing marrow .
the portion of the cross - sectional area of a lumbar vertebra that corresponds to the area occupied by cancellous or spongy bone ,  the inner ,  less dense ,  more metabolically active type of osseous tissue made up of a network of tiny lattice - shaped spicules often containing marrow .
any measurement of the extent of a plane through ,  that is ,  perpendicular to the longest axis of a bone ,  the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the extent of a plane through ,  that is ,  perpendicular to the longest axis of ,  the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
the shortest transverse distance across the femoral neck ,  the heavy ,  flattened ,  pyramidal process of bone connecting the head and the shaft of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through the femoral neck ,  the heavy ,  flattened ,  pyramidal process of bone connecting the head and the shaft of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a measurement of the extent of a plane through ,  that is ,  perpendicular to the longest axis of ,  the femoral neck ,  the heavy ,  flattened ,  pyramidal process of bone connecting the head and the shaft of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the extent of a plane through ,  that is ,  perpendicular to the longest axis of ,  the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through the femoral midshaft ,  a point midway between the two ends of the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a measurement of the extent of a plane through the femoral midshaft ,  a point midway between the two ends of the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the extent of a plane through the femoral midshaft ,  a point midway between the two ends of the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds .
the portion of the cross - sectional area of the femoral neck that corresponds to the area of the cortex ,  the outer ,  more dense layer of the bone .
a calculated measurement of the force necessary to fracture the femural neck ,  the heavy ,  flattened ,  pyramidal process of bone connecting the head and the shaft of the femur ,  the major bone in the upper portion of the hindlimb of quadrupeds or the lower limb of bipeds ,  under specified conditions and thus a measure of the biomechanical strength of that bone .
measurement in a specified sample of liver of the number of lesions which are or have the potential to become tumors ,  that is ,  neoplasms or new growths of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive ,  but which display a remodeling phenotype ,  that is ,  a progressive decrease in biochemical marker expression and growth rate ,  and finally complete regression ,  when that number has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement in which the number of tumorous lesions which display a remodeling phenotype ,  that is ,  a progressive decrease in biochemical marker expression and growth rate ,  and finally complete regression ,  in a specified sample of liver is divided by the total number of tumorous lesions in that sample of liver ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a value or quantity determined by count of abnormal growths of tissue in the liver or in a specified sample of liver tissue resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function .
a value or quantity determined by count of abnormal but benign growths of tissue in the liver or in a specified sample of liver tissue ,  i .e .
a value or quantity determined by count of abnormal ,  malignant growths of tissue in the liver or in a specified sample of liver tissue ,  i .e .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display benign liver tumors at a point in time or develop benign liver tumors within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display malignant liver tumors at a point in time or develop malignant liver tumors within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of benign liver tumors appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of malignant liver tumors appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display benign liver tumors at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display malignant liver tumors at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
measurement of the entire cross - sectional area of the tibia ,  that is ,  the extent of a plane perpendicular to the longest axis of the tibia and bounded by the periosteum ,  the thick fibrous membrane covering the entire surface of a bone except its articular cartilage and serving as an attachment for muscles and tendons .
the portion of the cross - sectional area of the tibia ,  measured midway between the two ends of the bone ,  that corresponds to the area circumscribed by the endosteum ,  the tissue lining the medullary or marrow cavity in the shaft of a long bone ,  i .e .
measurement of all or part of the cross - sectional area of the tibia measured midway between the two ends of the bone .
measurement of all or part of the cross - sectional area of the tibia - fibula ,  the portion of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds  ( tibia ,  the medial and larger bone ,  and fibula ,  the lateral and smaller bone )  which are fused to form a single bone ,  e .g .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the fibula ,  the lateral and smaller of the two bones of the leg ,  which articulates proximally with the tibia and distally articulates with or is joined to the tibia .
a measurement of the extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through the fibula ,  the lateral and smaller of the two bones of the leg ,  which articulates proximally with the tibia and distally articulates with or is joined to the tibia .
measurement of the entire cross - sectional area of the tibia - fibula cortical bone ,  that is ,  the extent of a plane perpendicular to the longest axis of the tibia - fibula cortical bone and bounded by the periosteum ,  the thick fibrous membrane covering the entire surface of a bone except its articular cartilage and serving as an attachment for muscles and tendons .
the portion of the cross - sectional area of the tibia - fibula cortical bone that corresponds to the area circumscribed by the endosteum ,  the tissue lining the medullary or marrow cavity in the shaft of a long bone ,  i .e .
any measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by all or part of the tibia ,  the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the entire tibia ,  the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus ,  including the diaphysis composed of cortical bone and two epiphyses composed of trabecular bone .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the portion of the tibia composed of cortical bone .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by all or part of the tibia ,  the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
a calculated measurement in which the portion of the volume of the tibia corresponding to cortical bone is divided by the entire volume of the tibia and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
measurement of the mineral mass per unit volume of an entire bone ,  the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts ,  including any and all relevant subdivisions of that bone .
measurement of the mineral mass per unit volume of trabecular bone .
measurement of the mineral mass per unit volume of corrical bone .
measurement of the linear distance from one end to the other of the segment of the tibia ,  the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus ,  that is straight ,  that is ,  that approximates a line representing the shortest path between its two end points .
measurement of the linear distance from one end to the other of the segment of the tibia ,  the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus ,  that is curved ,  that is ,  that approximates a line with a gradual smooth bend .
any value resulting from a quantification of the action of forces on or related to the tibia ,  the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus .
a calculated measurement of the force necessary to fracture the tibia ,  the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus ,  under specified conditions and thus a measure of the biomechanical strength of that bone .
a calculated measurement of the rigidity of the tibia ,  that is ,  the extent to which it resists deformation in response to an applied force ,  taken as the initial ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement of the maximum amount of energy the tibia ,  the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus ,  can absorb under stress before it breaks ,  derived as the area under the stress - strain or load - displacement curve at the point of failure .
any measurement of the functioning ,  e .g .
measurement of a series of regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharges in the brain ,  the portion of the central nervous system enclosed within the cranium which is composed of gray matter and white matter and is the primary center for the regulation and control of bodily activities ,  receiving and interpreting sensory impulses ,  and transmitting information to the muscles and body organs .
measurement of the number of periods of spike - and - wave discharges occurring per unit of time .
measurement of the cumulated duration of spikes and waves occurring per unit of time during a series of regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharges in the brain ,  the portion of the central nervous system enclosed within the cranium which is composed of gray matter and white matter and is the primary center for the regulation and control of bodily activities ,  receiving and interpreting sensory impulses ,  and transmitting information to the muscles and body organs .
measurement of the maximum deviation from the baseline position of the electrical signal during a series of regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharges in the brain ,  the portion of the central nervous system enclosed within the cranium which is composed of gray matter and white matter and is the primary center for the regulation and control of bodily activities ,  receiving and interpreting sensory impulses ,  and transmitting information to the muscles and body organs .
measurement of the number of individual spike - and - wave discharge cycles occurring per second .
the difference in left ventricular diastolic blood pressure between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
any measurement of the blood pressure in the left ventricle of the heart which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement that is used as an index to characterize the contractile ability of the heart .
a calculated hemodynamic measurement related to the ability of the heart left ventricle to relax .
a calculated hemodynamic value related to the ability of the heart left ventricle to relax .
any measurement related to the activity of one or more organisms cleaning themselves or one another .
the total amount of time during an experiment in which an animal is maintained in a piece of technical equipment or machinery ,  or in an appliance or device designed for a particular purpose ,  that the animal spends cleaning itself or cleaning another animal .
the total amount of time that the animal spends in a distinct and specified area of an experimental apparatus cleaning itself or cleaning another animal .
a value or quantity determined by count of distinct ,  separable periods of time during which an animal in a piece of technical equipment or machinery ,  an appliance ,  or a device designed for a particular purpose is cleaning itself or another animal .
a value or quantity determined by count of how many times a quadrupedal subject in a piece of technical equipment or machinery ,  an appliance ,  or a device designed for a particular purpose rises up on its back legs .
a value or quantity determined by count of how many times a quadrupedal subject in a distinct and specified area of a piece of technical equipment or machinery ,  an appliance ,  or a device designed for a particular purpose ,  rises up on its back legs .
the amount of time between putting an experimental subject in a piece of technical equipment or machinery ,  an appliance ,  or a device designed for a particular purpose ,  and the point of first voluntary locomotion of the subject .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the physical form or structure of the pituitary gland ,  the small ,  oval endocrine gland attached to the base of the vertebrate brain and consisting of an anterior and posterior lobe ,  the secretions of which control the other endocrine glands and influence growth ,  metabolism ,  and maturation .
the enumeration ,  i .e .measurement of the total number ,  of pituicytes ,  the glial - type cells of the posterior pituitary whose main role is to assist in the storage and release of neurohypophysial hormones such as oxytocin and vasopressin ,  in a specified sample of pituitary gland ,  the small ,  oval endocrine gland attached to the base of the vertebrate brain and consisting of an anterior and posterior lobe ,  the secretions of which control the other endocrine glands and influence growth ,  metabolism ,  and maturation .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lactotrophs in a specified sample of pituitary gland is divided by the total number of pituicytes in that sample and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display endometrioid carcinoma at a point in time or develop endometrioid carcinoma within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of endometrioid carcinoma appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display endometrioid carcinoma at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
a measurement of the total extent of the two - dimensional surface of the liver occupied by tumorous lesions ,  i .e . ,  the sum of all measured areas on the outer ,  superficial or external aspect of an individual liver occupied by tumorous lesions .
measurement of the weight or heaviness of the drink ,  that is ,  the liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  consumed in a specified period of time .
measurement of the weight or heaviness of a solution of ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  that is consumed as a drink ,  a liquid brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  in a specified period of time .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight or heaviness of a solution of ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  that is consumed as a drink ,  a liquid brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  in a specified period of time .
a calculated measurement in which ethanol intake weight is divided by total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
any measurement related to a change of place or position of all or part of the body of an organism ,  or to the ability of an organism to maintain bodily equilibrium and postural control ,  the motor control that stabilizes the body in space by integrating sensory input about body position  ( somatosensory ,  visual ,  and vestibular input )  with motor output to coordinate the action of muscles and keep the body's center of mass within its base of support .
any measurement related to the ability of an organism to maintain bodily equilibrium and postural control ,  the motor control that stabilizes the body in space by integrating sensory input about body position  ( somatosensory ,  visual ,  and vestibular input )  with motor output to coordinate the action of muscles and keep the body's center of mass within its base of support .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by a solution of quinine consumed as a drink ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst and / or for nourishment .
a measurement ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by a solution of quinine consumed as a drink ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst and / or for nourishment .
a calculated measurement in which the entire volume of drink consumed during a specified period when that drink consists of both water with no additives and water with added quinine ,  is divided by the entire volume of drink consumed during a separate but equivalent period when that drink consists only of water with no additives ,  and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  found in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
a calculated measurement of the decrease in the concentration  ( the amount per unit of volume )  of ethanol ,  the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene ,  in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them ,  per unit time .
a calculated measurement of the rate at which the amount of alcohol in the blood divided by body weight  ( i .e .
a quantification which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of any parameter related to the process whereby food  ( i .e .
a calculated measurement of the difference in the amount of food  ( material ,  usually of plant or animal origin ,  that contains essential nutrients such as carbohydrates ,  fats ,  proteins ,  vitamins ,  and / or minerals and that is ingested and assimilated by an organism to produce energy ,  stimulate growth ,  and maintain life )  taken in for utilization by the body between two points in time or two conditions ,  expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
a calculated measurement of the difference in the weight of food  ( material ,  usually of plant or animal origin ,  that contains essential nutrients such as carbohydrates ,  fats ,  proteins ,  vitamins ,  and / or minerals and that is ingested and assimilated by an organism to produce energy ,  stimulate growth ,  and maintain life )  taken in for utilization by the body between two points in time or two conditions ,  expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
a calculated measurement of the difference in the volume ,  i .e . ,  the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the food  ( material ,  usually of plant or animal origin ,  that contains essential nutrients such as carbohydrates ,  fats ,  proteins ,  vitamins ,  and / or minerals and that is ingested and assimilated by an organism to produce energy ,  stimulate growth ,  and maintain life )  taken in for utilization by the body between two points in time or two conditions ,  expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
a calculated measurement of the relative difference in the amount of food  ( material ,  usually of plant or animal origin ,  that contains essential nutrients such as carbohydrates ,  fats ,  proteins ,  vitamins ,  and / or minerals and that is ingested and assimilated by an organism to produce energy ,  stimulate growth ,  and maintain life )  taken in for utilization by the body ,  between a treated state and a control state or between two points in time ,  expressed as a percentage .
a calculated measurement of the relative difference in the volume ,  i .e . ,  the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the food  ( material ,  usually of plant or animal origin ,  that contains essential nutrients such as carbohydrates ,  fats ,  proteins ,  vitamins ,  and / or minerals and that is ingested and assimilated by an organism to produce energy ,  stimulate growth ,  and maintain life )  taken in for utilization by the body ,  between a treated state and a control state or between two points in time ,  expressed as a percentage .
a calculated measurement of the relative difference in the weight of food  ( material ,  usually of plant or animal origin ,  that contains essential nutrients such as carbohydrates ,  fats ,  proteins ,  vitamins ,  and / or minerals and that is ingested and assimilated by an organism to produce energy ,  stimulate growth ,  and maintain life )  taken in for utilization by the body ,  between a treated state and a control state or between two points in time ,  expressed as a percentage .
measurement of the amount of one or more catecholamine hormones ,  any of a group of amines composed of a pyrocatechol molecule and the aliphatic portion of an amine that have important physiological effects as hormones and usually also as neurotransmitters ,  in a specified sample of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of dopamine ,  a catecholamine hormone and neurotransmitter formed by the decarboxylation of dopa ,  which is an intermediate product in the synthesis of norepinephrine and is involved motor control ,  cognition ,  and reward ,  in a specified sample of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of dopamine ,  a catecholamine hormone and neurotransmitter formed by the decarboxylation of dopa ,  which is an intermediate product in the synthesis of norepinephrine and is involved motor control ,  cognition ,  and reward ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of dopamine ,  a catecholamine hormone and neurotransmitter formed by the decarboxylation of dopa ,  which is an intermediate product in the synthesis of norepinephrine and is involved motor control ,  cognition ,  and reward ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a measurement that has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the recordable electrical energy in a renal sympathetic nerve ,  a nerve of the autonomic nervous system that regulates involuntary and automatic reactions ,  especially to stress ,  associated with and controlling activity of the kidneys .
a calculated measurement in which the recordable electrical energy of a renal sympathetic nerve assessed after the application of an agent or activity designed to excite or increase the activity of is divided by the activity of such a nerve assessed without outside influences and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of an abnormal growth of the mucous membrane lining the uterus resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function .
any measurement of an abnormal and malignant growth of the epithelial cells of the mucous membrane lining the uterus that results from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells ,  serves no physiological function ,  and forms or appears to form glandular structures .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display endometrial adenocarcinomas at a point in time or develop endometrial adenocarcinomas within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of endometrial adenocarcinomas appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display endometrial adenocarcinomas at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the entire volume of drink consumed during a specified period when that drink consists of both water with no additives and water with added saccharin ,  is divided by the entire volume of drink consumed during a separate but equivalent period when that drink consists only of water with no additives ,  and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the quantification of a parameter related to an abnormal growth of tissue resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function ,  which occurs in the large intestine ,  the distal portion of the alimentary canal ,  especially in the colon and / or rectum ,  the segment of the large intestine between the cecum and the anal canal .
a value or quantity determined by count of colorectal tumors ,  abnormal growths of tissue resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function ,  which occur in the large intestine ,  the distal portion of the alimentary canal ,  especially in the colon and / or rectum ,  the segment of the large intestine between the cecum and the anal canal .
a value or quantity determined by count of benign colorectal tumors ,  abnormal growths of tissue resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function ,  which are generally stable ,  treatable ,  circumscribed  ( that is ,  not displaying invasiveness or metastasis )  ,  and in a relatively normal state of differentiation ,  and which occur in the large intestine ,  the distal portion of the alimentary canal ,  especially in the colon and / or rectum ,  the segment of the large intestine between the cecum and the anal canal .
a value or quantity determined by count of malignant colorectal tumors ,  abnormal growths of tissue resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function ,  which display the properties of anaplasia ,  invasiveness and metastasis ,  and which occur in the large intestine ,  the distal portion of the alimentary canal ,  especially in the colon and / or rectum ,  the segment of the large intestine between the cecum and the anal canal .
a measurement of the two - dimensional extent of a planar region comprising the superficial or external aspect of one or more colorectal tumors ,  abnormal growths of tissue resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function ,  which occur in the large intestine ,  the distal portion of the alimentary canal ,  especially in the colon and / or rectum ,  the segment of the large intestine between the cecum and the anal canal .
a measurement of the two - dimensional extent of a planar region comprising the superficial or external aspect of one or more malignant colorectal tumors ,  abnormal growths of tissue resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function ,  which display the properties of anaplasia ,  invasiveness and metastasis ,  and which occur in the large intestine ,  the distal portion of the alimentary canal ,  especially in the colon and / or rectum ,  the segment of the large intestine between the cecum and the anal canal .
a measurement of the two - dimensional extent of a planar region comprising the superficial or external aspect of one or more benign colorectal tumors ,  abnormal growths of tissue resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function ,  which are generally stable ,  treatable ,  circumscribed  ( that is ,  not displaying invasiveness or metastasis )  ,  and in a relatively normal state of differentiation ,  and which occur in the large intestine ,  the distal portion of the alimentary canal ,  especially in the colon and / or rectum ,  the segment of the large intestine between the cecum and the anal canal .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display colorectal tumors at a point in time or develop colorectal tumors within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of colorectal tumors appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of malignant colorectal tumors appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of benign colorectal tumors appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display colorectal tumors at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display malignant colorectal tumors at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display benign colorectal tumors at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the hair ,  wool ,  or fur of an organism ,  that is ,  of either a single cylindrical ,  keratinized ,  often pigmented filament characteristically growing from the epidermis of a mammal ,  or of the aggregate of all such filaments .
any measurement of the color of the hair ,  wool ,  or fur of an organism ,  that is ,  of either a single cylindrical ,  keratinized ,  often pigmented filament characteristically growing from the epidermis of a mammal ,  or of the aggregate of all such filaments .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the color of the hair ,  wool ,  or fur of an organism ,  that is ,  of either a single cylindrical ,  keratinized ,  often pigmented filament characteristically growing from the epidermis of a mammal ,  or of the aggregate of all such filaments .
a calculated measurement in which the value representing the two - dimensional extent of the planar region of the body surface occupied by hair ,  wool ,  or fur  ( cylindrical ,  keratinized ,  often pigmented filaments characteristically growing from the epidermis of a mammal )  containing proteins or other substances which give that hair the appearance of color ,  is divided by the value representing the entirety of the two - dimensional extent of the planar region of the body surface of the organism occupied by hair ,  wool ,  or fur with or without color ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the value representing the two - dimensional extent of the planar region of the dorsal half of the body surface occupied by hair ,  wool ,  or fur  ( cylindrical ,  keratinized ,  often pigmented filaments characteristically growing from the epidermis of a mammal )  containing proteins or other substances which give that hair the appearance of color ,  is divided by the value representing the entirety of the two - dimensional extent of the planar region of the dorsal half of the body surface of the organism occupied by hair ,  wool ,  or fur with or without color ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the value representing the two - dimensional extent of the planar region of the ventral half of the body surface occupied by hair ,  wool ,  or fur  ( cylindrical ,  keratinized ,  often pigmented filaments characteristically growing from the epidermis of a mammal )  containing proteins or other substances which give that hair the appearance of color ,  is divided by the value representing the entirety of the two - dimensional extent of the planar region of the ventral half of the body surface of the organism occupied by hair ,  wool ,  or fur with or without color ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the value representing the two - dimensional extent of the part ( s )  of the head region of the pancreas  ( that is ,  the portion of the pancreas which lies closest to the duodenum ,  the first segment of the small intestine )  in which insulin ,  the major ,  fuel - regulating peptide hormone that promotes storage of glucose and inhibits lipolysis and gluconeogenesis ,  can be detected is divided by the value representing the entirety of the two - dimensional extent of the head region of the pancreas ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the value representing the two - dimensional extent of the part ( s )  of the tail region of the pancreas  ( that is ,  the portion of the pancreas which lies furthest from the major pancreatic duct and closest to the spleen ,  the highly vascular lymphoid organ which serves to store blood ,  disintegrate old blood cells ,  filter foreign substances from the blood ,  and produce lymphocytes )  in which insulin ,  the major ,  fuel - regulating peptide hormone that promotes storage of glucose and inhibits lipolysis and gluconeogenesis ,  can be detected is divided by the value representing the entirety of the two - dimensional extent of the tail region of the pancreas ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
measurement of the weight ,  i .e . ,  the heaviness or the force with which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  of a single pancreatic islet or of the total of all of the islets in the entire pancreas or in a specified part thereof .
a measurement ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight ,  i .e . ,  the heaviness or the force with which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  of a single pancreatic islet or of the total of all of the islets in the entire pancreas or in a specified part thereof .
a measurement ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight  ( the heaviness or the force with which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity )  of the entirety of the islet beta cells in the pancreas .
a measurement ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight  ( the heaviness or the force with which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity )  of the islet beta cells in the head region of the pancreas ,  the portion of the pancreas which lies closest to the duodenum ,  the first segment of the small intestine ,  and contains the major pancreatic duct .
a measurement ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight  ( the heaviness or the force with which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity )  of the islet beta cells in the tail region of the pancreas  ( that is ,  the portion of the pancreas which lies furthest from the major pancreatic duct and closest to the spleen ,  the highly vascular lymphoid organ which serves to store blood ,  disintegrate old blood cells ,  filter foreign substances from the blood ,  and produce lymphocytes )  .
a calculated measurement in which the weight ,  that is ,  the heaviness or the force with which a body is drawn toward earth by gravity ,  of the beta cells in the head region of the pancreas is derived by multiplying the weight of the entire head region of the pancreas by this fraction:  [ average cross - sectional area of pancreatic islet beta cells in the head region divided by average cross - sectional area of the head region of the pancreas ]  .
a calculated measurement in which the weight ,  that is ,  the heaviness or the force with which a body is drawn toward earth by gravity ,  of the beta cells in the tail region of the pancreas is derived by multiplying the weight of the entire tail region of the pancreas by this fraction:  [ average cross - sectional area of pancreatic islet beta cells in the tail region divided by average cross - sectional area of the tail region of the pancreas ]  .
the amount of prolactin found in a specified volume of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
the amount of prolactin found in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of prolactin found in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of an infection has caused pain or damage ,  or of the degree to which an infectious agent  ( e .g . ,  bacteria ,  virus or parasite )  has established lesions or infectious colonies ,  and / or taken over or interfered with the normal functioning of the body as a whole ,  or of one or more organs ,  tissues ,  cells or subcellular mechanisms of an organism .
any measurement of the degree to which infection by or the presence of a parasite has caused pain or damage ,  or of the degree to which a parasite has established lesions or infectious colonies ,  and / or taken over or interfered with the normal functioning of the body as a whole ,  or of one or more organs ,  tissues ,  cells or subcellular mechanisms of an organism .
the enumeration ,  i .e .measurement of the total number ,  of individual parasitic organisms in a specified sample of an infected tissue or bodily fluid ,  or in the entire body of the host .
a measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds to a specific antigen ,  a substance introduced into an organism which initiates an immune response including the production of the very antibodies which bind to it in an effort to destroy it ,  in a specified sample of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of anti - toxoplasma antibodies in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of anti - toxoplasma antibodies in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a measurement related to anti - parasite antibodies in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of anti - toxoplasma antibodies in a specified sample of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
any measurement related to immunoglobulins ,  any of several classes of proteins produced by plasma cells and lymphocytes which play essential roles in the immune system ,  for example ,  attaching to foreign substances in an effort to destroy them .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of colonic aganglionosis has caused pain or damage ,  established lesions ,  and / or interfered with the normal functioning of the colon ,  the segment of the large intestine between the cecum and the rectum .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the degree to which the presentation of colonic aganglionosis has caused pain or damage ,  established lesions ,  and / or interfered with the normal functioning of the colon ,  the segment of the large intestine between the cecum and the rectum .
a calculated measurement in which the value of the cumulative linear size along the longest dimension of the segments of the colon affected by colonic aganglionosis is divided by the value of the entire linear distance between the two ends of that colon and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display colonic aganglionosis at a point in time or develop colonic aganglionosis within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of individuals in a study population which display colonic aganglionosis at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of colonic aganglionosis appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the thickness or depth  ( i .e .
any measurement of the number of cells in the thymus ,  the lymphoid organ which is the site of the proliferation ,  differentiation and maturation of t lymphocytes ,  and of the production of hormones such as thymopoietin and thymosin which control these processes .
measurement of the entire number of cells in the thymus without regard to the type of cell ,  i .e .
measurement of the number of lymphocytes ,  i .e .
measurement of the number of non - thymocyte cells ,  i .e . ,  connective tissue cells such as cortical and medullary epithelial cells and dendritic cells ,  in the thymus .
the number of lymphocytes expressing t cell receptor molecules on their surface in a specified sample of thymus tissue .
the number of lymphocytes expressing the cd45 receptor  ( protein tyrosine phosphatase ,  receptor type ,  c ;  ptprc )  on their surface in a specified sample of thymus tissue .
the quantification of any morphological or physiological parameter of the thymus ,  the lymphoid organ which is the site of the proliferation ,  differentiation and maturation of t lymphocytes ,  and of the production of hormones such as thymopoietin and thymosin which control these processes .
the quantification of any morphological or physiological parameter of the spleen ,  the highly vascular lymphoid organ which serves to store blood ,  disintegrate old blood cells ,  filter foreign substances from the blood ,  and produce lymphocytes .
the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of bone marrow ,  the soft ,  organic ,  spongelike material in the internal cavities of bones  ( the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts )  .
a calculated measurement of the fraction of sodium actually excreted in the urine relative to the amount filtered by the kidneys .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of bone marrow ,  the soft ,  organic ,  spongelike material in the internal cavities of bones  ( the hard ,  rigid form of connective tissue constituting most of the skeleton of vertebrates and composed chiefly of calcium salts )  .
any quantification of the amounts or proportions of proteins ,  lipids ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances ina specified sample of kidney tissue ,  that is ,  tissue from one or both of the paired organs which function to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
quanitification of one or more lipids in a specified sample of kidney tissue ,  that is ,  tissue from one or both of the paired organs which function to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
the amount of 20 - hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ,  a vasoconstrictor that consists of arachidonic acid  ( a c20 ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid having four  ( z )  - double bonds at positions 5 ,  8 ,  11 and 14 )  bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 20 ,  in a specified sample of kidney tissue ,  that is ,  tissue from one or both of the paired organs which function to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
a calculated measurement in which urine sodium excretion rate is divided by the total weight of the body ,  i .e . ,  the heaviness or the degree to which the body of the organism is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any quantification of the amounts or proportions of proteins ,  lipids ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances in a specified sample of pancreatic islet tissue ,  i .e .
the amount of insulin in a specified sample of pancreatic islet tissue ,  i .e .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display acute experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  at a point in time or develop acute eae within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of acute experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any quantification related to an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds to a specific antigen ,  a substance introduced into an organism which initiates an immune response including the production of the very antibodies which bind to it in an effort to destroy it .
measurement of the amount of a specific antibody determined as the maximal dilution of the antibody solution at which that antibody can still be detected .
measurement of the amount of a specific autoantibody determined as the maximal dilution of the autoantibody solution at which that antibody can still be detected .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more of the cells of the immune system ,  a complex set of interconnected and interdependent cellular and molecular components having the primary functions of distinguishing self from not self and of defense against foreign organisms or substances .
the number of immune cells in a specified sample .
any quantification of the corpuscular or electromagnetic radiations emitted consequent to nuclear disintegration of a radioactive isotope which is replacing a stable chemical element in a compound that has been introduced into lymphocytes  ( small agranulocytic leukocytes that originate from fetal stem cells and develop in the bone marrow )  rendering them able to be followed or tracked through the body .
any quantification ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the corpuscular or electromagnetic radiations emitted consequent to nuclear disintegration of a radioactive isotope which is replacing a stable chemical element in a compound that has been introduced into lymphocytes  ( small agranulocytic leukocytes that originate from fetal stem cells and develop in the bone marrow )  rendering them able to be followed or tracked through the body .
measurement in a specified sample of kidney tissue of the amount of corpuscular or electromagnetic radiations emitted consequent to nuclear disintegration of a radioactive isotope which is replacing a stable chemical element in a compound that has been introduced into lymphocytes  ( small agranulocytic leukocytes that originate from fetal stem cells and develop in the bone marrow )  rendering them able to be followed or tracked through the body .
measurement in a specified sample of lymph node tissue of the amount of corpuscular or electromagnetic radiations emitted consequent to nuclear disintegration of a radioactive isotope which is replacing a stable chemical element in a compound that has been introduced into lymphocytes  ( small agranulocytic leukocytes that originate from fetal stem cells and develop in the bone marrow )  rendering them able to be followed or tracked through the body .
a calculated measurement in which the level of radioactivity from a lymphocyte tracer found in lymph node is divided by the level of radioactivity from a lymphocyte tracer found in kidney from the same individual ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter related to tumors of the head and neck ,  a group of biologically similar cancers that start in the lip ,  oral cavity ,  nasal cavity ,  paranasal sinuses ,  pharynx ,  and / or larynx .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter related to tumors arising in the lip ,  oral cavity ,  nasal cavity ,  paranasal sinuses ,  pharynx ,  and / or larynx ,  from the uncontrolled multiplication of cells of the epithelium ,  or of cells showing the particular cytological characteristics of squamous cell differentiation ,  such as the presence of keratin ,  tonofilament bundles ,  or desmosomes ,  structures involved in cell - to - cell adhesion .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter related to tumors arising in the tongue from the uncontrolled multiplication of cells of the epithelium ,  or of cells showing the particular cytological characteristics of squamous cell differentiation ,  such as the presence of keratin ,  tonofilament bundles ,  or desmosomes ,  structures involved in cell - to - cell adhesion .
the length of a straight line passing through the center and connecting opposite points on the circumference of a circle circumscribing a single tumor or an area occupied by tumors arising in the tongue from the uncontrolled multiplication of cells of the epithelium ,  or of cells showing the particular cytological characteristics of squamous cell differentiation ,  such as the presence of keratin ,  tonofilament bundles ,  or desmosomes ,  structures involved in cell - to - cell adhesion .
the largest value in a collection in which each value corresponds to the length of a straight line passing through the center and connecting opposite points on the circumference of a circle circumscribing a single squamous cell tumor of the tongue .
a value or quantity determined by count of tumors arising in the lip ,  oral cavity ,  nasal cavity ,  paranasal sinuses ,  pharynx ,  and / or larynx ,  from the uncontrolled multiplication of cells of the epithelium ,  or of cells showing the particular cytological characteristics of squamous cell differentiation ,  such as the presence of keratin ,  tonofilament bundles ,  or desmosomes ,  structures involved in cell - to - cell adhesion .
a value or quantity determined by count of tumors arising in the lip ,  nasal cavity ,  paranasal sinuses ,  pharynx ,  larynx ,  and / or in the oral cavity excluding the tongue from the uncontrolled multiplication of cells of the epithelium ,  or of cells showing the particular cytological characteristics of squamous cell differentiation ,  such as the presence of keratin ,  tonofilament bundles ,  or desmosomes ,  structures involved in cell - to - cell adhesion .
a value or quantity determined by count of tumors arising in the tongue from the uncontrolled multiplication of cells of the epithelium ,  or of cells showing the particular cytological characteristics of squamous cell differentiation ,  such as the presence of keratin ,  tonofilament bundles ,  or desmosomes ,  structures involved in cell - to - cell adhesion .
a value or quantity determined by count of squamous cell carcinoma tumors of the tongue in which the diameter ,  the length of a straight line passing through the center and connecting opposite points on the circumference of a circle circumscribing a single tumor ,  measures at least 5 millimeters  ( 5 / 1000ths of a meter )  .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of hydrocephalus has caused damage to the brain and / or taken over or interfered with the normal functioning of the body as a whole ,  or specifically of the central nervous system of an organism .
a quantitative assessment of the degree to which the presentation of hydrocephalus has caused damage to the brain and / or taken over or interfered with the normal functioning of the body as a whole ,  or specifically of the central nervous system of an organism ,  for example based on the number of dilated cerebral ventricles and degree to which they are dilated .
the difference in the pulse pressure of an individual between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of the stomach ,  the curved ,  muscular ,  saclike structure that is an enlargement of the alimentary canal between the esophagus and the small intestine and that temporarily holds food and secretes proteases and strong acids to aid in food digestion .
measurement of any lesion in the stomach .
measurement of an organ lesion which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
measurement of a stomach lesion which is not neoplastic in origin .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of a stomach tumor .
measurement of the distance a stomach tumor has penetrated into or through the adjoining tissue .
the length of a straight line passing through the center and connecting opposite points on the circumference of a circle circumscribing a single tumor or an area occupied by tumors of the stomach .
a quantification of tumors on or in the stomach or a specified sample of stomach tissue ,  as determined by count .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display chronic experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  at a point in time or develop chronic eae within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display ,  i .e . ,  are manifesting symptoms of or have been diagnosed with ,  chronic experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  at a point in time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of chronic experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  ( eae )  appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
a calculated measurement of the degree to which a change in the size of the remaining kidney after surgical removal of the other kidney can be attributed to compensatory growth ,  calculated as the ratio of the normalized weight of a single kidney at the time of surgical removal divided by the similarly normalized weight of the single remaining kidney at a specified period of time after removal .
the quantification of any parameter having to do with the state or quality of being on the verge of death or in the process of dying .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a noxious ,  toxic or disease - producing stimulus to the observation of symptoms of moribundity ,  the state or quality of being on the verge of death or in the process of dying .
a calculated measurement in which the difference in the volume of blood delivered to and / or exiting from the kidneys per unit time between two points in time or two conditions is divided by the weight  ( heaviness or degree to which a body is drawn toward the earth by gravity )  of one or both kidneys ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement of the degree to which the blood vessels of the kidneys impede the flow of blood through them .
a measurement that has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the degree to which the blood vessels of the kidneys impede the flow of blood through them .
the difference in renal vascular resistance between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
a calculated measurement of the slope ,  the ratio of vertical change to horizontal change ,  of the line of a graph designating the change in renal vascular resistance in response to a drug or other condition which causes constriction or reduction of the interior diameter of blood vessels .
a calculated value in which the value representing the entire amount of all proteins excreted in the urine is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and by extension to the size of the organism .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of the leukemia disease state ,  or to the official determination of leukemia as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a disease - producing stimulus and the observation of symptoms of leukemia ,  any of a group of progressive ,  malignant diseases of the blood - forming organs ,  marked by distorted proliferation and development of leukocytes and their precursors in the blood and bone marrow .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of a lymphoma ,  or to the official determination of lymphoma as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of a t - cell lymphoma ,  or to the official determination of t - cell lymphoma as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a disease - producing stimulus and the observation of symptoms of t - cell lymphoma .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display lymphomas at a point in time or develop lymphomas within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display t - cell lymphomas at a point in time or develop t - cell lymphomas within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of individuals in a study population which display ,  i .e . ,  are manifesting symptoms of or have been diagnosed with ,  t - cell lymphomas at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of t - cell lymphoma appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of a lymphoma or of a lymphoma disease state .
the enumeration ,  i .e .measurement of the total number ,  of defects or lesions of the internal elastic lamina which are not hyperplastic or neoplastic in origin in a specified sample of artery .
the amount of plasma that perfuses the kidneys per unit time .
a calculated measurement in which the effective renal plasma flow rate  ( erpf )  is divided by weight  ( i .e .
a calculated measurement of the amount of plasma that perfuses the renal tubules per unit time ,  derived by measurement of the clearance rate of a non - metabolizable solute such as para - aminohippurate  ( pah )  .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of plasma that perfuses the kidneys per unit time .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more nucleic acids in the liver ,  the large ,  dark - red organ located in the cranial portion of the abdomen of vertebrates ,  the functions of which include storage and filtration of blood ;  secretion of bile ;  detoxification of noxious substances ;  conversion of sugars into glycogen ;  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ;  and synthesis of serum proteins .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  of which the liver is formed or composed .
measurement of the amount of messenger ribonucleic acids  ( mrna )  which specifically codes for the amino acid sequence of the enzyme glutathione s - transferase - placental form  ( gst - p )  in a specified sample of liver .
measurement of the amount of messenger ribonucleic acids  ( mrna )  which specifically codes for the amino acid sequence of the enzyme gamma - glutamyltranspeptidase  ( ggt )  in a specified sample of liver .
measurement of the amount of messenger ribonucleic acids  ( mrna )  which specifically codes for the amino acid sequence of the enzyme o - 6 - methylguanine - dna methyltransferase  ( mgmt )  in a specified sample of liver .
any measurement related to a morphological or physiological parameter ,  such as the amount or composition ,  of acute phase proteins in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
any measurement related to a morphological or physiological parameter ,  such as the amount or composition ,  of cytokines in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
any measurement related to a morphological or physiological parameter ,  such as the amount or composition ,  of interleukins in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of interleukin - 6  ( il6 )  in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of interleukin - 6  ( il6 )  in plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of interleukin - 6  ( il6 )  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of murinoglobulin 1  ( mug1 )  in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of murinoglobulin 1  ( mug1 )  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of murinoglobulin 1  ( mug1 )  in plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the quantity determined by count of the number of animals in a group of neonates ,  products of one gestation produced at one birth by a multiparous mammal ,  that survive and are alive at birth .
the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more lipids in brain ,  the portion of the central nervous system enclosed within the cranium which is composed of gray matter and white matter and is the primary center for the regulation and control of bodily activities ,  receiving and interpreting sensory impulses ,  and transmitting information to the muscles and body organs .
the amount of sterol ,  any of a group of steroids with a long  ( 8 to 10 carbons )  aliphatic side - chain at position 17 and at least one alcoholic group ,  in a specified sample of brain .
the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  in a specified sample of brain .
the amount of phytosterol ( s )  in a specified sample of brain .
the amount of campesterol ,  a phytosterol  ( molecular formula c28h48o )  whose chemical structure is similar to that of cholesterol ,  in a specified sample of brain .
the amount of sitosterol ,  a phytosterol  ( molecular formula c29h50o )  with chemical structures similar to that of cholesterol ,  in a specified sample of brain .
the amount of sterol ,  any of a group of steroids with a long  ( 8 to 10 carbons )  aliphatic side - chain at position 17 and at least one alcoholic group ,  in a specified sample of liver .
the amount of sitosterol ,  a phytosterol  ( molecular formula c29h50o )  with chemical structures similar to that of cholesterol ,  in a specified sample of liver .
the amount of campesterol ,  a phytosterol  ( molecular formula c28h48o )  whose chemical structure is similar to that of cholesterol ,  in a specified sample of liver .
the amount of phytosterol ( s )  in a specified sample of liver .
the amount of sitosterol ,  a phytosterol  ( molecular formula c29h50o )  with chemical structures similar to that of cholesterol ,  in a specified sample of plasma .
the amount of campesterol ,  a phytosterol  ( molecular formula c28h48o )  whose chemical structure is similar to that of cholesterol ,  in a specified sample of plasma .
the amount of phytosterol ( s )  in a specified sample of plasma .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the most distal portion of the foreleg of a quadruped ,  i .e . ,  the segment of the foreleg upon which an individual stands and walks .
ennumeration of the bones of the toes ,  that is ,  the digits that form the most distal portion of the front foot of a quadruped .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the most distal portion of the hind leg of a quadruped ,  i .e . ,  the segment of the hind leg upon which an individual stands and walks .
ennumeration of the bones of the toes ,  that is ,  the digits that form the most distal portion ,  of the hind foot of a quadruped .
a value or quantity determined by count of squamous cell carcinoma tumors of the tongue in which the diameter ,  the length of a straight line passing through the center and connecting opposite points on the circumference of a circle circumscribing a single tumor ,  measures at least 3 millimeters  ( 3 / 1000ths of a meter )  .
any measurement that has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight of only one of the kidneys ,  the paired organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
any measurement that has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight of both  ( the complete set of two )  of the kidneys ,  the paired organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
a calculated measurement in which the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of only the single right kidney is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percent ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and by extension to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight after removal from the body but without desiccation of only the left kidney is divided by the total weight of the body and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percent ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the value for the volume of blood delivered to and / or exiting from the kidneys per unit time is divided by the weight  ( heaviness or degree to which an object is drawn toward the earth by gravity )  of one or both kidneys ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the amount of cartilage oligomeric matrix protein  ( comp )  ,  a noncollagenous extracellular matrix protein that serves as a marker of cartilage turnover ,  in a specified sample of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
the amount of cartilage oligomeric matrix protein  ( comp )  ,  a noncollagenous extracellular matrix protein that serves as a marker of cartilage turnover ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of cartilage oligomeric matrix protein  ( comp )  ,  a noncollagenous extracellular matrix protein that serves as a marker of cartilage turnover ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any measurement of the action of defensive burying ,  the typical rodent behavior of displacing bedding material with vigorous treading - like movements of their forepaws and shoveling movements of their heads directed towards a noxious stimulus that appears to pose a near and immediate threat .
the number ,  i .e .the quantity determined by count ,  of separate instances of the experimental subject coming nearer in position to the source of an unpleasant ,  response - causing factor ,  such as an electric shock device ,  before that organism begins the activity of defensive burying .
measurement of the total length of experiment time that an animal spends in the activity of defensive burying .
measurement of the length of time between the introduction of ,  or an experimental subject's first encounter with ,  a stimulus and commensement of the activity of defensive burying by that subject .
measurement of the size of the total three dimensional space occupied by nonremodeling tumorous lesions in the liver .
measurement of the size of the total three dimensional space occupied by remodeling tumorous lesions in the liver .
a calculated measurement in which difference in the mean arterial blood pressure between two or more dosages of a drug or chemical which reduces the interior diameter of blood vessels is divided by difference in the logarithm of the applied dosages and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
measurement of the length of a straight line passing through the center and connecting opposite points on the circumference of a circle delineating the outer limits of a glomerulosclerotic lesion .
a calculated measurement in which the diameter of kidney glomerular injury is divided by the value of the mean arterial blood pressure and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  for example to give an index of kidney damage relative to the level of hypertension .
a calculated measurement in which the volume of urine voided during a specified period of time is divided by the total weight or heaviness of the body ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
any quantification of a function of or process in the brain ,  one of the two components of the central nervous system .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of the central nervous system ,  i .e . ,  the brain and / or spinal cord .
measurement of the physical form or structure of one or more of the cavities filled with cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more brain ventricles ,  the cavities filled with cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the physical form or structure of one or more of the cavities filled with cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
a calculated measurement in which the width ,  i .e . ,  the linear extent from side to side ,  of one or more brain ventricles is divided by the width of the whole brain and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of the spinal cord ,  the thick ,  whitish cord of nerve tissue that extends from the medulla oblongata down through the spinal column and from which the spinal nerves branch off to various parts of the body .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the spinal cord ,  the thick ,  whitish cord of nerve tissue that extends from the medulla oblongata down through the spinal column and from which the spinal nerves branch off to various parts of the body .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the spinal cord ventral horn ,  one of the hornlike projections of gray matter into the white matter of the spinal cord .
a measurement of the two - dimensional extent of a plane through the spinal cord ventral horn ,  one of the hornlike projections of gray matter into the white matter of the spinal cord .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the two - dimensional extent of a plane through the spinal cord ventral horn ,  one of the hornlike projections of gray matter into the white matter of the spinal cord .
a calculated measurement in which the value representing the area of the spinal cord vental horn that demonstrates histological staining for the mhc class ii rt1a molecule is divided by value representing the total area of the spinal cord ventral horn ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any quantitation of the molecules ,  atoms and / or ions which constitute the chemical make - up of the spinal cord .
any quantification of one or more of the major histocompatibility complex  ( mhc )  class ii molecules of the spinal cord .
the number of motor neurons  ( efferent neurons that convey impulses from the central nervous system to muscles ,  glands ,  or other effector tissues )  in a specified sample .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more cells of the nervous system .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the number of motor neurons  ( efferent neurons that convey impulses from the central nervous system to muscles ,  glands ,  or other effector tissues )  in a specified sample .
a calculated measurement in which the total number of motor neurons found on the damaged side of the spinal cord is divided by total number of motor neurons found on the undamaged side of the spinal cord and presented as the base 10 logarithm of the resulting value .
any quantification of a function of or process in the central nervous system ,  i .e .
a measurement based on scoring the severity ,  for example on a scale of 0 - 4 ,  of spike and wave discharges ,  a series of regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharges in the brain .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the number of lymphocytes expressing the cd8 antigen on their surface in a specified volume of whole blood .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes expressing both a relatively high amount of surface cd45rc antigen and surface cd8 antigen is divided by the number of lymphocytes expressing both a relatively low amount of surface cd45rc antigen and surface cd8 antigen ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes expressing both a relatively low amount of surface cd45rc antigen and surface cd8 antigen is divided by the total number of lymphocytes expressing surface cd8 antigen ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the number of new cases of experimental diabetes mellitus appearing in a study population during a specified period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display experimental diabetes mellitus at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a disease - producing stimulus and the observation of symptoms of experimental diabetes mellitus ,  diabetes induced experimentally by administration of various diabetogenic agents or by removal of all or part of the pancreas .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a disease - producing stimulus and the observation of symptoms of type 2 diabetes mellitus  ( t2dm )  .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a disease - producing stimulus and the observation of symptoms of type 1 diabetes mellitus  ( t1dm )  .
measurement of the physical form or structure of one or more blood vessels ,  the network of muscular tubes that carry blood through the body .
any quantitation of the molecules ,  atoms and / or ions which constitute the chemical make - up of the wall of the aorta ,  the layered tissue which encloses and constitutes the structural component of the great artery arising from the left ventricle from which the systemic arterial system proceeds .
the amount of elastin in a specified sample of aorta wall tissue .
the amount of collagen in a specified sample of aorta wall tissue .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the molecules ,  atoms and / or ions which constitute the chemical make - up of the wall of the aorta .
a calculated measurement in which the weight after dessication of the extracellular elastin in a specified sample of aorta wall is divided by the total weight after dessication of that sample of aorta wall ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the weight after dessication of the extracellular elastin in a specified sample of aorta wall is divided by the weight of extracellular collagen in that sample of aorta wall ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the total amount of protein extracted from within the cells of the aortic wall in a specified sample of aorta .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a disease - producing or otherwise toxic stimulus and the death of the subject ,  i .e .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter related to tumors arising in the oral cavity ,  i .e .
a value or quantity determined by count of tumors arising in the mouth from the uncontrolled multiplication of cells of the epithelium ,  or of cells showing the particular cytological characteristics of squamous cell differentiation ,  such as the presence of keratin ,  tonofilament bundles ,  or desmosomes ,  structures involved in cell - to - cell adhesion .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of the pyometritis disease state ,  i .e .
a rating ,  usually expressed numerically and based on the degree to which certain qualities or conditions are present ,  of the degree to which the presentation of the pyometritis disease state ,  i .e .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display pyometritis at a point in time or develop pyometritis within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display pyometritis at a specified point in time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that develop pyometritis within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement of one or more tumors arising from cells or tissues of the nervous system ,  the organ system which ,  along with the endocrine system ,  correlates the adjustments and reactions of the organism to its internal and external environment via transmission of information ,  in the form of electrochemical impulses ,  throughout the body .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display neurilemmoma at a point in time or develop neurilemmoma within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display trigeminal nerve neurilemmoma at a point in time or develop trigeminal nerve neurilemmoma within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display trigeminal nerve neurilemmomas at a point in time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that develop trigeminal nerve neurilemmomas within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of neurilemmomas ,  or to the official determination of neurilemmomas as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a disease - producing stimulus and the observation of trigeminal nerve neurilemmomas  -   tumors originating in the myelin sheath of the trigeminal nerve ,  either of the fifth pair of cranial nerves which function as the chief sensory nerves of the face and the motor nerves of the muscles of mastication .
any quantification related to neurilemmoma ,  a tumor originating in a myelin nerve sheath and arising from schwann cells .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of the trichinosis disease state ,  i .e .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the degree to which the presentation of the trichinosis disease state ,  i .e .
measurement of the total number of adult ,  that is ,  fully developed ,  trichinella spiralis nematode worms recovered from a specified sample of small intestine from an infected subject .
a calculated value representing the base ten logarithm of the total number of adult trichinella spiralis nematode worms recovered from a specified sample of small intestine from an infected subject .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display a specified infection at a point in time or develop a specified infection within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display a specified parasitic infection at a point in time or develop a specified parasitic infection within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display an infection with the parasite toxoplasma gondii at a point in time or develop an infection with the parasite toxoplasma gondii within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of individuals in a study population which display toxoplasma gondii brain cysts ,  small capsulelike sacs enclosing colonies of toxoplasma gondii in the brain ,  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of toxoplasma gondii brain cysts ,  small capsulelike sacs enclosing colonies of toxoplasma gondii in the brain ,  appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the amount of anti - toxoplasma antibodies in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
the amount of anti - toxoplasma antibodies in a specified sample of serum  ( the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the number of new cases of unilateral left - sided renal agenesis ,  the failure to develop the left kidney ,  appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display unilateral left - sided renal agenesis ,  the failure to develop the left kidney ,  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the difference in blood glucose level area under curve  ( blood glucose auc )  between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
the difference in mean arterial blood pressure between two points in time or two conditions expressed as a percentage  ( the proportion or rate per hundred parts )  .
average slope of the line defined by the change in heart rate  ( the number of contractions of the cardiac ventricles per unit of time )  relative to the change in mean arterial blood pressure  ( the average force the blood exerts on an artery wall )  over time and / or in response to a change in conditions .
maximum ,  largest or steepest slope of the line defined by the change in heart rate  ( the number of contractions of the cardiac ventricles per unit of time )  relative to the change in mean arterial blood pressure  ( the average blood pressure within an artery over a specified period of time )  over time and / or in response to a change in conditions .
the difference in serum insulin level between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of triglycerides in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement in which the value for the amount of insulin in a specified sample of serum is multiplied by the value for the level of glucose in a corresponding sample of blood from the same individual at the same point in time and / or under the same conditions .
the amount of uric acid ,  a heterocyclic compound of carbon ,  nitrogen ,  oxygen ,  and hydrogen , the end product of purine catabolism ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of uric acid ,  a heterocyclic compound of carbon ,  nitrogen ,  oxygen ,  and hydrogen , the end product of purine catabolism ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a qualitative or semi - quatitative assessment of the likelihood of developing stomach tumors over time ,  based on the occurrence of such tumors in idividual subjects grouped by age .
the difference in the entire weight of the body of an organism between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
any measurement of the alteration ( s )  in body weight over time .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the psychophysiological phenomena such as involuntary motor and autonomic reactions ,  evidenced by an individual in reaction to a sudden ,  unexpected and usually loud noise .
a measurment of the neurological phenomenon in which a weaker prestimulus  ( prepulse )  inhibits the reaction of an organism to a subsequent strong startling stimulus  ( pulse )  ,  that is ,  a measurement of the reduction in the amplitude of the startle movement caused by an acoustic stimulus / insult following a prepulse .
the amount of sterol ,  any of a group of steroids with a long  ( 8 to 10 carbons )  aliphatic side - chain at position 17 and at least one alcoholic group ,  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of sterol ,  any of a group of steroids with a long  ( 8 to 10 carbons )  aliphatic side - chain at position 17 and at least one alcoholic group ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of sterol ,  any of a group of steroids with a long  ( 8 to 10 carbons )  aliphatic side - chain at position 17 and at least one alcoholic group ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of one or more phytosterols in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of one or more phytosterols in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the average duration of a single set of spike and wave discharges ,  regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharges in the brain ,  in a series of episodes separated by normal brain activity ,  i .e .
measurement of the maximum deviation from the baseline position of the electrical signal during a series of regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharges in the brain .
measurement of the maximum deviation from the baseline position of the electrical signal during a series of regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharges in the brain .
measurement of the number of individual type i spike - and - wave discharge cycles occurring per second .
measurement of the number of individual type ii spike - and - wave discharge cycles occurring per second .
measurement of the number of periods of type i spike - and - wave discharges occurring per unit of time .
measurement of the number of periods of type ii spike - and - wave discharges occurring per unit of time .
a measurement based on scoring the severity ,  for example on a scale of 0 - 4 ,  of type i spike and wave discharges ,  a series of regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharges in the brain characterized by immediate ,  bilaterally symmetric discharges ,  generalized over the cortex ,  lasting longer than type ii ,  and displaying an upward polarity in the spikes .
a measurement based on scoring the severity ,  for example on a scale of 0 - 4 ,  of type ii spike and wave discharges ,  a series of regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharges in the brain characterized by local occipital - parietal discharges that are shorter and have less clear waves than spike - wave discharge type i and display an downward polarity in the spikes .
measurement of the cumulated duration of type i spike and wave discharges occurring per unit of time during a series of regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharge episodes in the brain .
measurement of the cumulated duration of type ii spike and wave discharges occurring per unit of time during a series of regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharge episodes in the brain .
measurement of the average duration of a single set of type i spike and wave discharges ,  regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharges in the brain ,  in a series of episodes separated by normal brain activity ,  i .e .
measurement of the average duration of a single set of type ii spike and wave discharges ,  regular ,  symmetrical ,  generalized abnormal electrical discharges in the brain ,  in a series of episodes separated by normal brain activity ,  i .e .
any quantitation of the molecules ,  atoms and / or ions which constitute the chemical make - up of the brain ,  the portion of the central nervous system enclosed within the cranium which is composed of gray matter and white matter and is the primary center for the regulation and control of bodily activities ,  receiving and interpreting sensory impulses ,  and transmitting information to the muscles and body organs .
any quantitation of the molecules ,  atoms and / or ions which constitute the chemical make - up of a specified tissue or set of tissues .
a measurement of the amount of neurotensin receptor 1 ,  the high afffinity g - protein coupled receptor of the neuropeptide hormone neurotensin ,  in a specified sample of brain expressed relative to the weight of total protein in that sample .
the fat found attached to the underside of the skin in the abdominal area ,  in mammals between the thorax  ( i .e . ,  the diaphram )  and the pelvis .
a calculated measurement in which the value for the creatinine clearance is divided by the total weight of both kidneys  ( the paired organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes )  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the number of new cases of poorly differentiated malignant colorectal tumors appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of well differentiated malignant colorectal tumors appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display well differentiated malignant colorectal tumors at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display poorly differentiated malignant colorectal tumors at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
a value or quantity determined by count of well differentiated malignant colorectal tumors ,  abnormal growths of tissue in the large intestine resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function ,  which display the properties of anaplasia ,  invasiveness and metastasis ,  but which also display specific physical forms ,  physiologic functions ,  and chemical properties characteristic of the tissue .
a value or quantity determined by count of poorly differentiated malignant colorectal tumors ,  abnormal growths of tissue in the large intestine resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function ,  which display the properties of anaplasia ,  invasiveness and metastasis ,  and do not display specific physical forms ,  physiologic functions ,  and chemical properties characteristic of the tissue .
a measurement of the two - dimensional extent of a planar region comprising the superficial or external aspect of one or more well differentiated malignant colorectal tumors ,  abnormal growths of tissue in the large intestine resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function ,  which display the properties of anaplasia ,  invasiveness and metastasis ,  but which also display specific physical forms ,  physiologic functions ,  and chemical properties characteristic of the tissue .
a measurement of the two - dimensional extent of a planar region comprising the superficial or external aspect of one or more poorly differentiated malignant colorectal tumors ,  abnormal growths of tissue in the large intestine resulting from uncontrolled ,  progressive multiplication of cells and serving no physiological function ,  which display the properties of anaplasia ,  invasiveness and metastasis ,  and do not display specific physical forms ,  physiologic functions ,  and chemical properties characteristic of the tissue .
the heaviness or degree to which the entire body of an organism at the point of or shortly after birth is drawn to the earth by gravity .
the heaviness or degree to which the entire body of a fetus is drawn to the earth by gravity .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the direct progeny of a parent or parents .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the unborn young of a viviparous vertebrate in the postembryonic period ,  after major anatomical structures have been outlined .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of an organism at the point of or shortly after birth .
any measurement of an organ which is part of the complex of female gonads ,  associated ducts ,  and external genitalia concerned with sexual reproduction .
any measurement of the placenta ,  the membranous vascular organ in female mammals that permits metabolic interchange between fetus and mother .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the placenta ,  the membranous vascular organ in female mammals that permits metabolic interchange between fetus and mother .
the heaviness of the placenta ,  that is ,  the degree to which it is drawn to the earth by gravity .
the heaviness of the placenta ,  that is ,  the degree to which it is drawn to the earth by gravity ,  measured after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the heaviness of the placenta ,  that is ,  the degree to which it is drawn to the earth by gravity ,  measured after desiccation .
the heaviness of the placenta ,  i .e . ,  the degree to which it is drawn to the earth by gravity ,  measured on the 21st day after insemination .
the amount in a specified sample of blood of one or more types of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  ,  the most abundant class of antibodies found in blood serum and lymph .
the amount in a specified sample of blood of one or more types of immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
the amount in a specified sample of blood of one or more types of immunoglobulin d  ( igd )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
the amount in a specified sample of blood of one or more types of immunoglobulin a  ( iga )  ,  one of the most prevalent of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of one or more types of immunoglobulin a  ( iga )  ,  one of the most prevalent of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
the amount in a specified sample of plasma of one or more types of immunoglobulin a  ( iga )  ,  one of the most prevalent of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of one or more types of immunoglobulin d  ( igd )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
the amount in a specified sample of plasma of one or more types of immunoglobulin d  ( igd )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
the amount in a specified sample of blood of one or more types of immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body which is concentrated in the lungs ,  skin ,  and mucous membranes and ,  as a primary defense against environmental antigens ,  can trigger anaphylactic hypersensitivity .
the amount in a specified sample of plasma of one or more types of immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body which is concentrated in the lungs ,  skin ,  and mucous membranes and ,  as a primary defense against environmental antigens ,  can trigger anaphylactic hypersensitivity .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of one or more types of immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body which is concentrated in the lungs ,  skin ,  and mucous membranes and ,  as a primary defense against environmental antigens ,  can trigger anaphylactic hypersensitivity .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of one or more types of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  ,  the most abundant class of antibodies found in blood serum and lymph .
the amount in a specified sample of plasma of one or more types of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  ,  the most abundant class of antibodies found in blood serum and lymph .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of one or more types of immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
the amount in a specified sample of plasma of one or more types of immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
any measurement of the properties of one or more autoantibodies .
measurement of the amount of one or more autoantibodies in a specified sample of blood .
measurement of the amount of one or more autoantibodies in a specified sample of plasma .
measurement of the amount of one or more autoantibodies in a specified sample of serum .
the entire amount in a specified sample of serum of all types of immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  ,  one of the five classes of antibodies produced by the body .
a calculated measurement of the amount in a specified sample of serum of rheumatoid factor that is expressed as an immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  molecule in which the level of antibody is normalized to an arbitrary reference value or reference standard .
a calculated measurement of the amount in a specified sample of serum of rheumatoid factor that is expressed as an immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  molecule in which the level of antibody is normalized to an arbitrary reference value or reference standard .
the entire amount in a specified sample of serum of all types and subclasses of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  ,  the most abundant class of antibodies found in blood serum and lymph .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of one of the subclasses of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  ,  the most abundant class of antibodies found in blood serum and lymph .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of the g1 subclass of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  ,  the most abundant class of antibodies found in blood serum and lymph .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of the g2a subclass of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  ,  the most abundant class of antibodies found in blood serum and lymph .
any measurement of one or more mononuclear cells ,  i .e .
determination of the number of mononuclear cells ,  i .e .
determination of the number of mononuclear cells ,  i .e .
the amount of interferon gamma  ( ifng )  secreted  ( i .e .
determination of the number of mononuclear cells that secrete  ( i .e .
any quantitation of the proteins and / or peptides which contribute to the chemical make - up of the spinal cord .
any quantitation of the messenger rnas which contribute to the chemical make - up of the spinal cord .
the amount in a specified sample of spinal cord of the messenger rna  ( mrna )  which codes for beta - 2 microglobulin  ( b2m )  .
the amount in a specified sample of spinal cord of the messenger rna  ( mrna )  which codes for the b chain of the q subcomponent of complement component 1  ( c1qb )  ,  a major constituent of the human complement subcomponent c1q .
the amount in a specified sample of spinal cord of the messenger rna  ( mrna )  which codes for cd74 ,  a cell surface protein which associates with class ii major histocompatibility complex  ( mhc )  and is an important chaperone that regulates antigen presentation for the immune response .
the amount in a specified sample of spinal cord of the messenger rna  ( mrna )  which codes for rt1 - b ,  a major histocompatibility complex class ii antigen involved in antigen processing and presentation .
the amount in a specified sample of spinal cord of the beta - 2 microglobulin  ( b2m )  protein .
the amount in a specified sample of spinal cord of the b chain of the q subcomponent of complement component 1  ( c1qb )  protein ,  a major constituent of the human complement subcomponent c1q .
the amount in a specified sample of spinal cord of cd74 ,  a cell surface protein which associates with class ii major histocompatibility complex  ( mhc )  and is an important chaperone that regulates antigen presentation for the immune response .
the amount in a specified sample of spinal cord of rt1 - b ,  a major histocompatibility complex class ii antigen involved in antigen processing and presentation .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of a movement of all or part of the body which originated with ,  or was undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of an organism's free will or choice .
any measurement of the use of uttered sounds for auditory communication .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the use of uttered sounds for auditory communication .
a calculated measurement of the level of tameness / aggression which is a composite of numerical values based on movement / posture measurements such as counts or duration of freezing ,  attack and escape movements ,  and boxing posture ,  and on vocalization measurements such as counts or duration of squeaking or screaming .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of the enterocolitis disease state ,  i .e .
a measurement of enterocolitis severity which is derived from a combination of multiple measurements and / or an objective or subjective ranking or rating system according to a specified formula or set of criteria .
a calculated measurement in which  .the number of kidney glomeruli displaying an abnormal  ( i .e . ,  pathogenic )  crescentic morphology is divided by the number of kidney glomeruli displaying normal morphology ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the amount of albumin in a specified sample of plasma .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of albumin in a specified sample of plasma is divided by the difference between the amount of total protein and the amount of albumin in that same sample of plasma  ( that is ,  albumin /  ( total protein  -  albumin )  )  ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of abnormal ,  repetitive ,  generally non - productive movements which may or may not result in damage to the individual .
any measurement of self mutilation ,  i .e .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of self mutilation ,  i .e .
a measurement of the severity of self mutilation ,  the act of injuring one's own body to the extent of cutting off or permanently destroying a limb or other essential part of a body ,  which is derived from a combination of multiple measurements and / or an objective or subjective ranking or rating system according to a specified formula or set of criteria .
any measurement the physical form or structure of one or more joints ,  any of the articulations between bones which may be immovable ,  slightly movable or freely movable .
the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of a joint .
the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of the joint between the leg and foot in which the tibia and fibula articulate with the talus .
the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of the ankle joint of the left hindleg of a quadruped ,  that is ,  the leg on the left side of the body and farthest from the head .
the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of the ankle joint of the right hindleg of a quadruped ,  that is ,  the leg on the right side of the body and farthest from the head .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the diameter of one or more ankle joints .
a calculated measurement of the difference in left rear ankle joint diameter between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
a calculated measurement of the difference in right rear ankle joint diameter between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
a calculated measurement of the difference in the total of the right and left rear ankle joint diameters added together between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction of the sums in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of liver disease has caused pain or damage ,  established one or more lesions or infectious colonies ,  and / or taken over or interfered with the normal functioning of the body as a whole ,  or of one or more organs ,  tissues ,  cells or subcellular mechanisms of an organism .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of granulomas in the liver has caused pain or damage ,  established lesions ,  and / or taken over or interfered with the normal functioning of the body as a whole ,  or of one or more organs ,  tissues ,  cells or subcellular mechanisms of an organism .
a measurement of liver granuloma severity which is derived from a combination of multiple measurements and / or an objective or subjective ranking or rating system according to a specified formula or set of criteria .
a calculated measurement in which urine chloride ion excretion rate is divided by the total weight of the body ,  i .e . ,  the heaviness or the degree to which the body of the organism is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which urine sodium excretion rate is divided by the total weight of the body ,  i .e . ,  the heaviness or the degree to which the body of the organism is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of an electrolyte ,  that is ,  a substance that dissociates into ions ,  excreted in the urine per unit time .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of heart rate ,  the number of contractions of the cardiac ventricles per unit of time .
the difference between two points in time or two conditions in heart rate expressed as the ratio of the low frequency r - r interval component of the power spectrum analysis to the high frequency r - r interval component of the power spectrum analysis ,   expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of a pituicyte ,  a glial - type cell of the posterior pituitary whose main role is to assist in the storage and release of neurohypophysial hormones such as oxytocin and vasopressin .
any quantitation of the molecules ,  atoms and / or ions which constitute the chemical make - up of the tissue ( s )  of the heart left ventricle .
the amount in a specified sample of tissue from the heart left ventricle ,  of natriuretic peptide a  ( nppa )  ,  a powerful vasodilator and peptide hormone secreted mainly by heart muscle cells and involved in control of extracellular fluid volume and electrolyte homeostasis .
the amount of renin in a specified sample of kidney tissue .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of all or part of the pituitary gland ,  the small ,  oval endocrine gland attached to the base of the vertebrate brain and consisting of an anterior and posterior lobe ,  the secretions of which control the other endocrine glands and influence growth ,  metabolism ,  and maturation .
a calculated measurement corresponding to the power to which the number 2 must be raised to obtain the specified value for the wet weight of the pituitary gland .
measurement of the capacity of an individual's body to transport and utilize oxygen ,  measured as volume of oxygen per unit of time .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of insulin ,  the fuel - regulating peptide hormone which is formed from proinsulin in the beta cells of the pancreatic islets and which promotes the storage of glucose and the uptake of amino acids ,  increases protein and lipid synthesis ,  and inhibits lipolysis and gluconeogenesis ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a calculated measurement to estimate the effect of insulin on net glucose disposal  ( insulin sensitivity )  in an organism ,  calculated as 1 /  ( log [ fasting plasma insulin in uu / ml ]   +  log [ fasting blood glucose in mg / dl ]  )  ,  i .e . ,  the inverse of the logarithm of the product of fasting plasma insulin level and fasting blood glucose level .
a calculated measurement in which the number of apoptotic bodies found in a specified sample of remodelling liver tumorous lesions is divided by the number of viable neoplastic hepatocytes in the same sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of apoptotic bodies found in a specified sample of nonremodelling liver tumorous lesions is divided by the number of viable neoplastic hepatocytes in the same sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the amount of a solution of bisphenol a that is consumed as a drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  per unit time .
the lowest per week intake rate of a fructose solution containing bisphenol a consumed as a drink .
the highest per week intake rate of a fructose solution containing bisphenol a consumed as a drink .
the number of calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed as food by an organism per period of time .
the entire number of calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed as food by an organism per period of time ,  i .e . ,  the calorie intake rate from all food sources .
the number of calories derived from fructose consumed in food by an organism per period of time ,  i .e . ,  the calorie intake rate for fructose only .
any measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by fat in the body of an organism .
measurement of the size of the entire three dimensional space occupied by fat in the body of an organism .
measurement of the size of the entire three dimensional space occupied by the layer of fat located just beneath the skin of an organism .
measurement of the size of the entire three dimensional space occupied by the fat inside the major body cavity or cavities of an organism ,  especially the fat which surrounds and cushions the internal organs .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the lean tissue of an organism ,  that is ,  of the tissue that is not fat / adipose tissue or bone .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the lean tissue of an organism ,  that is ,  of the tissue that is not fat / adipose tissue or bone .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by all of the accumulated lean tissue in the body of an organism .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the fat deposits in the liver of an organism .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by fat deposits in the liver of an organism .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by fat deposits in the liver of an organism .
a calculated measurement in which the size of the three dimensional space occupied by fat deposits in the liver of an organism is divided by the total size of the three dimensional space occupied by the liver of that organism ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the liver ,  the large ,  dark - red organ located in the cranial portion of the abdomen of vertebrates ,  just behind or below the diaphragm ,  the functions of which include storage and filtration of blood ;  secretion of bile ;  detoxification of noxious substances ;  conversion of sugars into glycogen ;  synthesis and breakdown of fats and temporary storage of fatty acids ;  and synthesis of serum proteins .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the kidney .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the kidney .
measurement of the heaviness of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the kidney ,  that is ,  the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
measurement of the heaviness of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated specifically with the left kidney ,  that is ,  the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
measurement of the heaviness of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated specifically with the right kidney ,  that is ,  the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the left kidney is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
amount of a fructose solution consumed as a drink per unit time .
amount of a fructose solution containing bisphenol a consumed as a drink per unit time .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the amount of a solution of sucrose consumed as a drink in a specified period of time .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the amount of a solution of sucrose consumed in a specified period of time .
a calculated measurement in which the volume of a sucrose solution consumed is divided by the total volume of all liquids / drinks consumed ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of characteristics related to the function of or processes in the components of the system responsible for receiving and processing information about an organism's environment and controlling behavior .
any measurement related to the function of or processes involved in the perception of sound .
measurement of the lowest sound volume  ( e .g .
any measurement of the calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed as food by an organism .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed as food by an organism per period of time .
measurement of the entire number of calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed as food by an organism .
a calculated measurement in which the number of calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed as food by an organism during a specified period of time or under specified conditions ,  is divided by corresponding difference in body weight during that same period of time or under the same conditions ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of the weight of food consumed by an organism ,  i .e .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight of food consumed by an organism ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of food consumed by an organism during a specified period of time or under specified conditions ,  is divided by corresponding difference in body weight during that same period of time or under the same conditions ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed as food by an organism during a specified period of time or under specified conditions ,  is divided by the total weight of the body of the organism ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of food consumed by an organism during a specified period of time or under specified conditions ,  is divided by the total weight of the body of the organism ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
measurement of the entire weight of food consumed by an organism ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement in which the difference in the weight of the body of an organism between two time points or two conditions is divided by the total weight of the body of the organism ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the difference in the weight of the body of an organism between two time points or two conditions is divided by the total weight of the body of the organism at the second time point or under the second condition ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the difference in the weight of the body of an organism between two time points or two conditions is divided by the total weight of the body of the organism at the first time point or under the first condition ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the food consumed by an organism .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the food consumed by an organism .
any measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the entire amount of food consumed by an organism .
any quantification of the ability of a protein of the kidney to accomplish an effect ,  e .g .
any quantification of the ability of a kidney enzyme ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement in which the level of catalase enzyme activity in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the weight of total protein in that sample .
a calculated measurement in which the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase enzyme activity in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the weight of total protein in that sample .
a calculated measurement in which the level of glutathione reductase  ( gsr )  enzyme activity in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the weight of total protein in that sample .
a calculated measurement in which the level of glutathione peroxidase enzyme activity in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the weight of total protein in that sample .
a calculated measurement in which the level of glutathione - s - transferase enzyme activity in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the weight of total protein in that sample .
a calculated measurement in which the level of superoxide dismutase enzyme activity in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the weight of total protein in that sample .
a calculated measurement in which the level of paraoxonase 1 enzyme activity in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the weight of total protein in that sample .
a calculated measurement in which the level of glutathione peroxidase enzyme activity in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the level of glutathione reductase enzyme activity in that same sample .
a calculated measurement in which the level of superoxide dismutase enzyme activity in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the level of catalase enzyme activity in that same sample .
a calculated measurement in which the level of superoxide dismutase enzyme activity in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the level of glutathione peroxidase enzyme activity in that same sample .
a calculated measurement in which the level of superoxide dismutase enzyme activity in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the level of paraoxonase 1 enzyme activity in that same sample .
the amount of glutathione in a specified sample of kidney tissue .
the amount of malondialdehyde in a specified sample of kidney tissue .
a calculated measurement in which the level of protein carbonyl  ( pco )  derivatives in a specified sample of kidney is divided by the total amount of protein in the sample .
the amount of platinum ,  the chemical element with atomic number 78 ,  in a specified sample of kidney tissue .
the amount of enzymatic activity of gamma - glutamyltransferase  ( ggt )  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of enzymatic activity of gamma - glutamyltransferase  ( ggt )  in a specified sample of plasma .
the amount of enzymatic activity of gamma - glutamyltransferase  ( ggt )  in a specified sample of serum .
the amount of enzymatic activity of creatine kinase  ( ck )  enzyme in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of enzymatic activity of creatine kinase  ( ck )  enzyme in a specified sample of plasma .
the amount of enzymatic activity of creatine kinase  ( ck )  enzyme in a specified sample of serum .
a calculated measurement in which the value of the enzymatic activity of aspartate aminotransferase enzyme in a specified sample of serum is divided by the value of the enzymatic activity of alanine aminotransferase in the same sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the amount of lipid peroxidation end products in a specified sample of kidney tissue .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by a single kidney glomerulus .
any measurement of the calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed by an organism .
any measurement of the calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed as drink by an organism .
the number of drink - derived calories consumed by an organism per unit time .
the number of calories derived from a fructose solution consumed as a drink by an organism per unit time .
the total ,  full or entire number of drink - derived calories consumed by an organism .
the entire number of calories consumed by an organism per unit time ,  regardless of source .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display one or more non - tumorous lesion ( s )  of the liver at a point in time or develop such lesions within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display one or more non - tumorous lesion ( s )  of the kidney at a point in time or develop such lesions within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display one or more non - tumorous lesion ( s )  of the spleen at a point in time or develop such lesions within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display liver edema ,  that is ,  an abnormal accumulation of fluid in intercellular spaces of the liver ,  at a point in time or develop liver edema within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that develop liver edema ,  that is ,  an abnormal accumulation of fluid in intercellular spaces of the liver ,  within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display liver edema ,  that is ,  an abnormal accumulation of fluid in intercellular spaces of the liver ,  at a point in time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display liver hyperemia ,  that is ,  an abnormal accumulation of blood in the liver ,  at a point in time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that develop liver hyperemia ,  that is ,  an abnormal accumulation of blood in the liver ,  within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display liver hyperemia ,  that is ,  an abnormal accumulation of blood in the liver ,  at a point in time or develop liver hyperemia within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display liver parenchymal degeneration ,  that is ,  deterioration of the functional  ( as opposed to supporting or connective )  tissue or cells of the liver especially with a resulting loss of function ,  at a point in time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that develop liver parenchymal degeneration ,  that is ,  deterioration of the functional  ( as opposed to supporting or connective )  tissue or cells of the liver especially with a resulting loss of function ,  within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display liver parenchymal degeneration ,  that is ,  deterioration of the functional  ( as opposed to supporting or connective )  tissue or cells of the liver especially with a resulting loss of function ,  at a point in time or develop liver edema within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display kidney edema ,  that is ,  an abnormal accumulation of fluid in intercellular spaces of the kidney ,  at a point in time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that develop kidney edema ,  that is ,  an abnormal accumulation of fluid in intercellular spaces of the kidney ,  within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display kidney edema ,  that is ,  an abnormal accumulation of fluid in intercellular spaces of the kidney ,  at a point in time or develop kidney edema within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display kidney tubular degeneration ,  that is ,  deterioration of the renal tubules especially with a resulting loss of function ,  at a point in time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that develop kidney tubular degeneration ,  that is ,  deterioration of the renal tubules especially with a resulting loss of function ,  within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display kidney tubular degeneration ,  that is ,  deterioration of the renal tubules especially with a resulting loss of function ,  at a point in time or develop kidney tubular degeneration within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display fibrosis of the spleen ,  that is ,  an abnormal condition in which fibrous connective tissue spreads over or replaces the normal tissue in the spleen ,  at a point in time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that develop fibrosis of the spleen ,  that is ,  an abnormal condition in which fibrous connective tissue spreads over or replaces the normal tissue in the spleen ,  within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display fibrosis of the spleen ,  that is ,  an abnormal condition in which fibrous connective tissue spreads over or replaces the normal tissue in the spleen ,  at a point in time or develop splenic fibrosis within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display myeloid leukemia ,  a form of leukemia characterized by the increased and unregulated growth of predominantly myeloid  ( that is ,  non - lymphocytic )  cells in the bone marrow and the accumulation of these cells in the bone marrow and / or blood ,  at a point in time or develop myeloid leukemia within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of individuals in a study population which display myeloid leukemia ,  a form of leukemia characterized by the increased and unregulated growth of predominantly myeloid  ( that is ,  non - lymphocytic )  cells in the bone marrow and the accumulation of these cells in the bone marrow and / or blood ,  at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of myeloid leukemia ,  a form of leukemia characterized by the increased and unregulated growth of predominantly myeloid  ( that is ,  non - lymphocytic )  cells in the bone marrow and the accumulation of these cells in the bone marrow and / or blood ,  appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
calculated measurement of a difference in the maximum arterial blood pressure ,  that is the pressure at the point of maximal contraction of the heart ,  between two points in time ,  one during the day and the other at night ,   expressed as a number  ( positive or negative )  ,  not as a ratio or percentage relative to another quantity .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display cerebrovascular lesions at a point in time or develop cerebrovascular lesions within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a calculated measurement in which the value for high density lipoprotein cholesterol and the value for low density lipoprotein cholesterol in a specified sample of plasma are subtracted from the value for total cholesterol in that same sample .
the number of individuals in a study population which display stomach tumors at a specified point in time ,  compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which develop new instances of stomach tumors during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
a measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population displaying one or more tumors of the stomach  ( the curved ,  muscular ,  saclike structure that is an enlargement of the alimentary canal between the esophagus and the small intestine ,  and that temporarily holds food and secretes proteases and strong acids to aid in food digestion )  at a point in time or developing stomach tumors within a determined period of time ,  are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement of the complex postural reaction by which an organism can assume an optimal position when there has been a departure from it ,  for example ,  the ability of an animal to turn its body in space so that its paws or feet are pointed at the ground during a fall or to return to sternal recumbency after being placed on its back or side .
the amount of ethanol -  - the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene -  - in the blood at the point in time when a subject again demonstrates the ability to assume an optimal position when there has been a departure from it ,  after that ability has been lost due to alcohol consumption .
the amount of time between the time point at which a subject loses the ability to assume an optimal position when there has been a departure from it and the time point at which the subject again demonstrates that ability .
the amount of ethanol -  - the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene -  - in the blood at the point in time when a subject displays a loss of the ability to balance ,  that is ,  to maintain bodily equilibrium and postural control to keep the body's center of mass within its base of support ,  due to consumption of ethanol .
the amount of ethanol -  - the colorless ,  volatile ,  flammable liquid ,  ch3ch2oh ,  produced by yeast fermentation of carbohydrates or synthesized by hydration of ethylene -  - in the blood at the point in time when a subject again demonstrates the ability to balance ,  that is ,  to maintain bodily equilibrium and postural control to keep the body's center of mass within its base of support ,  after that ability has been lost due to ethanol consumption .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the ability of an organism to maintain bodily equilibrium and postural control ,  the motor control that stabilizes the body in space by integrating sensory input about body position  ( somatosensory ,  visual ,  and vestibular input )  with motor output to coordinate the action of muscles and keep the body's center of mass within its base of support .
the difference between two conditions or between two points in time  ( expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity )  of the angle of inclination ,  i .e . ,  the degree of divergence from the horizontal ,  of a surface at the point when a subject sitting or standing on that surface can no longer maintain its balance or remain in a stable position .
the angle of inclination ,  i .e . ,  the degree of divergence from the horizontal ,  of a surface at the point when a subject sitting or standing on that surface can no longer maintain its balance or remain in a stable position .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a stimulus or effector and the timepoint at which the angle of inclination ,  i .e . ,  the degree of divergence from the horizontal ,  of a surface at the moment when a subject sitting or standing on that surface can no longer maintain its balance or remain in a stable position ,  is the same as the value of that angle before the introduction of the stimulus or effector .
a calculated measurement in which difference in the mean arterial blood pressure between two or more dosages of a drug or chemical which reduces or increases the interior diameter of blood vessels is divided by difference the applied dosages and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of insulitis of the pancreas ,  that is ,  lymphocytic infiltration of the islets of langerhans ,  suggesting an inflammatory or immunologic reaction .
a calculated measurement in which the number of pancreatic islets that have been infiltrated with inflammatory cells and also display abnormalities of and / or damage to the beta cells is divided by the total number of pancreatic islets ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of pancreatic islets that have been infiltrated with inflammatory cells but do not display abnormalities of the beta cells is divided by the total number of pancreatic islets ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of pancreatic islets that display infiltration of inflammatory cells only into the surrounding ducts and blood vessels ,  without immune cells inside or immediately adjacent to the islets ,  is divided by the total number of pancreatic islets ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of pancreatic islets that display infiltration of inflammatory cells in the surrounding ducts and blood vessels and immediately surrounding the islets but without immune cells within the islets ,  is divided by the total number of pancreatic islets ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement of pancreatic insulitis which is derived from a combination of multiple measurements and / or an objective or subjective ranking or rating system according to a specified formula or set of criteria ,  for example ,  based on the degree of inflammatory infiltration into the pancreatic islets .
ratio of the wall thickness  ( wt )  of an artery to outer diameter  ( od )  of that artery at that location ,  usually expressed as a percentage ,  i .e .
an approximation of the weight or heaviness of the body of an organism based on non - weight measurements such as magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  .
any measurement of the amount of time a subject spends running on a treadmill ,  a piece of equipment consisting of a continuously moving belt which allows the action of walking or running without the entire body moving forward .
a measurement of the amount of time a subject spends running on a treadmill ,  a piece of equipment consisting of a continuously moving belt which allows the action of walking or running without the entire body moving forward ,  before exhaustion ,  that is ,  privation of energy with consequent inability to respond to stimuli .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes expressing both a relatively high amount of surface cd45rc antigen and surface cd8 antigen is divided by the total number of lymphocytes expressing surface cd8 antigen ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement of the total extent of the two - dimensional surface of the liver occupied by tumorous foci ,  or a measurement of the total extent of a two - dimensional cross - section through the liver occupied by tumorous foci .
a measurement of the total extent of the two - dimensional surface of the liver occupied by hepatocellular carcinomas ,  or a measurement of the total extent of a two - dimensional cross - section through the liver occupied by hepatocellular carcinomas .
a measurement of the total extent of the two - dimensional surface of the liver occupied by tumorous nodules ,  or a measurement of the total extent of a two - dimensional cross - section through the liver occupied by tumorous nodules .
the portion of the cross - sectional area of a bone that corresponds to the area occupied by cancellous or spongy bone ,  the inner ,  less dense ,  more metabolically active type of osseous tissue made up of a network of tiny lattice - shaped spicules often containing marrow .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the heaviness of any of the small ,  oval or round bodies ,  located along the lymphatic vessels ,  that supply lymphocytes to the bloodstream and remove bacteria and foreign particles from the lymph .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one or more lymph nodes is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thereby normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one or more lymph nodes after removal from the body and subsequent dessication is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thereby normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one or more lymph nodes after removal from the body but without dessication is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thereby normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one or more inguinal lymph nodes after removal from the body but without dessication is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thereby normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one or more inguinal lymph nodes after removal from the body and subsequent dessication is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thereby normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one or more inguinal lymph nodes is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thereby normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
measurement of the heaviness of one or more inguinal lymph nodes after removal from the body and subsequent desiccation .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of the tongue ,  the movable muscular organ on the floor of the mouth whigh is the chief organ of taste ,  and aids in mastication ,  swallowing ,  and speech .
measurement of a lesion in the tongue .
measurement of a lesion of the tongue which is or has the potential to become a tumor ,  that is ,  a neoplasm or new growth of tissue in which cell multiplication is more or less uncontrolled and progressive .
measurement of a lesion of the tongue which is not neoplastic in origin .
measurement of one or more tumors of the tongue .
the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of a tumor found on or in the tongue .
a value or quantity determined by count of tunors in a specified sample of tongue .
a calculated measurement in which the number of calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed as drink by an organism during a specified period of time or under specified conditions ,  is divided by corresponding difference in body weight during that same period of time or under the same conditions ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed as drink by an organism during a specified period of time or under specified conditions ,  is divided by the total weight of the body of the organism ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the calories  ( usually large calories ,  kilogram calories ,  dietary calories ,  or nutritional calories )  consumed as drink by an organism per period of time .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of any parameter related to the process whereby drink ,  any liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  is taken in for utilization by the body .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight or heaviness of the drink ,  that is ,  the liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  consumed in a specified period of time .
a measurement  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  consumed per unit time .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the amount of drink ,  that is ,  a liquid that is brought into the mouth and swallowed to quench thirst ,  for nourishment ,  etc . ,  consumed in a specified period of time .
the complete or entire amount of bilirubin in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the number of granulocytes categorized as mature ,  segmented neutrophils in a specified volume of blood .
the number of granulocytes categorized as band neutrophils in a specified volume of blood .
a calculated measurement in which the number of mature ,  segmented neutrophil granulocytes is divided by the number of all white blood cells in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of band neutrophil granulocytes is divided by the total number of all white blood cells in a specified sample of peripheral venous blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of white blood cells that have not been identified as a specific type of cell is divided by the total number of leukocytes in a specified sample of blood ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the number of white blood cells that have not been identified or categorized as a specific type of cell in a specified sample of blood .
any value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of leukocytes ,  largely colorless blood corpuscles capable of ameboid movement ,  whose chief function is to protect the body against microorganisms and other disease - causing entities .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of albumin in a specified sample of plasma is divided by the total amount of protein in that same sample of plasma ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of a lesion - producing stimulus ,  sucn as a trauma or a drug ,  and the observation of symptoms of cerebrovascular lesion or stroke .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the number of lymphocytes expressing the cd4 antigen on their surface in a specified sample of blood .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes expressing both a relatively high amount of surface cd45rc antigen and surface cd4 antigen is divided by the number of lymphocytes expressing both a relatively low amount of surface cd45rc antigen and surface cd4 antigen ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
measurement of the number of lymphocytes in a specified sample of blood which express both the surface cd45rc antigen and surface cd4 antigen .
measurement of the number of lymphocytes in a specified sample of blood which express both a relatively low amount of surface cd45rc antigen and surface cd4 antigen .
measurement of the number of lymphocytes in a specified sample of blood which express both a relatively high amount of surface cd45rc antigen and surface cd4 antigen .
a calculated measurement in which the number of white blood cells of one or more specific types in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of white blood cells in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of white blood cells of one or more specific types in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of lymphocytes in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of b cells in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of lymphocytes in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of t cells in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of lymphocytes in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of natural killer  ( nk )  cells in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of lymphocytes in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes expressing the cd4 antigen on their surface in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of lymphocytes in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes expressing the cd8 antigen on their surface in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of lymphocytes in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes expressing the rt6 .1 antigen on their surface in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of lymphocytes in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes expressing the cd25 antigen on their surface in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of lymphocytes in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes in a specified sample of blood which express both a relatively high amount of surface cd45rc antigen and surface cd4 antigenin a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of lymphocytes in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes in a specified sample of blood which express both a relatively low amount of surface cd45rc antigen and surface cd4 antigenin a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of lymphocytes in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display a viral infection at a point in time or develop a viral infection within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display encephalitis at a point in time or develop encephalitis within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display any disease ,  lesion or abnormality of the nervous system at a point in time or develop a disease ,  lesion or abnormality of the nervous system within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display any disease ,  lesion or abnormality of any of the organs of the digestive tract at a point in time or develop such a disease ,  lesion or abnormality within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any quantitative or qualitative value which is the result of an act of assessing a state or property related to a disease ,  lesion or abnormality of the nervous system in a single individual or a group of individuals ,  based on direct observation or experimental manipulation .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of a disease ,  lesion or abnormality of the nervous system ,  or to the official determination of a disease ,  lesion or abnormality of the nervous system as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of an infection or to the official determination of an infection as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of a viral infection or to the official determination of a viral infection as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display encephalitis resulting from a herpes simplex virus  ( hsv )  infection at a point in time or develop hsv encephalitis within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display encephalitis resulting from a herpes simplex virus  ( hsv )  infection at a specified point in time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that develop encephalitis resulting from a herpes simplex virus  ( hsv )  infection at within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of encephalitis ,  an inflammation of the brain ,  or to the official determination of encephalitis as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
any measurement which expresses a quantity related to the beginning ,  early stages or development of herpes simplex  ( hsv )  encephalitis ,  or to the official determination of hsv encephalitis as the cause of the observed symptom ( s )  .
measurement of the length of time between introduction of the herpes simplex virus  ( hsv )  and the observation of symptoms of hsv - induced encephalitis ,  an acute  ( or rarely chronic )  inflammatory process of the brain caused by simplexvirus infections which may be fatal .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of epinephrine ,  a catecholamine which can act as a neurotransmitter ,  a stress hormone ,  a stimulator of the sympathetic nervous system and a vasoconstrictor ,  found in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the difference in the amount of epinephrine in a specific volume of plasma between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of norepinephrine ,  a catecholamine which can act as a neurotransmitter ,  a stress hormone and a vasoconstrictor ,  found in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the difference in the amount of norepinephrine in a specific volume of plasma between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of a morphological or physiological parameter of non - neoplastic lesions in the kidney .
a calculated measurement in which the area occupied by renal protein casts is divided by the total ,  combined area of the outer stripe of the kidney outer medulla and the kidney cortex ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the number of offspring in a litter .
any quantitative measurement of death ,  mortality or fatality occuring in the direct progeny of a parent or parents .
a calculated measurement in which the number of zygotes or embryos which die between implantation of the fertilized egg and birth is divided by the total number of offspring in the litter ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of fetuses which die shortly prior to birth is divided by the total number of offspring in the litter ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of offspring which are born alive but die shortly following birth is divided by the total number of offspring in the litter ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the length of a straight line from the anus to the genitalia ,  that is ,  to the base of the genital tubercle in the fetus ,  to the genital bud in neonatal animals ,  or to the base of the penis or vagina in older individuals .
the count of mammary areolae  ( pigmented area normally surrounding the nipple )  and / or nipples  ( mammary papilla ,  that is ,  the projection on the anterior surface of the mammary organ which in females gives outlet to the lactiferous ducts )  located on the thorax and / or abdomen of mammals .
the total weight of two perineal muscles ,  the levator ani  ( one or both of a pair of muscles of the pelvic diaphragm that stretches across the bottom of the pelvic cavity like a hammock ,  supporting the pelvic organs )  and the bulbocavernosus muscle  ( a muscle that covers the bulb of the penis in the male and the bulbus vestibuli in the female )  ,  presented as a single measurement .
the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of the thyroid gland .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the thyroid gland .
the weight of the thyroid gland ,  that is ,  its heaviness or degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
the weight of the thyroid gland ,  that is ,  its heaviness or degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  after desiccation of the excised organ .
the weight of the thyroid gland ,  that is ,  its heaviness or degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation .
the weight of the bulbourethral gland ,  that is ,  its heaviness or degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
the weight of the bulbourethral gland ,  that is ,  its heaviness or degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  after desiccation of the excised organ .
the weight of the bulbourethral gland ,  that is ,  its heaviness or degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  after removal from the body but without desiccation .
a measurement of degree of abnormality of a stomach tumor based on histological assessment of the differentiation state of the cells comprising the tumor .
measurement of the amount of globulins ,  a broad category of plasma proteins ,  in a specified sample of blood .
measurement of the amount of globulins ,  a broad category of plasma proteins ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of albumin in a specified sample of blood .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of albumin in a specified sample of blood is divided by the amount of globulin in that same sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of globulin in a specified sample of blood .
a calculated measurement of the relative difference in the activity of the renal sympathetic nerve between a treated state and a control state or between two points in time ,  expressed as a percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the liver after excision from the body but without dessication is divided by total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one or both lungs after removal from the body but without dessication is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the total ,  combined weight of both lungs after removal from the body but without dessication is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated value in which the weight of the heart after removal from the body but without dessication is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the spleen after removal from the body but without dessication is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the brain after removal from the body but without dessication is divided by the total weight of the body of the organism ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the combined weight of both adrenal glands after removal from the body but without dessication is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one individual adrenal gland after removal from the budy but without dessication is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the uterus ,  the hollow muscular organ in female mammals in which the fertilized ovum normally becomes embedded and in which the developing embryo and fetus is nourished .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of one or both uterine horns .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of the uterus ,  the hollow muscular organ in female mammals in which the fertilized ovum normally becomes embedded and in which the developing embryo and fetus is nourished .
measurement of the weight of the uterus ,  that is ,  its heaviness or the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the weight of the uterus ,  that is ,  its heaviness or the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
measurement of the weight of the uterus ,  that is ,  its heaviness or the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  after dessication of the excised organ .
measurement of the weight of the uterus ,  that is ,  its heaviness or the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity ,  after removal from the body but without dessication .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the uterus is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the uterus after removal from the body but without dessication is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
the amount of pyruvate in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of pyruvate in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of pyruvate in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any measurement of creatine in urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
the amount of creatine in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
the amount of creatine eliminated from the body in the urine per unit time .
any measurement of taurine in urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
measurement of the amount of taurine in a specified sample of urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
the amount of taurine eliminated from the body in the urine per unit time .
amount of metformin consumed as or in a drink per unit time .
the amount of glutathione in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of glutathione in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of glutathione in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of oxidized glutathione  ( gssg )  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of oxidized glutathione  ( gssg )  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of oxidized glutathione  ( gssg )  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of reduced glutathione  ( gsh )  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of reduced glutathione  ( gsh )  in a specified sample of serum .
the amount of reduced glutathione  ( gsh )  in a specified sample of plasma .
the amount of ezymatic activity of glutathione peroxidase in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of ezymatic activity of glutathione peroxidase in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of ezymatic activity of glutathione peroxidase in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of ezymatic activity of superoxide dismutase  ( sod )  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of ezymatic activity of superoxide dismutase  ( sod )  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of ezymatic activity of superoxide dismutase  ( sod )  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of malondialdehyde in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of malondialdehyde in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of malondialdehyde in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any quantification of the amounts or proportions of proteins ,  lipids ,  minerals ,  nutrients ,  gases ,  or other substances ina specified sample of liver tissue .
the amount of malondialdehyde in a specified sample of liver tissue .
the number of individuals in a study population which display ,  i .e . ,  are manifesting symptoms of or have been diagnosed with ,  retinopathy at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of retinopathy appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display retinopathy at a point in time or develop retinopathy within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the amount of retinol in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of retinol in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of retinol in a specified volume of blood .
a calculated measurement in which the difference between the contractile force of a blood vessel in response to a vasoconstrictor and the baseline contractile force exerted by that vessel in the absence of any external stimuli ,  is divided by the baseline contractile force measurement and the result expressed as a percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the difference between the contractile force of a blood vessel in response to a specified dosage of phenylephrine and the baseline contractile force exerted by that vessel in the absence of any external stimuli ,  is divided by the baseline contractile force measurement and the result expressed as a percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the difference between the contractile force of a blood vessel in response to a specified dosage of potassium chloride and the baseline contractile force exerted by that vessel in the absence of any external stimuli ,  is divided by the baseline contractile force measurement and the result expressed as a percentage .
measurement of an organism's ,  organ's ,  tissue's or cell's capacity to respond ,  such as by a change in activity ,  state or condition ,  to potassium chloride ,  the salt of the potassium cation  ( k +  )  and the chlorine / chloride anion  ( cl -  )  .
a calculated value for the concentration of potassium chloride  ( kcl )  at which the energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of kcl is halfway between the baseline value and the highest achievable value of such kcl - induced contractile energy .
a calculated value for logarithm of the concentration of potassium chloride  ( kcl )  at which the energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of kcl is halfway between the baseline value and the highest achievable value of such kcl - induced contractile energy .
a calculated value for the concentration of a vasoconstrictor at which the energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of the stimulus is halfway between the baseline value and the highest achievable value of such stimulus - induced contractile energy .
a calculated value for logarithm of the concentration of a vasoconstrictor at which the energy produced by the active reduction in the diameter of a blood vessel in response to the application of the stimulus is halfway between the baseline value and the highest achievable value of such stimulus - induced contractile energy .
measurement of the amount of any xenobiotic in a specified sample of blood .
measurement of the amount of paracetamol  ( also known as acetaminophen )  ,  an analgesic and antipyretic with effects similar to aspirin but only weakly antiinflammatory ,  in a specified sample of blood .
measurement of the amount of paracetamol  ( also known as acetaminophen )  ,  an analgesic and antipyretic with effects similar to aspirin but only weakly antiinflammatory ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of paracetamol  ( also known as acetaminophen )  ,  an analgesic and antipyretic with effects similar to aspirin but only weakly antiinflammatory ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of paracetamol  ( also known as acetaminophen )  ,  an analgesic and antipyretic with effects similar to aspirin but only weakly antiinflammatory ,  in a specified sample of blood .
a calculated measurement in which a series of measurements of the amount of paracetamol  ( also known as acetaminophen )  in a specified volume of blood is plotted against time for a single individual and the extent of the two dimensional region bounded by the curve and the axes of the graph is determined .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of paracetamol  ( also known as acetaminophen )  ,  an analgesic and antipyretic with effects similar to aspirin but only weakly antiinflammatory ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a calculated measurement in which a series of measurements of the amount of paracetamol  ( also known as acetaminophen )  in a specified volume of plasma is plotted against time for a single individual and the extent of the two dimensional region bounded by the curve and the axes of the graph is determined .
measurement of the amount of ezymatic activity of glutamate dehydrogenase ,  the enzyme which catalyzes the interconversion of glutamate and alpha - ketoglutarate  ( ie ,  the reversible conversion of glutamic acid to 2 - oxoglutaric acid and ammonia )  ,  in a specified sample of blood .
measurement of the amount of ezymatic activity of glutamate dehydrogenase ,  the enzyme which catalyzes the interconversion of glutamate and alpha - ketoglutarate  ( ie ,  the reversible conversion of glutamic acid to 2 - oxoglutaric acid and ammonia )  ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of ezymatic activity of glutamate dehydrogenase ,  the enzyme which catalyzes the interconversion of glutamate and alpha - ketoglutarate  ( ie ,  the reversible conversion of glutamic acid to 2 - oxoglutaric acid and ammonia )  ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the lipids of which the liver is formed or composed .
the quantification of any morphological or physiological parameter of one or more proteins  ( complex high molecular weight organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages )  or peptides  ( low molecular weight compounds composed of at least two amino acids joined by peptide linkages )  in liver .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the proteins or peptides of which the liver is formed or composed .
the amount of glutathione in a specified sample of liver tissue .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of glutathione in a specified sample of liver tissue .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of oxidized glutathione in a specified sample of liver is divided by the total weight of that liver ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of reduced glutathione in a specified sample of liver is divided by the total weight of that liver ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of malondialdehyde in a specified sample of liver tissue .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of malondialdehyde in a specified sample of liver is divided by the total weight of that liver ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the weight after removal from the body but without dessication of only one of the pair of female sexual glands in which the oocytes are formed .
total weight after removal from the body but without dessication ,  of one or both of the female sexual glands in which the oocytes are formed .
the total weight after removal from the body but without dessication ,  of both of the female sexual glands in which the oocytes are formed .
the weight after removal from the body and subsequent dessication ,  of one or both of the female sexual glands in which the oocytes are formed .
weight after removal from the body but without dessication of only the ovary located on the right side of the organism .
weight after removal from the body but without dessication of only the ovary located on the left side of the organism .
the total weight after removal from the body and subsequent dessication ,  of both of the female sexual glands in which the oocytes are formed .
the weight after removal from the body and subsequent dessication ,  of only one of the pair of female sexual glands in which the oocytes are formed .
a calculated measurement in which the number of male offspring in a litter is divided by the total number of  ( male and female )  offspring in that litter ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the quantity determined by count of the number of animals in a group of neonates ,  products of one gestation produced at one birth by a multiparous mammal ,  that are male .
the thickness or depth of the ventral / anterior wall of the left ventricle of the heart at the end of diastole ,  that is ,  when the heart muscle is maximally relaxed .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the left ventricle of the heart is divided by its area at end - diastole ,  that is ,  when the heart muscle is maximally relaxed ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of a protein that catalyzes chemical reactions of other substances without itself being destroyed or altered upon completion of the reaction ( s )  in a specified sample of blood .
measurement of the amount of an enzyme in a specified sample of blood ,  measured as the quantitation of the protein itself ,  rather than as the assessment of catalytic activity attributable to that enzyme .
measurement of the amount of renin activity in a specified sample of plasma  ( the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended )  via the direct immunologic detection of the renin protein in the sample and subsequent conversion of the protein level to an activity level .
measurement of the amount of renin activity in a specified sample of serum  ( the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any measurement of the movement of blood into ,  through or out of the heart .
measurement of the speed at which blood flows into the ventricle during passive filling ,  that is ,  during the period when the blood flows from the atrium to the ventricle due to gravity rather than as a result of active contraction of the atrium .
an echocardiographic measurement of the amount of time between the maximum 'e point' ,  that is ,  the maximum velocity of passive blood flow from the atrium to the ventricle ,  and the return to baseline at the end of early mitral flow .
measurement of the decrease in transmitral blood flow velocity per unit time or the rate at which the velocity of passive blood flow from the atrium to the ventricle decreases over time as the ventricle fills and the atrium empties ,  calculated as the slope of transmitral velocity vs time .
the number of times food is consumed ,  that is ,  the number of discrete occurrences of food consumption ,  during a specified period of time .
the average number of times per day that an individual animal approaches and / or eats from a self - feeder ,  a device designed to deliver food to an animal or a group of animals in an automated or semi - automated fashion .
any measurement of the physical dimensions ,  proportions ,  magnitude ,  or extent of individual parasitic organisms in a specified sample of an infected tissue or bodily fluid ,  or in the entire body of the host .
the distance between the two ends ,  that is ,  the extent of the longest dimension ,  of an individual parasitic organism in a specified sample of an infected tissue or bodily fluid from the host organism .
the age ,  that is ,  the duration of the life of the mother at the point in time when her initial offspring is born ;  the earliest or youngest age at which a specific individual has given birth .
a calculated measurement of the average number of skeletal muscle fibers in a cross - section of muscle divided by the corresponding area of that muscle sample .
the weight or the measure of the heaviness of the long fusiform muscle of the upper arm  ( or the upper segment of the foreleg of quadrupeds )  located on the anterior surface of the humerus .
the distance between the two ends ,  that is ,  the extent of the longest dimension of all or part of a skeletal muscle ,  one of the striated muscles attached to bones .
the distance between the two ends ,  that is ,  the extent of the longest dimension ,  of the long fusiform muscle of the upper arm  ( or the upper segment of the foreleg of quadrupeds )  located on the anterior surface of the humerus .
the distance between the two ends ,  that is ,  the extent of the longest dimension ,  of a muscle ,  an organ which contracts to produce movement .
measurement of the amount of a radioactive nucleoside ,  such as tritiated  ( 3h -  )  thymidine ,  incorporated into white blood cells during a specified period of time .
the difference in antibody titer between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
the difference in the logarithm of the antibody titer between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
measurement of the amount of haptoglobin in a specified sample of blood .
measurement of the amount of haptoglobin in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of haptoglobin in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the combined weight of all offspring in a litter ,  that is ,  the products of one gestation produced at one birth by a multiparous mammal ,  at the time of or shortly after birth .
the combined weight of all viable offspring in a litter ,  that is ,  the products of one gestation produced at one birth by a multiparous mammal ,  at the time of or shortly after birth .
any measurement having to do with the artificial stimulation of ovulation ,  that is ,  the planned production of a greater than normal number of ova in an individual female during a single ovulation period ,  and / or the introduction of sperm into the female reproductive tract through means other than normal sexual intercourse .
the number of embryos produced in the process of a single round of superovulation and artificial insemination that have degenerated and are not likely to be viable or to produce offspring if transfered to a recipient .
the number of embryos produced in the process of a single round of superovulation and artificial insemination that are of sufficient quality to transfer from the donor female to a recipient female with a reasonable expectation of producing viable offspring .
the number of female gametes ,  recovered from a donor following a single round of superovulation and artificial insemination ,  that did not undergo fertilization ,  that is ,  the union of male and female gametes to form the diploid zygote ,  leading to development of a new individual .
a count of the total number of female gametes ,  regardless of final status or quality ,  produced in a donor female during a single round of superovulation and artificial insemination .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by tyrosinase  ( tyr )  in a specified sample of blood .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by tyrosinase  ( tyr )  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by tyrosinase  ( tyr )  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological of a muscle fiber ,  any of the cells of skeletal or cardiac muscle tissue .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of a muscle fiber ,  any of the cells of skeletal or cardiac muscle tissue .
any measurementof the physical form or structure of a skeletal muscle fiber ,  a cylindrical multinucleate cell of skeletal muscle tissue containing contracting myofibrils and across which run transverse striations .
the average number of capillaries associated with and / or surrounding an individual skeletal muscle fiber ,  a cylindrical multinucleate cell of skeletal muscle tissue containing contracting myofibrils and across which run transverse striations .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological of the minute vessels connecting arterioles and venules ,  the walls of which act as a semipermeable membrane for interchange of various substances between the blood and tissue fluid .
a calculated measurement in which amount of the alpha fraction of the casein phosphoprotein in a specified sample of milk is divided by corresponding amount of the beta fraction of the casein phosphoprotein ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the difference in hematocrit  ( the percentage of total blood volume that is made up of red blood cells )  between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
a calculated measurement of the relative difference in hematocrit  ( the percentage of total blood volume that is made up of red blood cells )  between a treated state and a control state or between two points in time ,  expressed as a percentage .
the length of time in the cardiac cycle between the end of left ventricular relaxation and the start of left ventricular filling .
the time interval from the completion of the mitral valve closure to the beginning of the aortic valve opening ,  that is ,  the period of contraction during which both the mitral and aortic valves are closed so that the volume of the ventricular space doesn't change .
the enumeration ,  i .e .measurement of the total number ,  of individual ,  fully - developed parasitic organisms in a specified sample of an infected tissue or bodily fluid ,  or in the entire body of the host .
the enumeration ,  i .e .measurement of the total number ,  of individual ,  parasitic organisms in the initial stage of developement found in a specified sample of an infected tissue or bodily fluid ,  or in the entire body of the host .
the enumeration ,  i .e .measurement of the total number of parasite eggs present in a specified sample of host feces ,  the usually solid waste matter discharged from the digestive tract after food has been digested .
the enumeration ,  i .e .measurement of the total number of oocystsin a specified sample of host feces ,  the usually solid waste matter discharged from the digestive tract after food has been digested .
the quantity determined by count of the number of embryos produced in a single pregnancy ,  especially in a multiparous mammal ,  that are living and have the potential to develop into offspring that survive and are alive at birth .
measurement of the unstimulated ,  baseline or lowest possible amount of a radioactive nucleoside ,  such as tritiated  ( 3h -  )  thymidine ,  incorporated into white blood cells during a specified period of time .
measurement of the amount of a radioactive nucleoside ,  such as tritiated  ( 3h -  )  thymidine ,  incorporated into white blood cells during a specified period of time following treatment with a substance that induces mitosis resulting in increased cell proliferation .
any calculated measurement of the absolute or relative difference in antibody titer between two points in time or two conditions .
a calculated measurement of the relative difference in antibody titer between a treated state and a control state or between two points in time ,  expressed as a percentage .
the length of time in the cardiac cycle between the end of right ventricular relaxation and the start of right ventricular filling .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the length of time in the cardiac cycle between the end of left ventricular relaxation and the start of left ventricular filling .
a calculated measurement in which the value of the left ventricular isovolumetric relaxation time is corrected by the square root of the r - r interval  [ ivrt /  ( rr ) 1 / 2 ]  on a simultaneously - recorded ecg .
measurement of the length of time between the closing of the mitral valve  ( the dual - flap valve in the heart that controls blood flow between the left atrium and the left ventricle )  at the end of ventricular filling  ( that is ,  after atrial contraction )  and its opening at the beginning of the next round of ventricular filling .
the time interval from the opening to the closing of the aortic valve  ( mechanical systole )  .
a calculated measurement comprised of the sum of left ventricular isovolumetric contraction time and isovolumetric relaxation time divided by the left ventricular ejection time .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of any cardiovascular disease state ,  causes pain or damage ,  or interferes with the normal functioning of an organism or of any part thereof .
any measurement related to a deviation from or interruption of the normal structure or function of the cardiovascular system that is manifested by a characteristic set of symptoms and signs .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of an arterial disease state ,  causes pain or damage ,  or interferes with the normal functioning of an organism or of any part thereof .
measurement of the degree to which a tear or break in the continuity or configuration of the aorta  ( the great artery arising from the left ventricle and from which the systemic arterial system proceeds )  causes pain or damage ,  or interferes with the normal functioning of an organism or of any part thereof .
the value or quantity determined by count of tears or breaks in the continuity or configuration of the fenestrated layer of elastic tissue that is the outermost part of the intima of an artery .
the value or quantity determined by count of tears or breaks in the continuity or configuration of the internal elastic lamina  ( iel )  of the abdominal aorta and iliac arteries ,  that is ,  the distal segment of the descending aorta and the large arteries that originate from it .
the value or quantity determined by count of tears or breaks in the continuity or configuration of the internal elastic lamina  ( iel )  of the renal arteries ,  that is ,  the ateries which arise from the side of the abdominal aorta and which supply the kidneys with blood .
a measurement of the severity of tears or breaks in the arterial internal elastic lamina  ( iel )  which is derived from a combination of multiple measurements and / or objective or subjective severity scores according to a specified formula or set of criteria .
a calculated measurement in which the weight after dessication of the extracellular elastin in a specified sample of the wall of the aorta is divided by the length  ( that is ,  the distance between the two ends )  of that segment ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement of the existance and severity of a patent ductus arteriosus  ( pda )  when such a measurement is derived from a combination of multiple measurements and / or an objective or subjective ranking or rating system according to a specified formula or set of criteria .
the amount of catecholamine eliminated from the body in the urine per unit time .
the amount of epinephrine eliminated from the body in the urine per unit time .
the amount of norepinephrine eliminated from the body in the urine per unit time .
the quantification of any parameter related to one or more catecholamines ,  any of a group of amines composed of a pyrocatechol molecule and the aliphatic portion of an amine that have important physiological effects as neurotransmitters and hormones ,  in urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
the amount of vanillylmandelic acid eliminated from the body in the urine per unit time .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of one or more catecholamines eliminated from the body in the urine per unit time .
the calculated difference in urine epinephrine excretion rate between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
the calculated difference in urine norepinephrine excretion rate between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
the calculated difference in urine vanillylmandelic acid excretion rate between two points in time or two conditions expressed as the result of the subtraction in and of itself without comparison by ratio with another quantity .
any quantitation of the molecules ,  atoms and / or ions which constitute the chemical make - up of a sample of pancreatic tissue .
any measurement involving the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type of one or more proteins  ( complex high molecular weight organic compounds containing carbon ,  hydrogen ,  oxygen ,  nitrogen ,  and sulfur consisting of alpha - amino acids joined by peptide linkages )  or peptides  ( low molecular weight compounds composed of at least two amino acids joined by peptide linkages )  in a specified tissue or set of tissues .
any measurement involving the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type of one or more proteins or peptides in a specified sample of brain tissue .
any measurement involving the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type of one or more proteins or peptides in a specified sample of tissue from the wall of the aorta .
any measurement involving the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type of one or more proteins or peptides in any sample of pancreas tissue .
any measurement involving the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type of one or more proteins or peptides in a specified sample of tissue derived from the entire pancreas without division or fractionation of the tissue  ( for example separation of the endocrine and exocrine pancreas )  .
any measurement involving the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type of one or more proteins or peptides in a specified sample of tissue derived from one or more pancreatic islets .
any measurement involving the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type of one or more hormones in a specified tissue or set of tissues .
any measurement involving the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type of one or more hormones in a specified tissue or set of tissues .
any measurement involving the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type of one or more peptide hormones in a sample of tissue from the pancreas .
any measurement involving the composition ,  that is ,  the absolute amount ,  relative amount or type of one or more hormones in a sample of tissue from the pancreas .
measurement of the amount of insulin in a sample of tissue from the pancreas without division or fractionation of the tissue  ( for example separation of the endocrine and exocrine pancreas )  .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of insulin in a sample of tissue from the pancreas without division or fractionation of the tissue  ( for example separation of the endocrine and exocrine pancreas )  .
a calculated parameter derived from a a sequence of blood pressure measurements taken sequentially and ordered in time .
a mathematical and statistical variable in a model system that partially or completely characterises the baroreceptor response in a blood pressure time series calculation .
the first order coefficient parameter derived from a blood pressure time series moving average  ( also known as a rolling average ,  running average ,  moving mean ,  or rolling mean )  calculation .
the fractal parameter derived from a blood pressure time series calculation based on a autoregressive fractionally integrated moving average time series model  ( arfima ,  farima ,  or farima )  .
the experimental set point parameter of the blood pressure time series baroreceptor response calculation .
the average exponential scaling factor parameter of the blood pressure time series baroreceptor response calculation .
a parameter based on a blood pressure time series calculation using a first order mechanistic model .
a parameter based on a blood pressure time series calculation using a second order mechanistic model .
the thickness or depth  ( i .e .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of paracetamol  ( also known as acetaminophen )  ,  an analgesic and antipyretic with effects similar to aspirin but only weakly antiinflammatory ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement in which a series of measurements of the amount of paracetamol  ( also known as acetaminophen )   in a specified volume of serum is plotted against time for a single individual and the extent of the two dimensional region bounded by the curve and the axes of the graph is determined .
a value or quantity determined by count of hepatocellular carcinoma tumors in the liver or in a specified sample of liver tissue ,  i .e .
the number of individuals in a study population which display hepatocellular carcinoma at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of new cases of hepatocellular carcinoma appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display hepatocellular carcinoma at a point in time or develop hepatocellular carcinoma within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds with escherichia coli ,  a gram negative rod - shaped bacterium ,  in a specific volume of plasma expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds with escherichia coli ,  a gram negative rod - shaped bacterium ,  in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  a molecule composed of the sugar deoxyribose ,  phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds to one or more types of collagen ,  the fibrous protein constituent of bone ,  cartilage ,  tendon ,  and other connective tissue ,  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that specifically binds to laminin ,  a large polypeptide glycoprotein component of basement membranes ,  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of rheumatoid factor that is expressed as an immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  molecule .
the amount in a specified sample of serum of rheumatoid factor that is expressed as an immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  molecule .
the level of rheumatoid factor that is expressed as an immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  molecule  in a specified sample of serum ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
the amount of rheumatoid factor that is expressed as an immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  molecule in a specified sample of serum ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
measurement of the amount of a specific autoantibody in a specified sample of blood ,  determined as the maximal dilution of the sample at which that antibody can still be detected .
measurement of the amount of an autoantibody in a specified sample .
measurement of the amount of one or more autoantibodies in a specified sample of plasma ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
measurement of the amount of one or more autoantibodies in a specified sample of serum ,  expressed as the last dilution of serum at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of a specific antibody in a specified sample of blood ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of a specific antibody in a specified sample of plasma ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of a specific antibody in a specified sample of serum ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds rat - derived type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount in a specified sample of serum ,  of an immunoglobulin molecule ,  specifically one produced by the immune system of a rat against its own collagen ,  possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds rat - derived type 2 collagen .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds pig - derived type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds pig - derived type 2 collagen in a specified sample of serum expressed as the last dilution of serum at which a positive result could be obtained .
the amount in a specified sample of serum ,  of an immunoglobulin molecule ,  specifically one produced by the immune system of a rat against its own collagen ,  possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds rat - derived type 2 collagen ,  expressed as the last dilution of serum at which a positive result could be obtained .
measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds type 2 collagen in a specified volume of serum expressed as the last dilution of serum at which a positive result could be obtained .
the amount in a specified sample of serum ,  of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds rat - derived type 2 collagen ,  expressed as the last dilution of serum at which a positive result could be obtained .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that specifically binds to laminin ,  in a specified sample of serum expressed as the last dilution of serum at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds to one or more types of collagen ,   the fibrous protein constituent of bone ,  cartilage ,  tendon ,  and other connective tissue ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  in a specified sample of serum ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to double - stranded deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  a molecule composed of two anti - parallel ,  hydrogen - bonded ,  polymeric strands of nucleic acids in which the sugar is deoxyribose and which is also composed of phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to single - stranded deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  a single polymeric strand of nucleic acids in which the sugar is deoxyribose and which is also composed of phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that specifically binds to laminin ,  a large polypeptide glycoprotein component of basement membranes ,  in a specific sample of plasma ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  in a specified sample of plasma ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to double - stranded deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  a molecule composed of two anti - parallel ,  hydrogen - bonded ,  polymeric strands of nucleic acids in which the sugar is deoxyribose and which is also composed of phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of immunoglobulin molecule with an amino acid sequence that binds to single - stranded deoxyribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  a single polymeric strand of nucleic acids in which the sugar is deoxyribose and which is also composed of phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or thymine ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds to one or more types of collagen ,   the fibrous protein constituent of bone ,  cartilage ,  tendon ,  and other connective tissue ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified volume of serum , expressed as the last dilution of serum at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds cattle - derived type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds pig - derived type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule produced by the immune system of a rat and possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds its own type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
a measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds rat - derived type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule produced by the immune system of a rat and possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds its own type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  expressed as the last dilution of plasma at which a positive result could be obtained .
a measurement of the amount of an immunoglobulin molecule possessing a specific amino acid sequence that binds cattle - derived type 2 collagen ,  the main fibrous protein constituent of cartilage ,  in a specified sample of serum ,  expressed as the last dilution of serum at which a positive result could be obtained .
the amount of ash produced by the calcination of bone ,  that is ,  a thermal treatment of bone resulting in thermal decomposition and / or removal of the volatile fraction .
the amount of calcium in a specified sample of bone .
the amount of phosphorus in a specified sample of bone .
measurement of the physical form or structure of the femur metaphysis ,  the segment of the femur that lies between the epiphysis in the femoral neck and the diaphysis  ( shaft )  .
the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of the femur metaphysis measured from one side to the other ,  that is ,  along the mediolateral axis of the bone .
the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of the femur metaphysis measured from front to back ,  that is ,  along the anteroposterior axis of the bone .
the entire number of calories ,  i .e .
any measurement of the degree to which the presentation of a bacterial infection has caused pain or damage ,  or of the degree to which bacteria has established lesions or infectious colonies ,  and / or taken over or interfered with the normal functioning of the body as a whole ,  or of one or more organs ,  tissues ,  cells or subcellular mechanisms of an organism .
a measurement of bacterial infection severity which is derived from a combination of multiple measurements and / or an objective or subjective ranking or rating system according to a specified formula or set of criteria .
a ranking or rating of bacterial infection severity which is based on or derived from the ratio of the number of leukocytes in a sample of mucosal membrane to total number of cells the that sample .
a ranking or rating of bacterial infection severity which is based on or derived from the number and / or size of foci of inflammatory cells  ( that is ,  leukocytes ,  especially neutrophils ,  macrophages ,  monocytes ,  eosinophils ,  and / or basophils )  in a sample of exudate from an infected tissue or organ .
the enumeration ,  i .e .measurement of the total number ,  of bacteria in a specified sample of an infected tissue or bodily fluid ,  or in the entire body of the host .
the enumeration ,  i .e .measurement of the total number ,  of bacterial colony forming units  ( cfus )  in a specified sample of fluid removed from and / or solution used to wash the interior of a cavity in a body or an organ .
the logarithm of the enumeration ,  i .e .
the logarithm of the enumeration ,  i .e .
the logarithm of the enumeration ,  i .e .
the logarithm of the enumeration ,  i .e .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the number of cells  ( all cells and / or cells of a specific type )  in a sample of exudate .
a calculated measurement in which the number of neutrophils in a specified sample of exudate is divided by the total number of cells in that sample of exudate and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the number of monocytes ,  that is ,  mononuclear phagocytic leukocytes ,  in a specified volume of fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  a usually localized ,  protective reaction of tissue to irritation ,  injury or infection ,  characterized by pain ,  redness ,  swelling and sometimes loss of function .
the number of lymphocytes  ( mononuclear ,  nongranular ,  nonphagocytic leukocytes )  in a specified volume of fluid which has escaped from blood vessels and been deposited within tissues or on tissue surfaces as a result of inflammation ,  a usually localized ,  protective reaction of tissue to irritation ,  injury or infection ,  characterized by pain ,  redness ,  swelling and sometimes loss of function .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes in a specified sample of exudate is divided by the total number of cells in that sample of exudate and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of the sense organ in vertebrates specialized for the detection of sound and the maintenance of balance .
any measurement of the middle ear ,   the middle of the three parts of the ear ,  consisting of an air - filled cavity bound externally by the tympanic membrane and containing three ossicles that vibrate in response to sound waves ,  passing the amplified sound to the inner ear .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the middle ear ,   the middle of the three parts of the ear ,  consisting of an air - filled cavity bound externally by the tympanic membrane and containing three ossicles that vibrate in response to sound waves ,  passing the amplified sound to the inner ear .
quantification of the thickness ,  that is the distance from the junction with the underlying bone / tissue to the surface of the membrane ,  of the layer of epithelial cells lining the tympanic cavity .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the physical form or structure of the middle ear ,   the middle of the three parts of the ear ,  consisting of an air - filled cavity bound externally by the tympanic membrane and containing three ossicles that vibrate in response to sound waves ,  passing the amplified sound to the inner ear .
the average of a set of epithelium thickness measurements which were all taken from a single ear of a single experimental subject .
the average of a set of epithelium thickness measurements from both ears of a single experimental subject .
the arithmetic mean of all measured horizontal distances between a test subject and a specific target such as a food reward or a submerged platform as the subject searches for the target .
the sum of the lengths of the lines representing all voluntary movements of an experimental subject within a flat plane parallel to the ground in an apparatus made while attempting to locate a specific target such as a food reward or a submerged platform .
any measurement of interplay ,  contact ,  communication or interchange between two or more organisms originated ,  undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of free will or choice on the part of one or more participants .
the aggregate amount of time within a specified period during which a test subject touches or voluntarily moves or remains close to  ( for example within one centimeter of )  a social stimulus such as another animal of the same species .
the difference in time spent in direct social interaction  ( that is ,   the amount of time within a specified period during which a test subject touches or voluntarily moves or remains close to ,  for example within one centimeter of ,  a social stimulus such as another animal of the same species )  between the first introduction of a social stimulus versus a subsequent reintroduction of the same stimulus .
the amount of free glycerol ,  a trihydroxy sugar alcohol produced by lipolysis of triglycerides in adipose tissue and a precursor for the synthesis of triacylglycerols and phospholipids in the body ,  found in a specific volume of blood .
the amount of free glycerol ,  a trihydroxy sugar alcohol produced by lipolysis of triglycerides in adipose tissue and a precursor for the synthesis of triacylglycerols and phospholipids in the body ,  found in a specific volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of free glycerol ,  a trihydroxy sugar alcohol produced by lipolysis of triglycerides in adipose tissue and a precursor for the synthesis of triacylglycerols and phospholipids in the body ,  found in a specific volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in chylomicron molecules in a specified volume of blood .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in chylomicron molecules in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in chylomicron molecules in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
measurement of the amount of triglyceride  ( any of a group of lipids that are esters formed from one molecule of glycerol and three molecules of one or more fatty acids ,  are widespread in adipose tissue ,  and commonly circulate in the blood in the form of lipoproteins )  carried in lipoprotein particles  ( complex molecules that consist of a protein membrane surrounding a core of lipids )  in a specified volume of blood .
measurement of the amount of triglyceride  ( any of a group of lipids that are esters formed from one molecule of glycerol and three molecules of one or more fatty acids ,  are widespread in adipose tissue ,  and commonly circulate in the blood in the form of lipoproteins )  carried in high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  molecules in a specified volume of blood .
measurement of the amount of triglyceride  ( any of a group of lipids that are esters formed from one molecule of glycerol and three molecules of one or more fatty acids ,  are widespread in adipose tissue ,  and commonly circulate in the blood in the form of lipoproteins )  carried in low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  molecules in a specified volume of blood .
measurement of the amount of triglyceride  ( any of a group of lipids that are esters formed from one molecule of glycerol and three molecules of one or more fatty acids ,  are widespread in adipose tissue ,  and commonly circulate in the blood in the form of lipoproteins )  carried in very low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  molecules in a specified volume of blood .
measurement of the amount of triglyceride  ( any of a group of lipids that are esters formed from one molecule of glycerol and three molecules of one or more fatty acids ,  are widespread in adipose tissue ,  and commonly circulate in the blood in the form of lipoproteins )  carried in chylomicron molecules in a specified volume of blood .
a value resulting from the quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of a blood - derived lipoprotein ,  any of a class of complex molecules found in blood that consist of a protein membrane surrounding a core of lipids .
the diameter ,  that is the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of a blood - derived lipoprotein particle ,  a complex molecule found in blood that consists of a protein membrane surrounding a core of lipids .
the diameter ,  that is the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of blood - derived high - density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  particles .
the diameter ,  that is the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of blood - derived low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  particles .
the diameter ,  that is the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of blood - derived very low - density lipoprotein  ( vldl )  particles .
the diameter ,  that is the distance between two specified opposite points on the periphery of blood - derived chylomicron particles .
measurement of the amount of cholesterol ,  a eukaryotic sterol that in higher animals is the precursor of bile acids and steroid hormones and a key constituent of cell membranes ,  carried in lipoprotein molecules in a specified volume of blood .
measurement of the amount of phospholipid ,  any of various phosphorus - containing lipids that are composed mainly of fatty acids ,  a phosphate group ,  and a simple organic molecule such as glycerol ,  carried in lipoprotein molecules in a specified volume of blood .
measurement of the amount of ketone bodies ,  that is ,  acetoacetate ,  3 - hydroxybutyrate and / or acetone ,  in a specified sample of urine .
measurement of the number of dopamine - producing neurons in a specified sample .
the portion of the cross - sectional area of the tibia ,  measured midway between the two ends of the bone ,  that corresponds to the area of the cortex ,  the outer layer of the bone .
measurement of the size of the three dimensional space occupied by the portion of a tibia composed of trabecular bone .
measurement of the physical form or structure of a slice or similar portion of a bone .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the physical form or structure of a slice or other portion of a bone .
volume of the entire region of interest in a sample ,  for example a slice ,  of bone .
in a sample of bone ,  the volume of the portion which has been segmented as mineralized ,  radiodense / radiopaque tissue .
in a sample of bone ,  the surface area ,  that is ,  the two - dimensional extent of a planar region comprising the superficial or external aspect ,  of the portion which has been segmented as mineralized ,  radiodense / radiopaque tissue .
in a sample of bone ,  the volume of the portion of the sample which has been segmented as mineralized ,  radiodense / radiopaque tissue divided by the total volume of the region of interest .
in a sample of bone ,  the surface area of the portion of the sample which has been segmented as mineralized ,  radiodense / radiopaque tissue divided by the total volume of the region of interest .
a calculated measurement in which ,  in a sample of bone ,  the surface area of the portion of the sample which has been segmented as mineralized ,  radiodense / radiopaque tissue is divided by the volume of the portion of the sample which has been segmented as mineralized ,  radiodense / radiopaque tissue .
a quantitative measure of bone microarchitecture calculated by means of three - dimensional image analysis and based on the volume ratio of plate - shaped trabeculae to rod - shaped ones .
a measure of the degree of connectivity of trabeculae divided by the total volume of the bone sample .
measure of the average number of trabeculae per unit length in a sample of bone .
mean thickness of trabeculae in a sample of bone .
mean distance between trabeculae in a sample of bone .
a value or quantity determined by count of how many times a quadrupedal subject in a piece of technical equipment or machinery ,  an appliance ,  or a device designed for a particular purpose rises up on its back legs and pushes on the lid / top of the apparatus .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the head of the femur ,  the hemispheric articular surface at the upper extremity of the thigh bone which acts as the 'ball' in the ball - and - socket hip joint .
the measurement of the linear distance between two opposite points on the periphery of the head of the femur ,  that is ,  the extent of the head of the femur from side to side .
the elongation or displacement of the bone at the point of breakage ,  for example during a bending test where displacement is the distance between the mid - span position of the bone without loading and the mid - span position of the bone under loading .
the elongation or displacement of the femur at the point of breakage ,  for example during a bending test where displacement is the distance between the mid - span position of the bone without loading and the mid - span position of the bone under loading .
the distance between the two ends ,  that is ,  of the extent of the longest dimension ,  of the aorta ,  the main trunk from which the arterial system proceeds .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the physical form or structure of the aorta ,  the main trunk from which the arterial system proceeds .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the aorta is divided by its length and the resulting quantity is divided by the total body weight of the organism .
a calculated measurement of the relative difference in pulse pressure between a treated state and a control state or between two points in time ,  expressed as a percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the value for the amount of insulin in a specified sample of serum is divided by the value for the level of glucose in the same sample of serum ,  and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the amount of glucose in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any quantitation of the cells and / or cell types which constitute the make - up of the spinal cord .
any quantitation of the cells and / or cell types which constitute the make - up of the spinal cord ventral horn ,  either of the horn - like projections of gray matter into the white matter of the spinal cord .
any quantitation of the cells or cell types which constitute the make - up of a tissue or a set of tissues .
the number of cells in the spinal cord ventral / anterior horn which express the cd3 antigen on the cell surface .
the amount of hemoglobin ,  the oxygen carrying pigment of erythrocytes ,  found in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of the section of the tibia located midway between the two epiphyses  ( that is ,  the ends )  of the bone .
the width of the layer of cortical ,  compact or cancellous bone  ( the relatively solid type of bone tissue found in the middle of long bones which is a hierarchical composite material consisting of a collagen - hydroxyapatite composite at the lowest level forming a complex network of cylindrical units of laminated bone at the highest level )  ,  measured midway between the two epiphyses  ( that is ,  the ends )  of the bone .
measurement of the amount of time spent by an experimental subject in an experimental apparatus searching for and / or determining the position of a desired goal or reward .
measurement of the amount of time spent by an experimental subject in an experimental apparatus searching for and / or determining the position of a ,  possibly raised ,  horizontal surface within the apparatus .
measurement of the amount of time spent by an experimental subject in an experimental apparatus searching for and / or determining the position of a ,  possibly raised ,  horizontal surface within the apparatus which can be seen during the search .
measurement of the amount of time spent by an experimental subject in an experimental apparatus searching for and / or determining the position of a ,  possibly raised ,  horizontal surface within the apparatus which cannot be seen during the search .
the total number of experimental subjects within a study population which remain alive during a specified period of time divided by the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
any quantification of the ability of a protein of the heart to accomplish an effect ,  e .g .
any quantification of the ability of a heart enzyme ,  i .e .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin i converting enzyme 2  ( ace2 )  in a specified sample of heart tissue .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin i converting enzyme  ( ace )  in a specified sample of heart tissue .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin converting enzyme2  ( ace2 )  in a specified sample of blood .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin converting enzyme2  ( ace2 )  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin converting enzyme2  ( ace2 )  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin converting enzyme2  ( ace2 )  in a specified sample of kidney .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin i converting enzyme  ( ace )  in a specified sample of kidney tissue .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological ,  involving the lung or any part thereof .
any quantification of the ability of a protein of the lung to accomplish an effect ,  e .g .
any quantification of the ability of a lung enzyme ,  i .e .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin converting enzyme2  ( ace2 )  in a specified sample of lung .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by angiotensin i converting enzyme  ( ace )  in a specified sample of lung tissue .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display congenital malformation ( s )  at a point in time or develop congenital malformation ( s )  within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
any measurement in which the number of individuals in a study population that display anorectal malformation at a point in time or develop anorectal malformation within a determined period of time are compared to the total number of individuals in the study population .
the number of new cases of anorectal malformation appearing in a study population during a certain period compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
the number of individuals in a study population which display ,  i .e . ,  are manifesting symptoms of or have been diagnosed with ,  anorectal malformation at a certain point in time compared to the total number of individuals in the study population ,  expressed as a percentage .
a calculated value in which anogenital distance  ( the length of a line between the anal opening and the genitalia )  is divided by the cube root of the weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of creatinine in a specified sample of urine .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of protein in a specified sample of urine or the amount of protein excreted into the urine in a specified period of time is divided by the amount of creatinine in that sample of urine or the amount of creatinine excreted into the urine in that period of time ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of a cardiac muscle fiber ,  a striated cardiac muscle cell  ( cardiomyocyte )  that is responsible for heart contraction .
the length of a straight line passing through a cardiac muscle fiber ,  that is a cardiomyocyte ,  for instance through the center of its nucleus ,  and connecting opposite points on its periphery .
any quantitation of the molecules ,  atoms and / or ions which constitute the chemical make - up of the skin ,  the tough ,  supple cutaneous membrane that covers the surface of the body .
a quantification of one or more electrolytes in the skin .
quantification of the amount of potassium atoms or ions in a specified sample of skin .
quantification of the amount of sodium atoms or ions in a specified sample of skin .
quantification of the amount of chloride ions ,  that is ,  univalent anionic chlorine ions ,  in a specified sample of skin .
quantification of the amount of water in a specified sample of skin .
a measurement ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of any electrolyte ( s )  in skin .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of potassium atoms or ions in a specified sample of skin is divided by the dry weight of that skin sample and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of sodium atoms or ions in a specified sample of skin is divided by the dry weight of that skin sample and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of chloride atoms or ions in a specified sample of skin is divided by the dry weight of that skin sample and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of water in a specified sample of skin is divided by the dry weight of that skin sample and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the sum of the amount of potassium in a specified sample of skin and the amount of sodium in that sample of skin is divided by the amount of water in the same sample of skin .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of potassium in a specified sample of skin is divided by the amount of water in the same sample of skin and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of sodium in a specified sample of skin is divided by the amount of water in the same sample of skin and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of chloride in a specified sample of skin is divided by the amount of water in the same sample of skin and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the amount of any cystatin  ( that is ,  of any member of the cystatin superfamily of proteins ,  many of which act as cysteine protease inhibitors )  found in a specified sample of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
the amount of the protein cystatin c found in a specified sample of blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
the amount of the protein cystatin c found in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the amount of the protein cystatin c found in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a calculated measurement of body size in which the weight of an animal is divided by the square of the body length ,  where body length is measured from the tip of the nose to the tip  ( that is ,  the dorsal end )  of the tail .
a calculated measurement of body size in which the weight of an animal is divided by the square of the body length ,  where body length is measured from the tip of the nose to the rump ,  that is ,  the base of the tail .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of plasma that perfuses the kidneys per unit time per amount of body weight .
a calculated measurement in which glomerular filtration rate ,  an estimate of the volume of fluid filtered from the kidney glomerular capillaries into the bowman's capsule per specified unit of time ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated value in which the volume of glomeruli with lesions resulting from fibrosis ,  scarring or hyaline deposits is divided by the total volume of glomeruli in a specified sample of kidney and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the total volume of glomeruli .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of angiotensin ii in a specified sample of blood plasma is divided by the amount of angiotensin i in the same or a comparable sample of blood plasma ,  and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the relative concentration of hemoglobin that has been glycosylated as a result of the nonenzymatic attachment of a glucose / hexose moiety to the amino terminal valine of the beta chain of the hemoglobin molecule ,  in a specified sample of blood .
a calculated value in which the weight of the heart left ventricle is divided by the length of the tibia  ( the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus )  ,  and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage , thus normalizing it to the length of the leg and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the body .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the movement of blood into ,  through or out of the heart .
a calculated measurement in which the value of the e wave  ( that is ,  the velocity of the blood flow across the mitral valve during passive filling of the left ventricle in early diastole )  is divided by the value of the a wave  ( that is ,  the velocity of the blood flow across the mitral valve during active filling of the left ventricle caused by atrial contraction in late diastole )  .
a calculated measurement in which the average width of the tunica media is divided by the inner diameter  ( that is ,  the diameter of the lumen )  of the artery and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the thickness ,  width or depth of the septal wall of the heart ventricles  ( that is ,  the portion of the wall between the left and right ventricles that is shared between the two )  at the end of diastole when the heart muscle is maximally relaxed .
the thickness ,  width or depth of the septal wall of the heart ventricles  ( that is ,  the portion of the wall between the left and right ventricles that is shared between the two )  at the end of systole when the heart muscle is maximally contracted .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rna )  of which a tissue is formed or composed .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rna )  of which the tissue of the adrenal gland is formed or composed .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  of which the tissue of the brain is formed or composed .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  of which the heart is formed or composed .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  of which the tissue of the kidney is formed or composed .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  of which the tissue of the lung is formed or composed .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  of which muscle tissue is formed or composed .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  of which the tissue of the spleen is formed or composed .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  of which testis tissue is formed or composed .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  of which the tissue of the thymus is formed or composed .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  of which the tissue of the uterus is formed or composed .
a calculated value in which the total body weight of an organism is divided by the length of the organism from the distance between the tip of the nose to the base of the tail ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to  the length of the body .
a calculated value in which the total body weight of an organism is divided by the length of the organism from the distance between the tip of the nose to the distal end of the tail ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to  the length of the body .
a calculated measurement in which a series of body weight measurements is plotted against time for a single individual and the extent of the two dimensional region bounded by the curve and the axes of the graph is determined .
measurement of the whole body visceral fat which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated value in which the whole body visceral fat weight is divided by the length of the organism from the tip of the nose to the base of the tail ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to the length of the body .
a variability measurement in which the mean is calculated from the standard deviations or the standard deviation is calculated from the means of sequential one hour systolic blood pressure measurements .
a variability measurement in which the mean is calculated from the standard deviations or the standard deviation is calculated from the means of sequential one hour diastolic blood pressure measurements .
a variability measurement in which the mean is calculated from the standard deviations or the standard deviation is calculated from the means of sequential one hour mean arterial blood pressure measurements .
a variability measurement in which the mean is calculated from the standard deviations or the standard deviation is calculated from the means of sequential one hour heart rate measurements .
the ratio of the sum of the horizontal distance of an experimental subject made in proximity to the target to the total horizontal distance made within an apparatus .
a calculated value in which the number of glomeruli with microaneurysm  ( focal dilation of arteriocapillary junctions )  ,  is divided by the total number of glomeruli in the kidney and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the total number of glomeruli .
a calculated value in which the area of glomeruli with activated mesangial cells  ( determined by the expression of &#945 ;  - smooth muscle actin )  ,  is divided by the total area of glomeruli counted in the kidney and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or quotient ,  thus normalizing it to the total number of glomeruli .
any measurement that has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the glomeruli of one or both kidneys ,  the paired organ which functions to maintain proper water and electrolyte balance ,  regulate acid - base concentration ,  and filter the blood of metabolic wastes .
the amount of type i collagen c - terminal telopeptide in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of type i collagen c - terminal telopeptide in a specified volume of plasma .
the amount of type i collagen c - terminal telopeptide in a specified volume of serum .
the amount of osteocalcin in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of osteocalcin in a specified volume of plasma .
the amount of osteocalcin in a specified volume of serum .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more cellular organelles .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more neuronal organelles .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of neuron cytoplasm .
a measurement of the average extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through the cell cytoplasm .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more neuronal mitochondria .
a measurement of the average extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through neuronal mitochondria .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the neuron mitochondrion area .
a calculated measurement in which the neuronal mitochondrion area is divided by the neuronal cytoplasm area ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more neuronal lysosomes .
a measurement of the average extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through neuronal lysosomes .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the neuron lysosome area .
a calculated measurement in which the neuronal lysosome area is divided by the neuronal cytoplasm area ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of the neuronal golgi apparatus .
a measurement of the average extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through the neuronal golgi apparatus .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the neuron golgi apparatus area .
a calculated measurement in which the neuronal golgi apparatus area is divided by the neuronal cytoplasm area ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of the neuronal rough endoplasmic reticulum .
a measurement of the average extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through the neuronal rough endoplasmic reticulum .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the neuron rough endoplasmic reticulum area .
a calculated measurement in which the neuronal rough endoplasmic reticulum area is divided by the neuronal cytoplasm area ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of the neuronal vacuole .
a measurement of the average extent of a two - dimensional surface of or plane through the neuronal vacuole .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the neuron vacuole area .
a calculated measurement in which the neuronal vacuole area is divided by the neuronal cytoplasm area ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of one or more of the mesenteric arteries ,  which arise from the anterior surface of the abdominal aorta ,  just inferior to the origin of the celiac trunk ,  and supplies blood to the intestine from the lower part of the duodenum through two - thirds of the transverse colon ,  as well as the pancreas .
any quantitation of the molecules ,  atoms and / or ions which constitute the chemical make - up of the wall of one or more of the mesenteric arteries .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the physical form or structure of any of the mesenteric arteries .
a calculated measurement in which mesenteric artery phosphorylated enos protein level is divided by aorta wall total enos protein level and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which aorta wall phosphorylated enos protein level is divided by aorta wall total enos protein level and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the count of discrete movements of an organism from one place to another along a plane parallel to the plane of the horizon in a piece of technical equipment or machinery ,  or in an appliance or device designed for a particular purpose originated ,  undertaken ,  controlled ,  or accomplished as a result of free will or choice within a specified period of time .
the amount of fructosamine ,  the compound that results from glycation reactions between a sugar and a primary amine ,  followed by isomerization via the amadori rearrangement ,  found in a specific volume of blood
the amount of fructosamine ,  the compound that results from glycation reactions between a sugar and a primary amine ,  followed by isomerization via the amadori rearrangement ,  found in a specific volume of serum .
the amount of fructosamine ,  the compound that results from glycation reactions between a sugar and a primary amine ,  followed by isomerization via the amadori rearrangement ,  found in a specific volume of plasma .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the water drink intake rate .
amount of water consumed as a drink per unit time divided by the weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
monophasic action potentials  ( maps )  are recorded using contact electrode catheters .
conduction velocity is calculated as the distance from pacing electrode to the monophasic action potential recording electrode across the epicardial surface ,  divided by the conduction time ,  the time from the pacing spike to monophasic action potential onset .
the e / e' is a ratio of peak velocity of early diastolic trans - mitral flow  ( e )  to the peak velocity of early diastolic mitral annular motion  ( e' ) 
any quantitation of the molecules ,  atoms and / or ions which constitute the chemical make - up of the tissue ( s )  of the heart .
measurement of the amount of free fatty acids within the heart .
measurement of the amount of triglycerides within the heart .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the end - systolic heart left ventricle posterior wall thickness .
a calculated measurement in which the heart left ventricle end - systolic posterior wall thickness is divided by the weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the heart left ventricle end - systolic internal diameter .
a calculated measurement in which the heart left ventricle end - systolic internal diameter is divided by the weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the heart ventricle end - systolic septal wall thickness .
a calculated measurement in which the heart ventricle end - systolic septal wall thickness is divided by the weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
peak velocity of late atrial diastolic trans - mitral flow  ( a )  .
e' wave velocity is the peak velocity of early mitral annular diastolic motion .
a' wave velocity  ( a' )  is the peak velocity of late  ( atrial )  diastolic mitral annular motion .
the amount of enzymatic activity of &#945 ;  - n - acetylgalactosaminidase  ( naga )  in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of n - terminal  ( nt )  - pro hormone bnp  ( nppb )  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of n - terminal  ( nt )  - pro hormone bnp  ( nppb )  in a specified volume of plasma .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of aldosterone in a specified sample of plasma .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of cardiac output .
a calculated measurement in which the cardiac output is divided by the weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of cardiac stroke volume .
a calculated measurement in which the cardiac stroke volume is divided by the weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the left ventricular end - systolic blood pressure .
effective arterial elastance  ( ea )  ,  defined as the ratio of left ventricular  ( lv )  end - systolic pressure and stroke volume ,  lumps the steady and pulsatile components of the arterial load in a concise way .
defined as the work performed by the left or right ventricle to eject the stroke volume into the aorta or pulmonary artery ,  respectively .
defined as the work performed by the left ventricle to eject the stroke volume into the aorta .
preload recruitable stroke work  ( prsw )  is determined by the linear regression of stroke work with the end - diastolic volume .
a calculated measurement in which the maximum rate of positive change in left ventricular blood pressure is divided by the left ventricular end - diastolic volume ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the end - diastolic heart left ventricle posterior wall thickness .
a calculated measurement in which the heart left ventricle end - diastolic posterior wall thickness is divided by the weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the heart left ventricle end - diastolic anterior wall thickness .
a calculated measurement in which the heart left ventricle end - diastolic anterior wall thickness is divided by the weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the heart ventricle end - diastolic septal wall thickness .
a calculated measurement in which the heart ventricle end - diastolic septal wall thickness is divided by the weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
measurement of the amount of a ketone body ,  3 - hydroxybutyrate ,  in a specified sample of urine .
measurement of the amount of a ketone body ,  acetoacetone ,  in a specified sample of urine .
the amount of glycated albumin in a specified volume of blood .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of glycated albumin in a specified sample of blood is divided by the amount of total albumin in that same sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of hemoglobin a1c in a specified sample of blood .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of glycated albumin in a specified sample of blood .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of hemoglobin a1c in a specified sample of blood is divided by the amount of total hemoglobin in that same sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
renal medullary blood flow  ( mbf )  is the volume of blood delivered to or exiting from the renal medulla per unit time .
the amount of vasopressin in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of vasopressin in a specified volume of plasma .
the amount of vasopressin in a specified volume of serum .
measurement of the amount of phosphorus ,  measured as inorganic phosphate eliminated from the body in the urine per unit time .
the amount of urea excreted into the urine within a specified period of time .
left ventricle end - diastolic elastance  ( eed )  is the estimate of the slope of the line ped=eed ( ved - v0 )  ,  which is based on linear regression of points determined by iterative calculation of the lv end - diastolic pressurevolume relationship .
left ventricle end - systolic elastance  ( ees )  is the estimate of the slope of the line pes=ees ( ves - v0 )  ,  which is based on linear regression of points determined by iterative calculation of the lv end - systolic pressurevolume relationship .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of components of the periodic tightening and loosening of the muscles of a ventricle of the heart .
left ventricle diastolic volume - axis intercept  ( v0 )  is determined by the line ped=eed ( ved - v0 )  ,  which is based on linear regression of points determined by interative calculation of the lv end - diastolic pressurevolume relationship .
left ventricle systolic volume - axis intercept  ( v0 )  is determined by the line pes=ees ( ves - v0 )  ,  which is based on linear regression of points determined by iterative calculation of the lv end - diastolic pressurevolume relationship .
a measurement of the volume of blood in ventricle immediately before a contraction which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
a measurement of the volume of blood in a ventricle at the end of a contraction which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation .
the amount of adrenomedullin in a specified sample of kidney tissue .
the amount of adrenomedullin in a specified sample of medullary kidney tissue .
the amount of adrenomedullin in a specified sample of cortical kidney tissue .
the amount of urotensin ii in a specified volume of urine .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of urotensin ii in a specified sample of urine .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of urotensin ii is divided by the amount of creatinine in a specified volume of urine .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of albumin in a specified sample of urine .
the number of dissolved particles in a specified volume of plasma .
any measurement of urea in urine ,  the fluid waste product excreted by the kidneys .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of urea in a specified sample of urine .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of urea present in a specified volume of urine  ,  is divided by the amount of creatinine in a specified volume of urine .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of sodium in a specified sample of urine .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of sodium ions present in a specified volume of urine  ,  is divided by the amount of creatinine in a specified volume of urine .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of potassium in a specified sample of urine .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of potassium ions present in a specified volume of urine  ,  is divided by the amount of creatinine in a specified volume of urine .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the volume of fluid filtered from the kidney glomerular capillaries into the bowman's capsule per specified unit of time based on serum creatinine level ,  wieght and age of organism and other factors .
any quantification of a morphological or physiological parameter of one or more nucleic acids in the heart .
any measurement of the absolute or relative amount ( s )  of one or more of the ribonucleic acids  ( rnas )  of which the heart left ventricle is formed or composed .
the amount of ribonucleic acid  ( dna )  ,  the molecule composed of the sugar ribose ,  phosphate groups and any combination of the bases adenine ,  guanine ,  cytosine ,  and / or uracil  ,  extracted from or contained in the heart right ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the right side of the heart  ( from the perspective of the organism rather than the observer )  ,  which pumps venous blood through the pulmonary trunk and arteries to the capillaries of the lung .
filtration fraction is the ratio of the glomerular filtration rate  ( gfr )  to the renal plasma flow  ( rpf )  .
a calculated measurement to determine the volume of fluid filtered from the renal  ( kidney )  glomerular capillaries of a single nephron into bowman's capsule per unit time .
a calculated measurement to determine the ratio of the single nephron glomerular filtration rate  ( sngfr )  to the renal plasma flow  ( rpf )  .
a semiquantitative evaluation of the renal interstitium using a grading system with a score of 0 to 4 +  ,  which assesses the tubules and the interstitium for the presence of  ( 1 )  tubular atrophy ,   ( 2 )  tubular dilatation ,   ( 3 )  interstitial inflammatory cell infiltrates ,  and  ( 4 )  interstitial fibrosis .
measurement of the amount of podocalyxin eliminated from the body in the urine per unit time .
a calculated value in which the weight of the left atrium ,  the upper chamber on the left side of the heart which empties into the lower left chamber ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
a measurement of the physical form or structure of the right atrium ,  the right upper chamber of the heart that receives blood from the vena cava and forces it into the right ventricle ,  which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated value in which the weight of the right atrium ,  the upper chamber on the right side of the heart which empties into the lower right left chamber ,  is divided by the total weight of the body and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight .
the weight of the septum of the heart ,  which is the portion of the heart left ventricle ventral / anterior wall and right ventricle dorsal / posterior wall which is shared between the ventricles ,  after removal from the body and separation from the rest of the heart .
the average number of podocytes in the kidney glomeruli .
a calculated measurement in which the average number of podocytes is divided by the average volume of kidney glomeruli .
any measurement of aldosterone in urine .
measurement of the amount of aldosterone in a specified sample of urine .
measurement of the amount of aldosterone eliminated from the body in the urine per unit time .
the average number of nucleated cells in the kidney glomeruli .
an injury score obtained by multiplying the degree of glomerular damage  ( 0 to 4 )  with the percentage of the glomeruli with that type of injury  ( i .e . ,  increase in mesangial matrix material or glomerulosclerosis )  .
amount of parathyroid hormone ,  a hormone that regulates blood calcium and phosphate levels ,  in a specified volume of blood .
amount of parathyroid hormone ,  a hormone that regulates blood calcium and phosphate levels ,  in a specified volume of plasma .
amount of parathyroid hormone ,  a hormone that regulates blood calcium and phosphate levels ,  in a specified volume of serum .
the weight or the measure of the heaviness of tibialis anterior muscle ,  which is a muscle that originates in the upper two - thirds of the lateral surface of the tibia and inserts into the medial cuneiform and first metatarsal bones of the foot .
the weight or the measure of the heaviness of extensor digitorum longus muscle ,  which is a penniform muscle of the lateral front part of the hindlimb responsible for extension of the digits and dorsiflexion of the ankle .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of tibialis anterior muscle is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thereby normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of extensor digitorum longus muscle is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thereby normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
volume of blood plasma delivered to a single glomerulus per unit time
force exerted on the luminal capillary wall from fluid flowing through the capillary .
any measurement of one of the small blood vessels carrying blood between arteries and capillaries .
resistance that must be overcome to push blood through arterioles to create flow .
resistance to blood flow measured within the efferent arteriole proximal to a glomerular capillary network .
resistance to blood flow measured within the afferent arteriole distal to a glomerular capillary network .
total resistance to blood flow measured within the afferent arteriole proximal and distal to a glomerular capillary network  ( rt = ra  +  re )  .
measurement of the total amount of all proteins found in a specific volume of afferent arteriolar plasma .
measurement of the total amount of all proteins found in a specific volume of efferent arteriolar plasma .
a form of osmotic pressure exerted by proteins ,  notably albumin ,  in the afferent arteriole's plasma that tends to pull water into the circulatory system .
a form of osmotic pressure exerted by proteins ,  notably albumin ,  in the efferent arteriole's plasma that tends to pull water into the circulatory system .
a measure of a membrane's permeability to water ;  specifically ,  the volume of fluid filtered in unit time through a unit area of membrane per unit pressure difference ,  and it is defined as the glomerular filtration rate  ( gfr )  for both kidneys per millimeter of mercury  ( mmhg )  of filtration pressure .
a calculated measurement in which the area occupied by renal cysts is divided by the total the kidney ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
blood measurement of angiotensin i ,  a decapeptide that is cleaved from precursor angiotensinogen by renin .
plasma measurement of angiotensin i ,  a decapeptide that is cleaved from precursor angiotensinogen by renin .
serum measurement of angiotensin i ,  a decapeptide that is cleaved from precursor angiotensinogen by renin .
force exerted on the luminal surface of the proximal tubule from fluid flowing through the tubule .
force exerted on the luminal vessel wall from fluid flowing through the efferent arteriole .
the difference between the force exerted on the luminal glomerular capillary wall and the force exerted on the luminal proximal tubular membrane  ( pgc  -  pt = delta p )  .
a calculated measurement in which the pressure in the heart left ventricle at the end of diastole ,  the period when the heart is in a state of relaxation and expansion and the ventricles fill with blood ,  divided by the diameter across the left ventricle of the heart at the end of diastole and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
rate - pressure product is defined as the product of the heart rate  ( the number of contractions of the cardiac ventricles per unit of time )  and mean arterial blood pressure  ( the average force the blood exerts on an artery wall )  .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the liver is divided by the length of tibia ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the pancreas is divided by the length of tibia ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of sodium ions present in a specified volume of urine  ,  is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of potassium ions present in a specified volume of urine  ,  is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of sodium ions present in a specified volume of urine  ,  is divided by the amount of potassium in a specified volume of urine .
the calculated value blood insulin level area under curve divided by the calculated blood glucose level area under curve .
a calculated measurement to estimate the effect of insulin on net glucose disposal  ( insulin sensitivity )  in an organism ,  calculated as 10000 /  ( sqaure root of  (  ( fasting glucose x fasting insulin )  x  ( mean glucose across duration of glucose tolerance test x mean insulin across duration of glucose tolerance test )  .
calculated model of insulin resistance where the product of fasting glucose and fasting insulin is divided by 22 .5 .
the amount of hesperetin found in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of hesperetin found in a specified volume of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .hesperetin ,  in the form of its glycoside hesperidin ,  is the predominant flavonoid in lemons and oranges .
the amount of hesperetin found in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
amount of glucose - 6 - phophatase measured in a specified sample of liver .
amount of glucokinase measured in a specified sample of liver .
a measurement of the amount of high density lipoprotein cholesterol in serum which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of hdl cholesterol in a specified volume of serum is divided by the amount of total serum cholesterol ,  without taking into account any association with other molecules such as lipoproteins ,  in a specified volume of serum ,  in the same sample ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by dipeptidyl - peptidase 4  ( dpp4 )  in a specified volume of blood .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by dipeptidyl - peptidase iv  ( dpp4 )  in a specified volume of plasma .
quantitation of the catalytic effect exerted by dipeptidyl - peptidase iv  ( dpp4 )  in a specified volume of serum .
a calculated measurement of the average width of the tunica media  ( the middle coat of the arterial wall )  divided by the artery total diameter  ( measured as the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of an artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the outer surface of the blood vessel wall )  .
a calculated measurement of the average width of the artery lumen  ( measured as the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of an artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the inner surface of the blood vessel wall )  divided by the artery total diameter  ( measured as the length of a line which crosses a transverse view of an artery ,  passing through its center and ending on either side at the outer surface of the blood vessel wall )  .
measurement of the morphological characteristics of the gastrointestinal tract .
measurement of the weight or heaviness of the gastrointestinal tract ,  that is ,  the degree to which it is drawn toward the earth by gravity .
the number of reticulocytes in a specified volume of blood .
a calculated measurement in which the number of reticulocyte in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of red blood cell in that sample and presented as a ratio ,  fraction or percentage .
the distribution width of erythrocytes by their cellular  ( individual )  hemoglobin concentrations .
the amount of sorbital dehydrogenase in a specific volume of urine .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of chloride present in a specified volume of urine  ,  is divided by the amount of creatinine in a specified volume of urine .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of chloride in a specified sample of urine .
the amount of bile acid in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a morphological measurement of the size ,  volume of the outer part of the kidney ,  composed mainly of glomeruli and convoluted tubules .
a morphological measurement of the size ,  volume ,  of the renal medulla ,  the innermost part of the kidney which contains the structures of the nephrons responsible for maintaining the salt and water balance of the blood .
a calculated value in which the weight of the gastrointestinal tract is divided by the total weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to body weight and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the organism .
the amount of galanin in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of galanin in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount in blood of lutenizing hormone  ( lh )  produced by gonadotropic cells in the anterior pituitary gland .
the amount of lutenizing hormone  ( lh )  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
a measurement of the amount of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1  ( pai - 1 ) in the blood .
a measurement of the amount of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1  ( pai - 1 )  in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of lipocalin 2 in a specified volume of urine .
the amount of osteopontin in a specified volume of urine .osteopontin is a secreted multifunctional glycoprotein .
the amount of hepatitis a virus cellular receptor 1  ( havcr1 ) in a specific volume of urine .
the amount of beta - 2 microglobulin  ( b2m )  in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of beta - 2 microglobulin  ( b2m )  in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of calbindin in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of calbindin in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of clusterin in a specific sample of blood .
the amount of clusterin in a specific sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount in blood of glutathione s - transferase - alpha  ( gst - a )  .
measurement of the amount of glutathione s - transferase - alpha  ( gst - a ) in a specific sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of glutathione s - transferase - mu  ( gst - u ) in a specific sample of blood .
measurement of the amount of glutathione s - transferase - mu  ( gst - u ) in a specific sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1  ( timp - 1 ) in a specific sample of blood .
measurement of the amount of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1  ( timp - 1 ) in a specific sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of vascular endothelial growth factor a  ( vegf - a )  in a specific sample of blood .
measurement of the amount of vascular endothelial growth factor a  ( vegf - a )  in a specific sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of c3a des arg in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of c3a des arg in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of lipocalin 2 in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of lipocalin 2 in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of osteopontin in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of osteopontin in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the amount of hepatitis a virus cellular receptor 1  ( havcr1 ) in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of hepatitis a virus cellular receptor 1  ( havcr1 ) in a specified volume of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of interleukin - 4  ( il4 )  in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of interleukin - 4  ( il4 )  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
measurement of the amount of interleukin - 9  ( il9 )  in blood ,  the fluid that circulates through the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries and veins carrying nutrients and oxygen to the body tissues and metabolites away from them .
measurement of the amount of interleukin - 9  ( il9 )  in serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological of the intestine ,  the portion of the alimentary canal extending from the pyloric opening of the stomach to the anus .
the quantification of any physiological parameter of one or more proteins or peptides  ( low molecular weight compounds composed of at least two amino acids joined by peptide linkages )  in intestine .
any measurement related to an enzyme ,  a protein that acts as a catalyst ,  increasing the rate at which a chemical reaction occurs without itself being destroyed or altered upon completion of the reaction ,  in the intestine or in a sample of intestine tissue .
amount of trypsin enzyme activity measured in a specified sample of intestine .
measurement of the amount of amg - 8718 ,  a bace1 inhibitor ,  in a specified sample of blood .
measurement of the amount of amg - 8718 ,  a bace1 inhibitor ,  in a specified sample of plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
any measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the amount of amg - 8718 ,  a bace1 inhibitor ,  in a specified sample of plasma .
a calculated measurement in which a series of measurements of the amount of amg - 8718  ( bace1 inhibitor )  in a specified volume of plasma is plotted against time for a single individual and the extent of the two dimensional region bounded by the curve and the axes of the graph is determined .
the peak concentration that amg - 8718 achieves in a specified volume of blood after the drug has been administrated and before administration of a second dose .
the peak concentration that amg - 8718 achieves in a specified volume of plasma after the drug has been administrated and before administration of a second dose .
measurement of the thickness of the full retina layer between the apical portion of the retinal pigment epithelium and the outer margin of the ganglion cell layer .
the outer retinal thickness is defined as straight lines between outer plexiform layer to the apical layer of the retinal pigment epithelium perpendicular to the retinal layer measured .the measurement usually is done by optical coherence tomography  ( oct )  .
the inner retinal thickness is defined as straight lines between outer plexiform layer to the vitreous perpendicular to the retinal layer measured .the measurement usually is done by optical coherence tomography  ( oct )  .
the number of nuclei in the retinal outer nuclear layer .
the measurement of the thickness of the retinal layer that contains the nuclei and cell bodies of rods and cones .
any measurable or observable characteristic of actions or reactions related to how the body reacts to a stressor  ( a stimulus that causes stress )  ,  real or imagined .
time animals spend licking the abdomen in response to stressors during a period of time .
number of distinct ,  separable periods of time animals are licking the abdomen in response to stressors during a period of time .
the number of abdominal retraction in specified period .
measurement of the amount in the forebrain of an amine compound containing one amino group and derived from an aromatic amino acid ,  that is produced in one part or organ of the body and initiates or regulates the activity of an organ or a group of cells in another part of the body .
the measurement of norepinephrine level in the forebrain .
the measurement of forebrain level of 5 - hiaa ,   ( 5 - hydroxyindol - 3 - yl ) acetic acid ,  the major metabolite of serotonin .
measurement of the level of hva in the forebrain .
measurement of the level of dopac in the forebrain .
the comprehensive metabolic panel  ( cmp )  is a panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of platelets ,  the disk - shaped structures found in the blood of mammals which play a vital role in blood coagulation .
any measurement relating to the function of of platelets ,  the disk - shaped structures found in the blood of mammals which play a vital role in blood coagulation .
any measurement of the physical form or structure of red blood cells ,  one of the hemoglobin - containing blood cells that transport oxygen and carbon dioxide to and from the tissues ,  or of all of the red blood cells in a sample of blood .
any measurement relating to the function of of red blood cells ,  one of the hemoglobin - containing blood cells that transport oxygen and carbon dioxide to and from the tissues ,  or of all of the red blood cells in a sample of blood .
the measurement of hypothalamus level of 5 - hiaa ,   ( 5 - hydroxyindol - 3 - yl ) acetic acid ,  the major metabolite of serotonin .
measurement of the level of dopac in the hypothalamus .
the measurement of dopamine in the hypothalamus .
the measurement of norepinephrine in the hypothalamus .
measurement of the amount in the midbrain / pons of an amine compound containing one amino group and derived from an aromatic amino acid ,  that is produced in one part or organ of the body and initiates or regulates the activity of an organ or a group of cells in another part of the body .
the measurement of midbrain / pons level of 5 - hiaa ,   ( 5 - hydroxyindol - 3 - yl ) acetic acid ,  the major metabolite of serotonin .
the measurement of norepinephrine level in the midbrain / pons .
measurement of the level of hva in the midbrain / pons .
the measurement of dopamine in the midbrain / pons .
measurement of the level of dopac in the midbrain / pons .
measurement of the amount in the medulla oblongata of an amine compound containing one amino group and derived from an aromatic amino acid ,  that is produced in one part or organ of the body and initiates or regulates the activity of an organ or a group of cells in another part of the body .
the measurement of medulla oblongata level of 5 - hiaa ,   ( 5 - hydroxyindol - 3 - yl ) acetic acid ,  the major metabolite of serotonin .
measurement of the level of dopac in the medulla oblongata .
measurement of the level of hva in themedulla oblongata .
the measurement of norepinephrine level in the forebrain .
measurement of the amount in the cervical spinal cord of an amine compound containing one amino group and derived from an aromatic amino acid ,  that is produced in one part or organ of the body and initiates or regulates the activity of an organ or a group of cells in another part of the body .
measurement of the level of dopac in the forebrain .
the measurement of norepinephrine level in the cervical spinal cord  .
measurement of the amount of any xenobiotic or metabolic kinetics in a specified sample of blood .
the time it takes for the body to eliminate or breakdown half of a dose of a pharmacologic agent ,  in practice the time taken for plasma concentration to reduce by 50% .
the mean residence time is the average time the drug stays at the site of action .
the measurement of the rate at which nifedipine is eliminated from the body .
in pharmacology ,  the volume of distribution  ( vd ,  also known as apparent volume of distribution )  is the theoretical volume that would be necessary to contain the total amount of an administered drug at the same concentration that it is observed in the blood plasma .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one or both lungs is divided by the length of tibia ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to tibia length .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of one kidney is divided by the length of tibia ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to tibia length .
the the amount of stored mucosubstance in the epithelium of nasal septum quantified by the area of ab - paspositive tissue per unit width of basement membrane .
measurement related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the tube descending from the larynx and branching into the right and left main bronchi .
the measurement of the the enclosing boundary of trachea lined by apical surface of epithelium .
the measurement of total cartilage area in the tracheal ring .
measurement which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation of any measurement related to the shape ,  structure ,  color ,  or pattern of the tube descending from the larynx and branching into the right and left main bronchi .
maximal cartilage thickness was evaluated by determining the perpendicular distance between outer boundaries of cartilage rings . .
measurement of the distance between the basement membrane  ( on the serosal surface )  and the apical membrane lumenally .
submucosal gland area was determined by measuring both serous and mucus components of the gland structures .
quantitation of intracellular mucus in the submucosal gland area in the trachea .
the percent of intracellular mucus was determined as the ratio of intracellular mucus / total submucosal gland area .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of c reactive protein  ( crp )  found in the blood .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of c reactive protein  ( crp )  found in the serum ,  the clear liquid that separated from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
the proportion ,  quantity ,  or volume of c reactive protein  ( crp )  found in the plasma ,  the fibrinogen - containing fluid portion of the blood in which the particulate components are suspended .
the number of cd3 - positive t cell in the kidney .
any quantitation of the cells and / or cell types which constitute the make - up of the kidney
measurement of the relative abundance of regulatory t cells whose function is control or suppression of the t cell mediated immune response .
measurement of the relative abundance of regulatory t cells in the spleen .
a measurement which has been normalized or adjusted by a mathematical process or computation of the brain infarction volume .
a calculated value in which the volume of cerebrum infarction is divided by the total volume of the cerebrum ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction or percentage ,  thus normalizing it to the size of the brain .
a fractional rate by which tracer leaves plasma and is being trapped in an organ .
a fractional rate by which tracer leaves plasma and is being trapped in an organ .
a fractional rate by which tracer leaves plasma and is being trapped in an organ .
the apparent volume occupied by an exogenous compound during the time point when the plasma concentration of the compound reaches steady state levels in the brain
the apparent volume occupied by an exogenous compound during the time point when the plasma concentration of the compound reaches steady state levels in the retina .
the apparent volume occupied by an exogenous compound during the time point when the plasma concentration of the compound reaches steady state levels in the aqueous humor .
percentage of radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle in injected solution compared to radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle measured in the brain .
percentage of radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle in injected solution compared to radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle measured in the retina .
percentage of radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle in injected solution compared to radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle measured in the aqueous humor .
percentage of radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle in injected solution compared to radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle measured in the aqueous humor .
percentage of radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle in injected solution compared to radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle measured in the brain .
percentage of radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle in injected solution compared to radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle measured in the retina .
percentage of radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle in injected solution compared to radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle measured in the aqueous humor .
percentage of radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle in injected solution compared to radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle measured in the brain .
percentage of radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle in injected solution compared to radiolabeled substance to radiolabeled vehicle measured in the retina .
a calculated value in which the weight of the heart right ventricle is divided by the length of the tibia  ( the medial and larger of the two bones of the lower leg of bipeds or hindlimb of quadrupeds which articulates with the femur ,  fibula ,  and talus )  ,  and the result is presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage , thus normalizing it to the length of the leg and ,  by extension ,  to the size of the body .
any quantitation of the molecules ,  atoms and / or ions which constitute the chemical make - up of a skeletal muscle .
measurement of the amount of triglycerides within skeletal muscle
reactive oxygen metabolites are hydroperoxides measured as derivatives in a drom spectrophotometric test .
reactive oxygen metabolites are hydroperoxides measured as derivatives in a drom spectrophotometric test .
left ventricle end - diastolic wall stress  ( lved - ws )  is calculated measurement of the force acting against the left ventricle wall at the endo of diastole ,  that is when the heart muscle is maximally relaxed ,  and usually corresponds to its largest diameter .
left ventricle end - systolic wall stress  ( lves - ws ) is calculated measurement of the force acting against the left ventricle wall at the endo of end of systole ,  the period of contraction of the heart when the blood is forced from the ventricles into the pulmonary artery  ( right ventricle )  and the aorta  ( left ventricle )  .
angiotensin ii collected by microdialysis probe with semipermeable membrane fiber at a depth of 4 mm within the lv myocardium free wall .
bradykinin collected by microdialysis probe with semipermeable membrane fiber at a depth of 4 mm within the lv myocardium free wall  -  pmid: 22768235
norepinephrine collected by microdialysis probe with semipermeable membrane fiber at a depth of 4 mm within the lv myocardium free wall  -  pmid: 22768235
epinephrine collected by microdialysis probe with semipermeable membrane fiber at a depth of 4 mm within the lv myocardium free wall  -  pmid: 22768235
the amount of bradykinin in a specified sample of blood .
the amount of bradykinin in a specified sample of plasma .
the rate constant associated with glucose disappearance from a loaded system .
a calculated value which compares the weight of the left ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the left side of the heart ,  which pumps oxygenated blood out through the aorta to all the tissues of the body ,  with the weight of the right ventricle ,  the lower chamber of the right side of the heart ,  which pumps venous blood through the pulmonary trunk and arteries to the capillaries of the lung ,  and presents it as a ratio .
homeostatic model assessment  ( homa - beta )  is a method for assessing &#946 ;  - cell function from basal  ( fasting )  glucose and insulin or c - peptide concentrations .
a measurement of the amount of angiotensin ii type 1 receptor ,  the angiotensin receptor exhibiting vasopressor effects ,  regulation of aldosterone secretion and blood pressure and volume control ,  in a specified sample of adrenal tissue expressed relative to the weight of total protein in that sample .
the amount of urotensin ii in a specified volume of blood .
the amount of urotensin ii in a specified volume of plasma .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of ldl ,  relatively large - particle lipoproteins that transport cholesterol to extrahepatic tissue , in a specified volume of serum is divided by the amount of hdl ,  small - particle lipoproteins that promote transport of cholesterol from extrahepatic tissue to the liver for excretion in the bile ,  and presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the weight of the aorta is divided by the total body weight of the organism .
a calculated measurement in which the amount of albumin in a specified sample of urine or the amount of albumin excreted into the urine in a specified period of time is divided by the amount of total protein in that sample of urine or the amount of total protein excreted into the urine in that period of time ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation ,  of the heart left ventricle end - diastolic internal dimension .
a calculated measurement in which the heart left ventricle end - diastolic internal dimension is divided by the weight of the body ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
a calculated measurement in which the number of lymphocytes expressing the cd3 antigen on their surface in a specified sample of blood is divided by the total number of lymphocytes in the sample ,  and the result presented as a ratio ,  fraction ,  quotient or percentage .
the amount of interferon gamma  ( ifng )  expressed  ( i .e .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the amount of calcium in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
pyrophosphates are phosphorus oxyanions that contain two phosphorus atoms in a p - o - p linkage .
pyrophosphates are phosphorus oxyanions that contain two phosphorus atoms in a p - o - p linkage .
a measurement which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the amount of phosphate in a specified sample of serum ,  the clear liquid that separates from blood after it has clotted completely ,  i .e .
rdw - sd is a measurement derived from the red blood cell distribution curves generated on automated hematology analyzers and is an indicator of variation in rbc size within a blood sample .
platelet to large cell ratio  ( p - lcr )  is defined as the ratio of platelets that exceed the normal value of platelet volume  ( e .g .
a quantification which has been normalized ,  adjusted or derived by a mathematical process or computation of the number of platelet in a specified sample of blood .
the measurement of serotonin in the hypothalamus .
measurement of the level of hva in the hypothalamus .
measurement of the amount in the cervical spinal cord the level of hva  ,  homovanillic acid ,  is a catecholamine metabolite .
