a cavity developed along a bedding - plane and elongate in cross - section as a result .
a primary administrative division of a country ,  such as a state in the united states .
a subdivision of a first - order administrative division .
a subdivision of a second - order administrative division .
a subdivision of a third - order administrative division .
a political association with effective dominion over a geographic area .
a man - made feature constructed for the purpose of enabling the movement of humans ,  their animals or their vehicles .
an enclosure for displaying selected plant or animal life .
a geographical feature associated with water .
a collection of caves interconnected by enterable passages or linked hydrologically or a cave with an extensive complex of chambers and passages .
artificial watercourse with no flow or a controlled flow used for navigation ,  drainage or irrigation .
continuous saline - water bodies that surround the continents and fill the earth's great depressions .
a large expanse of saline water usually connected with an ocean .
a geographical feature associated with water with a halinity above 30 ppt  ( roughly 35 g / l )  .
a river that has either permanently or temporally lost its water .
a lake whose water contains a considerable concentration of dissolved salts .
a body of water or other liquid of considerable size contained on a body of land .
a lake of whose water contains low concentrations of salts .
natural freshwater surface streams of considerable volume and a permanent or seasonal flow ,  moving in a definite channel toward a sea ,  lake ,  or another river ;  any large streams ,  or ones larger than brooks or creeks ,  such as the trunk stream and larger branches of a drainage system .
linear body of water flowing on the earth's surface .
a stream whose flow is not continuous .
an artificial body of water ,  often contained by a dam ,  constructed for the purpose of water storage .
a cylindrical hole ,  pit ,  or tunnel drilled or dug down to a depth from which water ,  oil ,  or gas can be pumped or brought to the surface .
a point where groundwater or steam flows out of the ground ,  and is thus where the aquifer surface meets the ground surface or where there is a fissure .
a quarry from which sand is extracted .
a flowing body of water .
a cave without streams or drips of water .
a valley or ravine ,  bounded by relatively steep banks ,  which in the rainy season becomes a watercourse .
an area of water bordered by land on three sides .
a body of water ,  usually of smaller size than a lake .
an area of broken ,  fast flowing water in a stream ,  where the slope of the bed increases  ( but without a prominent break of slope which might result in a waterfall )  ,  or where a gently dipping bar of harder rock outcrops .
a wetland ,  featuring grasses ,  rushes ,  reeds ,  typhas ,  sedges ,  and other herbaceous plants  ( possibly with low - growing woody plants )  in a context of shallow water .
artificial watercourse with no flow or a controlled flow used irrigation .
a small artificial watercourse dug for draining or irrigating the land .
a sheet of saline water separated from the open sea by sand or shingle banks .
a long and narrow sea inlet with high steeply sloped walled sides .
a sudden descent of water over a step or ledge in the bed of a river .
a tidal water channel .creeks may often dry to a muddy channel with little or no flow at low tide ,  but often with significant depth of water at high tide .
artificial watercourse with no flow or a controlled flow used drainage .
an area that is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support ,  and that under normal circumstances do support ,  a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions .
a wetland type that accumulates acidic peat ,  a deposit of dead plant material .
a semi - enclosed coastal body of water with one or more rivers or streams flowing into it ,  and with a free connection to the open sea .
a dense growth of shrubbery planted as a fence or boundary .
artificial watercourse with no flow or a controlled flow used navigation .
a hot spring that erupts periodically ,  ejecting a column of hot water and steam into the air .
a spring that is produced by the emergence of geothermally - heated groundwater from the earth's crust .
a lake contained within a volcanic crater .
a marsh associated with water that contains low concentrations of salts .
a marsh whose water contains a considerable quantity of dissolved salts .
a shallow man - made pond designed to produce salt from sea water .
a pond or lake used for the artificial culture of fish .
an swamp formed of trees and shrubs that grow in saline coastal habitats in the tropics and subtropics .
a lake which is formed under the surface of the earth .
a river that is under the surface of the earth .
a stream that is under the surface of the earth .
a geographical feature associated with water that is under the surface of the earth .
place or area with clustered or scattered buildings and a permanent human population .
an open way for the passage of vehicles ,  persons ,  or animals on land .
a permanent way having one or more rails which provides a track for cars .
a tunnel constructed by human means .
naturally formed ,  subterranean open area or chamber .
an underground or underwater passage .
a stream that branches off and flows away from a main stream channel .
a feature that has been constructed by deliberate human effort .
a cave developed along a fault or fault zone ,  either by movement of the fault or by preferential solution along it .
structure designed to transport water from a remote source ,  usually by gravity .
a permanent walled and roofed construction .
a barrier constructed across a watercourse to control the flow or raise the level of water .
a built structure erected over a depression or obstacle to carry traffic or some facility such as a pipeline .
an excavation in the earth for the purpose of extracting earth materials .
a tract of crop or grazing land ,  as well as the group of buildings with and often surrounding a farmhouse ,  including barns ,  sheds ,  and other outbuildings ,  used for agricultural production .
an open artificial water channel ,  that leads water from a diversion dam or weir completely aside a natural flow ,  often an elevated box structure  ( typically wood )  that follows the natural contours of the land .
a series of connected and aligned mountains or mountain ridges .
a landform that extends above the surrounding terrain in a limited area .
a group of hills bordered by lowlands .
a rounded elevation of limited extent rising above the surrounding land with local relief of less than 300m .
a lower point that allows easier access through a mountain range .
a glacier found in mountain terrain .
a region of general uniform slope ,  comparatively level ,  and of considerable extent .
a high ,  steep ,  or overhanging face of rock .
a cliff that is a margin of a sea or ocean .
an area of flat ,  low - lying land adjacent to a seacoast and separated from the interior by other features .
a landform consisting of loose rock particles such as sand ,  gravel ,  shingle ,  pebbles ,  cobble ,  or even shell fragments along the shoreline of a body of water .
a landform consisting of loose rock particles such as sand ,  gravel ,  shingle ,  pebbles ,  cobble ,  or even shell fragments along the shoreline of a sea .
a landform consisting of loose rock particles such as sand ,  gravel ,  shingle ,  pebbles ,  cobble ,  or even shell fragments along the shoreline of a lake .
a feature associated with a volcano ,  an opening ,  or rupture ,  in the earth's surface or crust ,  which allows hot ,  molten rock ,  ash and gases to escape from deep below the surface .
a feature formed by cooled lava ,  the molten rock that is expelled by a volcano during an eruption .
a feature formed by the collapse of land following a volcanic eruption .
a region rendered barren or partially barren by environmental extremes ,  especially by low rainfall .
area of dry or relatively dry land surrounded by water or low wetland .
an island constructed by human effort .
a depression caused by erosion by water or ice .
a tract of alluvium formed at the mouth of a river where the deposition ofsome of its load exceeds its rate of removal ,  crossed by the divergent channels  ( distributaries )  of the river .
an island formed of trees and shrubs that grow in saline coastal habitats in the tropics and subtropics .
an area in which grasses  ( graminae )  are a significant component of the vegetation .
an upland moor or sandy area dominated by low shrubby vegetation including heather .
a habitat of rolling or flat terrain where grasses predominate .
land having a cover of trees ,  shrubs ,  or both .
a tunnel formed by the flow of molten lava ,  which has subsequently drained out .
an area with a high density of trees .
treeless ,  level ,  or gently rolling plains characteristic of arctic or subarctic regions ,  having a permanently frozen subsoil ,  and usually supporting low growing vegetation such as lichens ,  mosses ,  and stunted shrubs .
a geographical feature modified by humans by the preparation of the land ,  usually for the purposes of growing crops .
an area of land ,  usually relatively small ,  enclosed or otherwise and used for agricultural purposes .
an intentional planting of trees or shrubs maintained for food ,  typically fruit ,  production .
a place where grapes are grown for making wine ,  raisins or table grapes .
an intentional planting of a crop ,  on a large scale ,  usually for uses other than cereal production or pasture .
a forest that has been intentionally established by human intervention .
a small road ,  generally not paved .
a geographical region whose affairs and population are administered by an authority .
a political entitity established by more than one state and with at least some influence over the affairs of its member states .
a spring whose water contains a significant amount of dissolved minerals ,  that derive from the rocks through which the water flows .
a spring whose water contains a significant amount of dissolved derivatives of sulfur .
an arid terrain with clay - rich soil that has been extensively eroded by wind and water .
a valley that no longer has a surface flow of water .
a valley that contains ,  and has been formed by ,  a stream .
a ridge of rocks ,  lying near the surface of the sea ,  which may be visible at low tide ,  but is usually covered by water .
a hydrographic feature characterized by the dominance of snow or ice .
a mass of glacier ice that covers surrounding terrain and is greater than 50 , 000 km2 .
a large ,  slow moving river of ice ,  formed from compacted layers of snow ,  that slowly deforms and flows in response to gravity .
soil at or below the freezing point of water  ( 0c or 32f )  for two or more years .
a geographical region that serves the purpose of keeping two or more other areas  ( often ,  but not necessarily ,  countries )  distant from one another ,  for whatever reason .
a geographical area ,  usually the frontier or boundary between two or more military powers  ( or alliances )  ,  where military activity is not permitted ,  usually by peace treaty ,  armistice or other bilateral or multilateral agreement .
an opening of the sea into the land .
a circular or round inlet with a narrow entrance .
a ditch that supplies water to surrounding land .
a ditch that collects water from the surrounding land .
the sloping margin of a watercourse ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
the sloping margin of a stream ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
the sloping margin of a river ,  serving to confine it to its natural channel .
a habitat that is in or on water .
a dome - shaped ice mass that covers less than 50 , 000 km2 of land area  ( usually covering a highland area )  .
a region of permanent snow in mountainous areas or high latitudes .
the region occupied by any more or less continuous ,  directed movement of ocean water that flows in one of the earth's oceans .
a shallow stretch of a river or stream ,  where the current is above the average stream velocity and where the water forms small rippled waves as a result .
chains of rocks or coral at or near the surface of water constructed by man .
aragonite structures produced by living organisms ,  found in shallow ,  marine waters with little nutrients in the water .
an alkaline flat ,  in the context of a marine environment .
a section of a river or stream that diverts from the main course and rejoins later .
the upper part of a river system ,  denoting the upper basin and source streams of a river .
an area of grassland or pasture beside a river ,  subject to seasonal flooding .
a deep natural hollow near the crest of a mountain ,  usually formed by a glacier .
a small ,  isolated ,  fertile or green area in a desert region ,  usually having a spring or well .
an artificial working of peatland to remove the peat .
a road or railway elevated by a bank ,  usually across a broad body of water or wetland .
a lake formed of a natural deposit of alphalt ,  a black ,  highly viscous liquid or semi - solid composed of fossil hydrocarbons .
an oceanic island ,  often having a characteristic ring - like shape surrounding a lagoon .
a linear shoaling landform feature within a body of water .
a hole in coastal rock through which sea water is forced by a rising tide or waves and spurted through an outlet into the air .
relatively narrow ,  deep depression with steep sides ,  the bottom of which generally has a continuous slope .
a hill of sand built by eolian processes .
a valley that contains ,  and has been formed by ,  a river .
narrow section of land in a body of water connecting two larger land areas .
a feature shaped by the dissolution of a soluble layer or layers of bedrock ,  usually carbonate rock such as limestone or dolomite .
a landform elevated above the surrounding area .
an accumulation of boulders ,  stones ,  or other debris carried and deposited by a glacier .
an artificial slope or wall ,  usually earthen ,  which parallels the course of a river ,  built for the purpose of containing the river .
an elevated area of land with a flat top and sides that are usually steep cliffs .
a rounded elevated area .
the exposed summit of a ridge ,  mountain ,  or peak not covered with ice or snow within an ice field or glacier .
an elevated and comparatively level expanse of land .
a desert plain characterized by a surface veneer of gravel or stones .
a tributary valley with the floor at a higher relief than the main channel into which it flows .
rain - fed ,  potentially deep peatlands occurring principally in lowland areas across much of northern europe ,  as well as in the former ussr ,  north america and parts of the southern hemisphere .
flat or concave peatlands with a string - like pattern of hummocks  ( hence the name )  ,  found principally in northern scandinavia but occurring in the western parts of the former ussr and in north america .
peatlands with a shallow peat layer ,  only about 500 mm thick ,  dominated by sedges and grasses .
peatland typified by characteristic high mounds ,  each with a permanently frozen core ,  with wet depressions between the mounds .
forested peatlands including both rain -  and groundwater - fed types ,  commonly recorded in tropical regions with high rainfall .
feature on the ocean floor at a depth of 3500  -  6000 meters .
a wetland that forms when mud is deposited by the tides ,  rivers ,  sea or oceans .
broken rock that appears at the bottom of crags ,  mountain cliffs or valley shoulders .
a natural depression or hole in the surface topography caused by the removal of soil or bedrock ,  often both ,  by water .
a dry lakebead consisting of fine - grained sediments infused with alkali salts .
a lake from which there is no outflow of water ,  either on the surface as rivers ,  or underground by flow or diffusion through rock or permeable material .
a lake permanently covered by ice .
a lake which has layers of water which do not intermix .
a lake ,  part of whose margin is formed by an ice mass ,  ice cap or glacier ,  the ice having obstructed the natural drainage of the land .
a lake in a glacially eroded valley ,  which has been eroded below sea level .
a lake which is formed when a wide meander from a stream or a river is cut off to form a lake .
a lake which forms as a result of subsidence along a geological fault in the earth's tectonic plates .
a spring whose flow is intermittent .
a spring whose flow is continuous .
the water mass of an ocean directly above a continental shelf .
the water mass of an ocean that is not above a continental shelf .
an open ocean region .
the zone of an ocean from the surface to 200m where photosynthesis can occur ,  due to the penetration of light .
the zone of an ocean below 200m ,  in which photosynthesis cannot occur due to the lack of light .
the one of an ocean below the 10degc thermocline down to a temperature of 4degc .
the zone of the ocean below the bathypelagic zone ,  with its lowest boundary at about 6000m .
the zone of an ocean immediately below the photic zone down to a depth where the water temperature is 10degc  ( the thermocline )  .
the zone of an ocean in oceanic trenches ,  lying between 6000m and 10 , 000m .
a fissure in the earths's surface from which geothermally heated water issues .
a hole in the earth's crust from which steam and gases are emitted .
a fumarole that emits sulfurous gases .
a hydrothermal vent found on the ocean floor .
a sea that is not connected with an ocean .
a group of geographically or geologically associated islands .
an island that lies on a continental shelf .
an island that does not sit on a continental shelf ,  and is of volcanic origin .
the extended perimeter of each continent ,  which is covered during interglacial periods such as the current epoch by relatively shallow sea .
an estuary whose river output is less than the marine input .
an estuary whose river output and marine input are more even ,  with river flow still dominant ;  turbulence induces more mixing of salt water upward than the reverse .
an estuary whose river output greatly exceeds marine input ;  there is little mixing ,  and thus a sharp contrast between fresh surface water and saline bottom water .
an estuary whose river output is less than the marine input .
an estuary located in regions with high evaporation ,  there is no freshwater input and in fact salinity increases inland ;  overall flow is inward at the surface ,  downwells at the inland terminus ,  and flows outward subsurface .
an estuary that varies dramatically depending on freshwater input ,  and is capable of changing from a wholly marine embayment to any of the other estuary types .
a wetland associated with the part of the land adjoining or near a sea or ocean .
a wetland found in upland areas ,  characterised by acidic soils .
a freshwater peat land with chemically basic  ( which roughly means alkaline )  ground water .
a wetland that features permanent inundation of large areas of land by shallow bodies of water ,  generally with a substantial number of hummocks ,  or dry - land protrusions .
a small ,  slow - moving stream or creek ;  usually located in low - lying areas .
a fen which has developed to the point where it supports trees .
a class of complex shallow wetlands in central ,  southern and eastern africa ,  particularly in zambia and zimbabwe .
a danbo associated with a headwater .
a dambo associated with a river .
a palustrine wetland with deep ,  acidic ,  sandy ,  peat soils .
a level tract lying at a small depth below the surface of water ,  or alternately covered and left bare by the tide .
a wetland that forms when mud is deposited by a stream .
a wetland whose water that contains low concentrations of salts .
a flat or very gently sloping areas of the deep ocean basin floor .
a broad ,  low relief crater that results from a phreatic eruption or explosion caused by groundwater contact with hot lava or magma .
a crater formed by a volcano ,  within which occurs a vent  ( or vents )  from which magma erupts as gases ,  lava ,  and ejecta .
an opening ,  or rupture ,  in the earth's surface or crust ,  which allows hot ,  molten rock ,  ash and gases to escape from deep below the surface .
a valley that contains ,  or contained ,  a glacier and was formed by glacial activity .
the parallel ridges of till deposited along the sides of an alglacier .
a moriane formed when the inside lateral moraines of two glaciers merge together .
a till covered area with irregular topography and no ridges ,  often forming gently rolling hills or plains .
ridges of unconsolidated debris deposited at the snout or end of the glacier .
a plain where a stream meanders across an area with a very low gradient ,  usually with a fairly continuous discharge .
an extensive flat plain of glacial till that forms when a sheet of ice becomes detached from the main body of a glacier and melts in place depositing the sediments it carried .
an area which is subject to periodic flooding .
the stream channel and adjacent areas that carry flood flows in a flood plain .
area of a flood plane covered by the flood ,  but which do not experience a strong current .
arelatively flat and gently sloping landform found at the base of a range of hills or mountains ,  formed by the deposition of alluvial soil over a long period of time by one or more streams coming from the mountains .
a plain that originally formed in a lacustrine environment ,  that is ,  as the bed of a lake ,  but from which the water has disappeared ,  by natural drainage ,  evaporation or other geophysical processes .
an area of land of low topographic relief that historically supported grasses and herbs ,  with few trees ,  and having generally a mesic  ( moderate or temperate )  climate .
a grassland of the tropics or subtropics with scattered trees .
a plain without trees  ( apart from those near rivers and lakes )  ;  it is similar to a prairie ,  although a prairie is generally considered as being dominated by tall grasses ,  while short grasses are said to be normal in the steppe .
a narrow ,  verical cave passage ,  often developed along a joint but not necessarily so .
a mountain rising from the ocean seafloor that does not reach to the water's surface  ( sea level )  ,  and thus is not an island .
a flat - topped seamount .
grassland used for grazing of ungulate livestock as part of a farm or ranch .
a steep - sided valley on the sea floor of the continental slope .
the ground surface that lies beneath a lake .
a continental island connected to its adjacent land by a natural feature ,  such as a causeway .
a pond that has formed as a consequence of the activities of beavers ,  building a beaver dam .
a dry  ( salt )  lake in the saharan area of africa that stays dry in the summer ,  but receive some water in the winter .
the point where a tributary joins a more major river .
the seabed below the end of the continental shelf  ( the shelf break )  .
the continental rise is below the continental slope ,  but landward of the abyssal plains .
hemispheric - scale long but narrow topographic depressions of the sea floor .
an elongated whale - shaped hill formed by glacial action .
a lake that has either permanently or temporally lost its water .
a stream that has either permanently or temporally lost its water .
a flat expanse of ground covered with salt and other minerals ,  usually shining white under the sun .
a transition zone between different physiogeographic provinces that involves an elevation differential ,  often involving high cliffs .
an escarpment resulting from a fault .
a long ,  winding ridge of stratified sand and gravel which occur in glaciated and formerly glaciated regions of europe and north america .
a long and narrow upland with steep sides .
an open - pit mine from which rock or minerals are extracted .
a bed of loose sand mixed with water forming a soft ,  shifting mass that yields easily to pressure .
an area reclaimed from the sea by diking and draining .
an isolated hill with steep sides and a small flat top ,  smaller than mesas and plateaus .
the raised fault block bounded by normal faults .
a depressed block of land bordered by parallel faults .
a regions or area bounded by drainage divides and occupied by a drainage system ;  specifically the tract of country that gathers water originating as precipitation and contributes it to a particular stream channel or system of channels ,  or to a lake ,  reservoir ,  or other body of water .
the separation between neighbouring drainage basins  ( catchments )  .
a watershed such that water falling on one side of the line eventually travels to one ocean or body of water ,  and water on the other side travels to another ,  generally on the opposite side of the continent .
a facility in which fish are raised commercially in tanks or enclosures ,  usually for food .
a facility where eggs of fish are hatched under artificial conditions .
a paddy field for the cultivation of rice .
a flooded parcel of arable land used for growing rice and other semiaquatic crops .
a large mass of detached land ice in the sea or stranded in shallow water .
fields of ice ,  formed in regions of perennial frost .
area covered with low - growing or stunted perennial vegetation and usually not mixed with trees .
a shrubland area found primarily in regions with a mediterranean climate  ( mid ,  wet winters and hot dry summers )  often shaped by wildfires .
a valley created by the formation of a rift ,  i .e .
the general region of indefinite width that extends from the sea inland to the first major change in terrain features .
that part of the land in immediate contact with a body of water including the area between high and low water lines .
a body of land jutting out into and nearly surrounded by water .
a deposition landform found off coasts .
a portion of a glacier characterized by rapid flow and a chaotic crevassed surface .
a valley or trough between two dunes .
a landform sunken or depressed below the surrounding area .
a crater caused by the impact of a meteor .
a fluvioglacial landform occurring as the result of blocks of ice calving from the front of a receding glacier and becoming partially to wholly buried by glacial outwash .
the plain formed by the large amounts of silt and sediment ,  picked up as a glacier erodes the underlying rocks as it moves slowly downhill ,  and at the snout of the glacier ,  meltwater can carry this sediment away from the glacier and deposit it on a broad plain .
a sandy depression in a sand dune ecosystem  ( psammosere )  caused by the removal of sediments by wind .
a fan - shaped deposit formed where a fast flowing stream flattens ,  slows ,  and spreads typically at the exit of a canyon onto a flatter plain .
a convergence of neighboring alluvial fans into a single apron of deposits against a slope .
the area of the foreshore and seabed that is exposed to the air at low tide and submerged at high tide ,  i .e . ,  the area between tide marks .
pools formed as a high tide comes in over a rocky shore .
the tide zone that is flooded during high tide only ,  and is a highly saline environment .
the tidal zone that is mostly submerged ,  only being exposed at the point of low tide and for a longer period of time during extremely low tides .
a deep fissure in snow or ice .
a cavity developed along a joint and elongate in cross - section .
a cave in a lava flow .
a cave containing a stream or active speleothems .
a cave from which a stream flows or formerly did so and which cannot be followed upstream to the surface .
a large closed depression draining underground ,  witha flat floor across which there may be an intermittent or perennial stream and which may be liable to flood and become a lake .
a cave in present - day or emerged sea cliffs ,  formed by wave attack or solution .
a secondary mineral deposit formed in caves ,  most commonly calcite .
the zone where voids in the rock are partly filled .
zone where voids in the rock are completely filled .
a speleothem projecting vertically upwards from a cave floor and formed by precipitation from drips .
a speleothem hanging downwards from a roof or wall ,  of cylindrical or conical form ,  usually with a central hollow tube .
a closed depression draining underground in karst ,  ofsimple but variable form ,  e .g .
karst developed in soluble beds underlying other rock formations ;  the surface may or may not be affected by the karst development .
karst developed in eolian calcarenite when the development of karst features has taken place at the same time as the lithification of dune sand .
karst completely pitted by closed depressions so that divides between them form a crudely polygonal network .
karst dominated by closed depressions ,  chiefly dolines ,  perforating a simple surface .
the liquid that can be mechanically extracted an orange .
vomit is a bodily fluid consisting of the expulsed contents of the stomach of an organism disgorged through the mouth or nose .
an abiotic  mesoscopic feature  made of the mineral material of the crust of the earth .
rock whose pieces are at least two millimeters  ( 2mm )  in its largest dimension  ( about 1 / 12 of an inch )  and no more than 75 millimeters  ( about 3 inches )  .
a comparatively elevated area on an icecap .
a volcanic caldera that has been partially filled by a new central cone .
a chain of volcanic islands or mountains formed by plate tectonics as an oceanic tectonic plate subducts under another tectonic plate and produces magma .
a volcanic arc formed by the subduction of oceanic crust below continental crust .
a volcanic arc formed by the subduction of oceanic crust other oceanic crust on an adjacent tectonic plate .
a region of the earth's crust that is prone to localized volcanic activity .
a volcanic field of small ,  scattered volcanic vents .
a cone made of material ejected from a volcano .
a device for raising and lowering boats between stretches of water of different levels on river and canal waterways .
an area of land and / or a body of water especially dedicated to the protection and maintenance of biological diversity ,  and of natural and associated cultural resources ,  and managed through legal or other effective means .
a natural / cultural feature of outstanding or unique value because of its inherent rarity ,  representative of aesthetic qualities or cultural significance .
a protected forest or woodland area in the united states .
a conservation designation denoting a protected area in the united kingdom .
a protected area of the sea usually established to preserve a specific habitat and ensure the ecosystem is sustained for the organisms that exist there .
a protected area of importance for wildlife ,  flora ,  fauna or features of geological or other special interest ,  which is reserved and managed for conservation and to provide special opportunities for study or research .
a designation for certain protected areas of the united states managed by the united states fish and wildlife service .
a wetland protected by the terms of the ramsar convention  ( the convention on wetlands of international importance ,  especially as waterfowl habitat )  .
a united kingdom government conservation designation for a nature reserve of national significance for biological or earth science interest .
a reserve of land ,  usually ,  but not always declared and owned by a national government ,  protected from most human development and pollution .
an island ,  usually the consequence of the activity of a submarine \ nvolcano ,  that only exists for a short period or short periods of time after its formation ,  then being eroded or otherwise disappearing beneath the \ nsurface of a body of water .
a large area of brine on the ocean basin near cold seep vents which release methane into the water .
a distinctive ,  flat - topped ,  steep - sided volcano formed when lava \ nerupts through a thick glacier or ice sheet .
a volcano with more than one feature .
a shield volcano that isformed mostly of pyroclastic and highly \ nexplosive eruptions rather than relatively fluid basaltic lava issuing from \ nvents or fissures on the surface of the volcano .
an area where wells can be drilled to obtain elements contained in \ nsolution in hot brines or to tap heat energy .
a protected area with the purpose of protecting and managing wild \ nlife .
a protected area that is a specific site  ( such as a forest ,  mountain ,  lake ,  desert ,  monument ,  building ,  complex ,  or city )  that has been nominated and confirmed for inclusion on the list maintained by the international world heritage programme administered by the unesco world heritage committee .
an international conservation designation given by unesco under its \ nprogramme on man and the biosphere  ( mab )  .
a lake purposefully constructed .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of maintaining water levels in a canal or canals .
a thick ,  floating platform of ice that forms where a glacier or ice mass flows down to a coastline and onto the ocean surface .
a section of the earths's crust that is demarcated by faults or flexures .
that part of the land in immediate contact with a lake .
the channel bottom of a stream ;  the physical confine of the normal water flow .
the channel bottom of a river ;  the physical confine of the normal water flow .
the place where a stream discharges into a lagoon ,  lake ,  or the sea .
the end of a stream where it enters a standing water body such as a lake ,  sea or ocean .
a lake that is not permanently filled with water ,  at times being dry .
a watercourse whose flow is not continuous .
an area that is sometimes inundated or saturated by surface or ground water sufficient to support ,  and that under normal circumstances do support ,  a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions .
an isthmus or other land connection between what at other times are separate land masses which allows animals and plants to cross and colonise new lands .
a long and narrow sheet of ice projecting out from the coastline .
a large sea or ocean inlet larger than a bay ,  deeper than a bight ,  wider than a fjord ,  or it may identify a narrow sea or ocean channel between two bodies of land .
a narrow channel of water that connects two larger bodies of water ,  and thus lies between two land masses .
the physical confine of a river ,  slough or ocean strait consisting of a bed and banks .
built by fragments  ( called ejecta )  thrown up  ( ejected )  from a volcanic vent ,  piling up around the vent in the shape of a cone with a central crater .
a cone that is composed of particles of silt to sand size .
a cone built almost entirely of loose volcanic fragments called cinders  ( pumice ,  pyroclastics ,  or tephra )  .
a volcanic cone formed of molten lava ejected from a vent somewhat like taffy .
a volcano created by geologically excreted liquids and gases ,  although there are several different processes which may cause such activity .
a large volcano with shallowly - sloping sides .
a tall ,  conical volcano composed of many layers of hardened lava ,  tephra ,  and volcanic ash .
an underwater fissures in the earth's surface from which magma can erupt .
an underwater mountain range ,  formed by plate tectonics .
a volcano produced by subglacial eruptions or eruptions beneath the surface of a lake melted into a glacier or ice mass by the rising lava .
a linear volcanic vent through which lava erupts ,  usually without any explosive activity .
a large ,  swirling body of water produced by ocean tides .
an elevated area such as a hill ,  ridge or old lava dome inside or downslope from an area of active volcanism .
the shallow part of a stream which can be easily crossed .
a mound of earth - covered ice found in the arctic ,  subarctic ,  and antarctica that can reach up to 70 metres in height and up to 2 kilometres in diameter .
a natural formation where a rock arch forms ,  with a natural passageway through underneath .
a beach or wave cut platform raised above the shore line by a relative fall in the sea level .
a fertile low - lying raised beach found on the some of the coastlines of ireland and scotland ,  in particular in the outer hebrides .
a submergent coastal landform that forms where sea levels rise relative to the land either as a result of eustatic sea level change ;  where the global sea levels rise or isostatic sea level change ;  where the land sinks .
a geological landform consisting of a steep and often vertical column or columns of rock in the sea near a coast .
a deposition landform such as a spit or bar which forms a narrow piece of land between an island or offshore rock and a mainland shore ,  or between two islands or offshore rocks .
the narrow flat area often seen at the base of a sea cliff caused by the action of the waves .
a natural karst landform consisting of a flat ,  incised surface of exposed limestone that resembles artificial pavement .
an island that lies in a river .
an island that lies in a lake .
an area of the ocean floor where hydrogen sulfide ,  methane and other hydrocarbon - rich fluid seepage occurs .
the surface that underlies an ocean .
a bend in a stream .
a major class of ecologically similar communities of plants ,  animals ,  and other organisms .
a thin ,  almost knife - like ,  ridge of rock which is typically formed when two glaciers erode parallel u - shaped valleys .
a feature of a glacier ,  in which dirt ,  which has fallen into a hollow in the ice ,  forms a coating which insulates the ice below .
a cluster of dozens to hundreds of similarly shaped ,  sized and oriented drumlins .
an isolated hill ,  knob ,  ridge ,  or small mountain that rises abruptly from a gently sloping or virtually level surrounding plain .
a terrace associated with a kame .
a fan - shaped body of sediments deposited by braided streams from a melting glacier .
a lake formed either by the damming action of a moraine or ice dam during the retreat of a melting glacier ,  or one formed by meltwater trapped against an ice mass due to isostatic depression of the crust around the ice .
a deep but narrow valley with a 'u' shaped cross - section and frequently a 'u' shaped plan which is usually found filled with glacial till .
a small tunnel valley .
a steep - sided depression formed by the melting of permafrost ;  it may contain a lake .
a small wooded valley ,  either u -  or v - shaped .
a shallow cave - like opening at the base of a bluff or cliff .
a ridge on a hillside formed when saturated soil particles expand ,  then contract as they dry ,  causing them to move slowly downhill .
a very powerful whirlpool .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of containing a flood ,  an overflow of water from a body of water that sumerges land .
an open area in a forest .
an aquaduct to transport water from one river basin to another one ,  to solve problems of hydrographic imbalance .
a biome that applies to the terrestrial realm .
a biome that applies to the marine realm .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of generating electricity .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of providing drinking water .
a reservoir constructed for the purpose of providing water for irrigation .
a lake constructed ,  or modified ,  for the chief purpose of providing an amenity .
a lake that is long ,  narrow ,  and finger - shaped ,  usually found in a glacial trough .
a lake or estuary that is formed at the mouth of a river where flow is blocked by a bar of sediments .
an intermittent lake unique to the limestone areas of ireland ,  mostly west of the river shannon .
a mountain lake that is formed in a cirque excavated by a glacier .
a glacier that flows into the sea .
a glacier on a plateau or high area ,  smaller than an ice sheet .
a glacier that forms in a mountain valley .
a glacier fed by an ice sheet .
a region of low topographic relief as a consequence of erosion by streams .
a volcanic landform which resembles a true volcanic crater ,  but differs in that it is not an actual vent from which lava has erupted .
a volcanic field of scattered volcanic vents .
a place where ships may shelter from the weather or are stored .
a harbor constructed by human agency .
a harbor which is formed by a natural landform where a part of a body \ nof water is protected and \ ndeep enough to furnish anchorage .
an area of land on which a college or university and related \ ninstitutional buildings are situated .
a dam constructed for the purpose of generating electricity from the \ nwater stored behind it .
a facility ,  permanent or temporary ,  on land ,  in air ,  space or water ,  \ nwhere scientific research or measurements can be undertaken .
a dam constructed for the purpose of holding water in a reservoir for \ nirrigation .
a dam constructed for the purpose of controlling flooding .
an area of calm water unaffected by the current of a stream .
a quarry from which gravel is extracted .
an excavation of the earth's surface to provide passage for a road ,  railway ,  canal ,  etc .
an opening of the sea into the land ,  or of a lake into its shore .
an opening of a lake into its shore .
a mountain or a hill .
the exit or point of discharge of a stream into another stream ,  lake or sea .
the summit of a mount .
a tall ,  slender ,  spire - shaped rock projecting from a level or more gently sloping surface .
the ground surface that lies beneath a sea .
a hollow eroded by the force of the falling water at the base of a waterfall ,  particularly by the eddying effect .
any enclosed water area in pack ice other than a lead ,  not large enough to be called open water .
that part of the land in immediate contact with a sea ,  including the intertidal zone .
the line of contact between a body of water and the land .
one of a series of glacial lakes connected by a single stream or a braided stream system .
a lake associated with a glacier .
a low oval elevation in areas with permafrost ,  frequently peat bogs ,  where a perennial ice lens has developed within the soil .
a stream whose course is a direct consequence of the original slope of the surface upon which it developed ,  i .e . ,  a stream that follows the slope of the original land .
a stream whose course has been determined by selective headward erosion along weak strata .
a stream whose course follows the original relief ,  but at a lower level than the original slope  ( e .g . ,  flows down a course determined by the underlying strata in the same direction )  .
a stream flowing in the opposite direction of the consequent drainage .
a stream that has an almost random drainage often forming dendritic patterns .
a stream or river which flows into another river  ( a parent river )  or body of water but which may not flow directly into the sea .
a narrow and shallow incision into soil resulting from erosion by overland flow that has been focused into a thin thread by soil surface roughness .
an incised meander on a river .
an intrusive igneous body .its thickness is usually much smaller than its other two dimensions .
a linear structural depression that extends laterally over a distance ,  while being less steep than a trench .
an obstruction in a stream constructed by a beaver .
the portion of the ground surface which lies below water .
a saline lake that is not permanently filled with water ,  at times being dry .
an oxbow lake that is not permanently filled with water ,  at times being dry .
a pond that is not permanently filled with water ,  at times being dry .
a gently inclined underground tunnel bringing water for irrigation from an aquifer .
a reservoir that is not permanently filled with water ,  at times being dry .
the lower terminus of a wadi where it widens into an adjoining floodplain ,  depression ,  or water body .
a step - like feature between higher and lower ground: a relatively flat or gently inclined shelf of earth ,  backed and fronted by steep slopes or manmade detaining walls .
a peatland whose development is mostly independent of basins or topographical features where water collects ;  it simply covers the landscape like a blanket .
the ground surface that lies beneath a pond .
the ground surface that lies beneath a reservoir .
a generally circular saucer or bowl - shaped depression caused by volcanic or meteorite explosive action .
a cut to provide passage for a road .
a patch of ground ,  distinct from and slightly above the surrounding plain or wetland .
a surface stream that disappears into an underground channel ,  or dries up in an arid area .
the exit or point of discharge of a ditch .
a mound of earth material ,  at the base of a slope and the associated scoured area .
an irregular mass of fallen rock at the base of a cliff or steep slope .
a tunnel through which a canal passes .
a channel formed as a result of a stream cutting through a meander neck .
a former stream or distributary no longer carrying flowing water ,  but still evident due to lakes ,  wetland ,  topographic or vegetation patterns .
a stream that has been substantially ditched ,  diked ,  or straightened .
a deep narrow slot ,  notch ,  or groove in a cliff .
a relatively undissected upland between adjacent stream valleys .
a linear elevation on an icecap .
a ridge of sand just inland and parallel to the beach ,  usually in series .
a gentle slope ,  with a generally smooth surface ,  particularly found around groups of islands and seamounts .
a site at which refuse is dumped ,  normally filling a natural or artificial depression .
a low obstruction built across the path of s stream to raise its level .
an annular depression that may not be continuous ,  located at the base of many seamounts ,  islands ,  and other isolated elevations .
a high altitude or high latitude bare ,  flat area covered with large angular rocks .
an undersea area of subdued corrugations off baja california .
the low part of a gap or saddle separating basins .
an irregularly shaped hill or mound composed of sorted or stratified sand and gravel that is deposited in contact with the glacial ice .
a low tract of land ,  especially when moist or marshy .
a man - made watercourse ,  or makeshift aqueduct ,  often an artificial channel which supplies water to a watermill or its mill pond ,  collecting water from upstream of the mill so that the natural level of the driving water is above the level of the stream at the mill .
a beach which is armoured with pebbles or small to medium sized cobbles .
a pond ,  often temporary or seasonal ,  used as a drinking place by mammals and birds .
a water body that is not permanently filled with water ,  at times being dry .
a drainage basin from which there is no outflow of water ,  either on the surface as rivers ,  or underground by flow or diffusion through rock or permeable material .
an area of unfrozen ground surrounded by permafrost .
a dam constructed for more than one purpose .
an auxiliary dam constructed to confine the reservoir created by a primary dam either to permit a higher water elevation and storage or to \ nlimit the extent of a reservoir for increased efficiency .
a dam designed to reduce flow velocity and control soil erosion .
a dam that only partly restricts a waterway ,  creating a faster channel \ nthat resists the accumulation of sediment .
a dam designed to control flooding .
a dam designed to divert all or a portion of the flow of a river from its natural course .
a region at which weapons ,  typically military ,  are tested .
a weapons test site at which nuclear weapons are ,  or have been ,  \ ntested .
a region in which military personnel train .
a bounded area of land ,  or water ,  usually in its natural or \ nsemi - natural  ( landscaped )  state and set aside for some purpose ,  usually to \ ndo with recreation or conservation .
a raised walkway over water ,  supported by piles or pillars .
a place  ( or group of physical sites )  in which evidence of past \ nactivity is preserved  ( either prehistoric or historic or contemporary )  ,  and \ nwhich is ,  has been ,  or may be ,  investigated using the discipline of \ narchaeology .
a building or region where sports activities can be carried out .
a sports facility constructed for \ nskiing and allied sports that require snow and / or ice .
a deep valley with steep sides ,  typically of limestone ,  in part \ nsubmerged by the sea .
a habitat that is solely in the air .
a habitat that is in or on a sea or ocean containing high concentrations of dissolved salts and other total dissolved solids  ( typically  > 35 grams dissolved salts per litre )  .
a habitat that is in or on a body of water  ( as in estuaries )  containing medium concentrations of dissolved salts and other total dissolved solids  ( typically 0 .5 to 35 grams dissolved salts per litre )  .
a habitat in or on trees .
a habitat that is below the surface of the earth .
incorporated populated place .
a biome that applies to the freshwater realm .
a biome consisting of the spaces within rocks ,  such as pores between aggregate grains .
a mass of the mineral material of the crust of the earth .
the outflow of water from a mine .
a mine drainage with an acidic ph .
any material within 2 m from the earth's surface that is in contact with the atmosphere ,  with the exclusion of living organisms ,  areas with continuous ice not covered by other material ,  and water bodies deeper than 2 m .
the part of an elevation or depression between the relatively flat surrounding area and the peak of a mount or the bottom of a depression .
water that has been adversely affected in quality by anthropogenic influence .
a substance ,  usually composed primarily of carbohydrates ,  fats ,  water and / or proteins ,  that can be eaten or drunk by an animal or human being for nutrition or pleasure .
feces is an excreta consisting of waste products expelled from an animal's digestive tract through the anus  ( or cloaca )  during defecation .
an environmental feature that is ,  or can be ,  contained and is predominantly composed of one or a few types of stuff .
the mixture of gases  ( roughly  ( by molar content / volume: 78% nitrogen ,  20 .95% oxygen ,  0 .93% argon ,  0 .038% carbon dioxide ,  trace amounts of other gases ,  and a variable amount  ( average around 1% )  of water vapor )  that surrounds the planet earth .
the liquid form of dihydrogen monoxide .
sediment is an environmental substance comprised of any particulate matter that can be transported by fluid flow and which eventually is deposited as a layer of solid particles \ non the bedor bottom of a body of water or other liquid .
minute solid particles with diameters less than 500 micrometers .
a habitat that is on or at the boundary of the surface of the earth .
rock formed from molten magma .
an igneous rock that results from the crystallization of a magma below the surface of the earth .
an igneous rock that results from magma reaching the surface either as lava or fragmental ejecta .
a rock formed by deposition of either clastic sediments ,  organic matter ,  or chemical precipitates  ( evaporites )  ,  followed by compaction of the particulate matter and cementation during diagenesis .
a rock formed by subjecting any rock type  ( including previously - formed metamorphic rock )  to different temperature and pressure conditions than those in which the original rock was formed .
wastewater that is contaminated with feces or urine , 
a habitat having at least one environmental quality that tends towards either the largest or smallest element of the set .
a biome in which the ph is  < ph3 .
a biome in which the ph is  > ph9 .
a biome characterized by high gas or liquid pressure ,  inhabited by barophilic  ( piezophilic )  organisms .
a biome characterized by a concentration of salt at least 2m .
a biome characterized by an average temperature of at least 60deg c . inhabited by thermophilic organisms .
a biome characterized by an average temperature of 15deg c or lower .
a biome characterized by an average temperature of at least 80deg c . inhabited by hyperthermophilic organisms .
a biome characterized by a high osmolarity ,  typically the result of a high concentration of sugars .
a habitat that is in or on an environmental feature or material derived from human activity .
a habitat that is in or on a living thing .
the dead body of an animal .
a complex aggregation of microorganisms marked by the excretion of a protective and adhesive matrix ;  usually adhering to a substratum .
a natural object originating in outer space that survives an impact with the earth's surface without being destroyed .
a spatial region having environmental qualities which may sustain an organism or a community of organisms .
a habitat that is in or on a body of water containing low concentrations of dissolved salts and other total dissolved solids  (  < 0 .5 grams dissolved salts per litre )  .
the rigid organs that form part of the endoskeleton of vertebrates .
the residual semi - solid material left from domestic or industrial processes ,  or wastewater treatment processes .
urine is a liquid excreta containing water and waste products made by the kidneys ,  stored in the bladder ,  and leaves the body through the urethra .
a stony meteorite that have not been modified due to melting or differentiation of the parent body .
a stony meteorite that is made of material similar to terrestrial basalts or plutonic rocks .
a meteorite that consists of a mixture of iron - nickel metal and silicate minerals .
a meteorite that overwhelmingly of nickel - iron alloys .
a sedimentary rock composed largely of the mineral calcite .
a soft ,  white ,  porous limestone .
a sedimentary rock composed mainly of sand - size mineral or rock grains .
a fine - grained sedimentary rock whose original constituents were clays or muds .
a treated form of sludge ,  sometimes used as a fertilizer in agriculture .
a solid or gel in motor oil caused by the oil gelling or solidifying ,  usually at temperatures lower than 100deg c .
the result of the unintentional release of liquid petroleum hydrocarbon into the environment as a result of human activity .
a viscous liquid state at ambient temperatures or slightly warmer ,  and is both hydrophobic and lipophilic .
the result of the release of natural hydrocarbons to the surface of the earth ,  including beneath the sea ,  by natural geological processes .
marine sediment is a sediment that accumulates in the flat or very gently sloping areas of the deep ocean basin floor .
a hot spring whose water has an alkaline ph .
a hot spring whose water has an acidic ph .
a device or system that supports a biologically active environment .
the dense ,  bottom layer of water in a thermally - stratified lake .
the top - most layer in a thermally stratified lake ,  occurring above the deeper hypolimnion .
the layer within a body of water or air where the temperature changes rapidly with depth .
a clastic rock with a particle size of 4 to 64 millimeters based on the krumbein phi scale of sedimentology .
a rock or rock fragment with a particle size between 64 and 256 mm .
the liquid produced when water percolates through any permeable material .
a highly contaminated site designated by the united states of america's comprehensive environmental response ,  compensation ,  and liability act .
the mineralized or otherwise preserved remains or traces  ( such as footprints )  of animals ,  plants ,  and other organisms .
the aerobically decomposed remnants of organic materials .
a hot spring whose water has a neutral ph .
a dairy product produced by bacterial fermentation of milk .
straw or other material strewn in an animal's enclosure  ( e .g .
water with a very low nutrient level .
water with a high nutrient level .
water with a nutrient level intermediate between eutrophic and oligotrophic .
a habitat that is in or on a body of water containing medium to high concentrations of dissolved salts and other total dissolved solids  (  > =0 .5 grams dissolved salts per litre )  .
arenosols are sandy soils ,  including both soils developed in residual sands after in situ weathering of usually quartz - rich sediments or rock ,  and soils developed in recently deposited sands such as dunes in deserts and beach lands .
anthrosols comprise soils that have been modified profoundly through human activities ,  such as addition of organic materials or household wastes ,  irrigation and cultivation .
alisols are soils that have a higher clay content in the subsoil than in the topsoil as a result of pedogenetic processes  ( especially clay migration )  leading to an argic subsoil horizon .
andosols are soils that develop in volcanic ejecta or glasses under almost any climate  ( except under hyperarid climate conditions )  .
albeluvisols are soils that have ,  beginning within 1 m of the soil surface ,  a clay illuviation horizon with an irregular or broken upper boundary resulting in tonguing of bleached soil material into the illuviation horizon .
acrisols are soils that have a higher clay content in the subsoil than in the topsoil as a result of pedogenetic processes  ( especially clay migration )  leading to an argic subsoil horizon .
cambisols combine soils with at least an incipient subsurface soil formation .
cryosols comprise mineral soils formed in a permafrost environment .
chernozems are soils with a thick black surface layer that is rich in organic matter .
durisols are associated mainly with old surfaces in arid and semi - arid environments and accommodate very shallow to moderately deep ,  moderately well -  to well - drained soils that contain cemented secondary silica  ( sio2 )  within 100 cm of the soil surface .
calcisols are soils in which there is substantial secondary accumulation of lime .
kastanozems are dry grassland soils ,  among them the zonal soils of the short - grass steppe belt ,  south of the eurasian tall - grass steppe belt with chernozems .
leptosols are very shallow soils over continuous rock and soils that are extremely gravelly and / or stony .
lixisols are soils that have a higher clay content in the subsoil than in the topsoil as a result of pedogenetic processes  ( especially clay migration )  leading to an argic subsoil horizon .
histosols comprise soils formed in organic material .
gleysols are wetland soils that ,  unless drained ,  are saturated with groundwater for long enough periods to develop a characteristic gleyic colour pattern .
gypsisols are soils with substantial secondary accumulation of gypsum  ( calcium sulfate )  .
ferralsols represent the classical ,  deeply weathered ,  red or yellow soils of the humid tropics .
nitisols are deep ,  well - drained ,  red ,  tropical soils with diffuse horizon boundaries and a subsurface horizon with more than 30 percent clay and moderate to strong angular blocky structure elements that easily fall apart into characteristic shiny ,  polyhedric  ( nutty )  elements .
luvisols are soils that have a higher clay content in the subsoil than in the topsoil as a result of pedogenetic processes  ( especially clay migration )  leading to an argic subsoil horizon .
phaeozems accommodate soils of relatively wet grassland and forest regions in moderately continental climates .
plinthosols are soils with plinthite ,  petroplinthite or pisoliths .
planosols are soils with a light - coloured ,  surface horizon that shows signs of periodic water stagnation and abruptly overlies a dense ,  slowly permeable subsoil with significantly more clay than the surface horizon .
solonchaks are soils that have a high concentration of soluble salts at some time in the year .
umbrisols are soils in which organic matter has accumulated within the mineral surface soil  ( in most cases with low base saturation )  to the extent that it significantly affects the behaviour and utilization of the soil .
a soil in which there is a high content of expansive clay known as montmorillonite that forms deep cracks in drier seasons or years .
solonetz are soils with a dense ,  strongly structured ,  clayey subsurface horizon that has a high proportion of adsorbed na and / or mg ions .
regosols form a taxonomic remnant group containing all soils that could not be accommodated in any of the other rsgs .
podzols are soils with a typically ash - grey upper subsurface horizon ,  bleached by loss of organic matter and iron oxides ,  on top of a dark accumulation horizon with brown ,  reddish or black illuviated humus and / or reddish fe compounds .
a soil composed of sand ,  silt ,  and clay in relatively even concentration  ( about 40 - 40 - 20% concentration respectively )  .
a peatland dominated by species of the bryophyte sphagnum .
a layer within a water body where the temperature changes rapidly with depth .
a layer within a water body where the chemical composition changes rapidly with depth .
fluvisols accommodate genetically young ,  azonal soils in alluvial deposits .
stagnosols are soils with a perched water table showing redoximorphic features caused by surface water .
technosols are soils whose properties and pedogenesis are dominated by their technical origin .
a depression in the sea floor that results from the collision of continental plates ;  the weight of the sinking plate causes the overlying plate to stretch and thin ,  causing a basin in the overlying plate .
a feature that is .
the biomass remaining after sugarcane stalks are crushed to extract their juice .
a group of hydrous aluminium phyllosilicate  ( phyllosilicates being a subgroup of silicate minerals )  minerals  ( see clay minerals )  ,  that are typically less than 2micrometres in diameter .
a fermented ,  high - moisture forage that can be fed to ruminants .
the liquid extracted from the mashing process during the brewing of beer or whiskey .
water saturated or nearly saturated with salt  ( nacl )  .
a food made by churning fresh or fermented cream or milk .
a fermented salty fish of korean cuisine .
tempeh / tempe is made by a natural culturing and controlled fermentation process that binds soybean particles into a cake form .
an agricultural byproduct ,  the dry stalk of a cereal plant ,  after the nutrient grain or seed has been removed .
a fine powder made from cereals or other starchy food sources .
any of certain cuts of meat taken from the sides ,  belly or back of a pig that may be cured and / or smoked .
the liquid left over after producing butter from cream during the churning process .
a food produced by fermenting rice ,  barley and / or soybeans ,  with salt and the mold koji - kin  ( aspergillus oryzae )  .
must is the juice of freshly pressed grapes ,  that contains various quantities of pulp ,  skins ,  stems ,  and seeds ,  called pomace or grape solids ,  which typically comprise between 7 to 23 percent of the total weight of the must .
a liquid produced from the fermentation of ethanol in a process that yields its key ingredient ,  acetic acid .
vinegar is made by malting barley ,  causing the starch in the grain to turn to maltose .
a building or collection of co - located buildings constructed for \ nthe purpose of undertaking scientific research .
a food preserved by soaking and storing it in vinegar or brine .
a layer of impurities that accumulates at the surface of a liquid  ( especially water or molten metal )  .
a natural chemical precipitate of carbonate minerals ;  typically aragonite ,  but often recrystallized to or primarily calcite ;  which is deposited from the water of mineral springs  ( especially hot springs )  or streams saturated with calcium carbonate .
a large flat plain in karst territory with areas usually 5 to 400 km2 .
the narrow region of soil that is directly influenced by root secretions and associated soil microorganisms .
soil that is not penetrated by the root systems of plants .
the dwelling of an animal or group of similar animals .
mass of ice ,  often dome shaped ,  resting on rock and surrounded either by an ice shelf ,  or partly by an ice shelf and partly by sea ;  no rock is exposed and there may be none above sea - level .
a glacier covering a coastal strip of low - lying land backed by mountains ,  and sloping gently seaward over a distance up to 30km or more to terminate in ice cliffs or to merge with an ice shelf .
fissure at the junction between an inland ice sheet ,  ice piedmont or ice rise and an ice shelf ,  the latter being subject to the rise and fall of the tide .
a fomite is any inanimate object or substance capable of carrying infectious organisms  ( such as germs or parasites )  and hence transferring them from one individual to another .
a dump for domestic waste .
matter in or on which organisms may live .
airborne solid particles  ( also called dust or particulate matter  ( pm )  )  or liquid droplets .
a mixture of two immiscible  ( unblendable )  substances .
a sedimentary carbonate rock and a mineral ,  both composed of calcium magnesium carbonate camg ( co3 ) 2 found in crystals .
a place where a wide variety of plants primarily categorized and documented for scientific purposes .
a facility in which animals are confined within enclosures and displayed to the public ,  and in which they may also be bred .
a research facility consisting of instruments that measure the \ nproperties of the oceans over time .
an underground layer of water - bearing permeable rock or unconsolidated materials  ( gravel ,  sand ,  silt ,  or clay )  from which groundwater can be usefully extracted using a water well .
organic matter in soil which has reached a point of stability ,  where it will break down no further and might ,  if conditions do not change ,  remain essentially as it is for centuries ,  or millennia .
a liquid or semi - liquid mixture of water and some combination of soil ,  silt ,  and clay .
an oceanographic feature that involves wind - driven motion of dense ,  cooler ,  and usually nutrient - rich water towards the ocean surface ,  replacing the warmer ,  usually nutrient - deplete surface water .
food made from milk .
milk is an opague white dairy product produced by the mammary glands of female mammals .
rock whose pieces are at least two millimeters  ( 2mm )  in its largest dimension  ( about 1 / 12 of an inch )  and no more than 75 millimeters  ( about 3 inches )  .
a hypodermic needle is a medical instrument made from a hollow needle .
a textile is a manufactured product comprised of a network of natural or artificial fibers  ( often referred to as thread or yarn )  .
bedclothing is a textile covering used on a bed as a sheet ,  blanket ,  or pillowcase .
a pockmark field is an undersea feature formed by shallow seabed depressions ,  typically several tens of metres across and a few metres deep .
nesting material is an animal habitation consisting of matierals used to cushion ,  insulate and protect the young of the organism .
livestock is an animal - associated habitat consisting of any domestic or domesticated animal intentionally raised for food or in the production of food or raised as stock to produce food or fibre ,  in an agricultural setting or for its labour or pen - raised animals raised on licensed game farm operations .
cultured habitat is an controlled habitat created by humans through laboratory techniques usually for the purposes of preparing cell ,  organ ,  tissue and plant tissue cultures .
tissue culture is the culture of cells ,  tissues or organs in a nutrient medium under sterile conditions .
cell culture is a growth of cells in vitro in an artificial medium for experimental research .
plant tissue culture is the growth or maintenance of plant cells ,  tissues ,  organs or whole plants in vitro .
organ culture is the aseptic culture of complete living organs of animals and plants outside the body in a suitable culture medium .
a natural bodily fluid or secretion such as blood ,  semen ,  saliva ,  blood plasma ,  intracellular and interstitial fluids .
blood is a bodily fluid composed of blood plasma and blood cells suspended within the plasma that circulates around the organism's body .
amniotic fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of watery liquid surrounding and cushioning a growing fetus within the amnion .
excreta are bodily fluids consisting of waste matter ,  such as sweat or feces ,  discharged from the body .
bile is a bodily fluid consisting of a bitter ,  yellow or green alkaline fluid secreted by hepatocytes from the liver of most vertebrates .
aqueous humour is a bodily fluid consisting of a thick watery substance that fills the space between the lens and the cornea .
sweat is an excreta consisting primarily of water as well as a smaller amount of sodium chloride that is excreted by the sweat glands in the skin of mammals .
chyme is a bodily fluid consisting of a liquid substance found in the stomach before passing through the pyloric valve and entering the duodenum .
blood plasma is a bodily fluid that comprises the liquid component of blood ,  in which the blood cells are suspended .
ear was is a bodily fluid consisting of a yellowish ,  waxy substance secreted in the ear canal of humans and many other mammals .
cerebrospinal fluid is a clear bodily fluid that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain .
chyle is a bodily fluid consisting of a milky fluid consisting of lymph and emulsified fats ;  formed in the small intestine during digestion of ingested fats .
breast milk is a bodily fluid produced that is secreted from two milk - secreting glandular organs on a female's chest .
vitreous humor is a bodily fluid consisting of a clear gel that fills the space between the lens and the retina of the eyeball of humans and other vertebrates .
pleural effusion is a bodily fluid that is produced in exess and accumulates in the pleural cavity ,  the fluid - filled space that surrounds the lungs .
tears is a bodily fluid consisting of a drop of the clear salty liquid secreted by glands  ( lacrimal glands )  in the eyes .
oronasal secretion is a bodily fluid secreted from the body via the mouth or nose .
saliva is a slightly alkaline secretion of water ,  mucin ,  protein ,  salts ,  and often a starch - splitting enzyme  ( as ptyalin )  that is secreted into the mouth by salivary glands ,  lubricates ingested food ,  and often begins the breakdown of starches .
sebum is an oily bodily fluid secreted from the sebaceous glads that is made of fat  ( lipids )  and the debris of dead fat - producing cells .
pus is a bodily fluid consisting of a whitish - yellow or yellow substance produced during inflammatory responses of the body that can be found in regions of pyogenic bacterial infections .
synovial fluid is a bodily fluid secreted by the synovial membrane into the joint cavity to form a thin layer at the surface of cartilage .
mucus is a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
lymph is a bodily fluid consisting of a usually clear coagulable fluid that passes from intercellular spaces of body tissue into the lymphatic vessels ,  is discharged into the blood by way of the thoracic duct and right lymphatic duct ,  and resembles blood plasma in containing white blood cells and especially lymphocytes but normally few red blood cells and no platelets .
interstitial fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of a solution which bathes and surrounds the cells of multicellular animals .
a biological product is an environmental substrate comprised of any virus ,  therapeutic serum ,  toxin ,  antitoxin ,  or analogous product available to prevent ,  treat or cure diseases or injuries in man .
siliceous ooze is a marine sediment composed of the debris of plankton with silica shells ,  such as diatoms and radiolaria .
calcareous ooze is a marine sediment composed primarily of the shells -  - also known as tests -  - of foraminifera ,  coccolithophores ,  and pteropods .
animal feed is a biotic mesoscopic physical object consisting of any foodstuff that is used specifically to feed domesticated livestock ,  such as cattle ,  goats ,  sheep ,  horses ,  chickens and pigs .
contaminated animal feed is an animal feed that has become contaminated \ nwith or come contact with microorganisms or toxic chemicals .
coastal water is a marine water body bordering a coast .
a vegetable with dark green ,  spear - shaped leaves that can be curled or smooth and are attached to thin stems .
raw milk which has not undergone the pasteurization process .
a canopy designed to protect against precipitation or sunlight .
a skin obtained from animals for human use typically from deer or cattle sources used to produce leather ,  shoes ,  fashion accessories ,  musical instruments .
a mixture of crushed and coarsely ground bones that is used as an organic fertilizer for plants and formerly in animal feed .
plant feed is a biotic mesoscopic physical object consisting of any foodstuff that is used specifically to feed plants .
a food consisting of a round or oval body laid by the female of many animals ,  consisting of an ovum surrounded by layers of membranes and an outer casing ,  which acts to nourish and protect a developing embryo and its nutrient reserves .
an egg produced by a female chicken .
a textile comprised of a pliable material made usually by weaving ,  felting ,  or knitting natural or synthetic fibers and filaments .
a soil consisting of the upper layer of soil on the surface consisting of loose material capable of supporting life composed of a mixture of mineral and organic matter .
a category of domestic birds kept for meat ,  eggs ,  and feathers including fowl such as chickens ,  turkeys ,  and waterfowls such as domestic ducks and geese and other meat birds such as pigeons and doves and games birds including pheasants .
a written message from one person to another addressed to a person or organization .
a family of hard italian cheeses made from sheep milk .
