p is a process = def .
an information content entity indicating the cause of death for a participant in the study .
a data item that is about an investigation and is the specified output of a data transformation that has only clinical visit data as input
an information content entity that is about a part of a health care encounter that occurs in a hospital facility
an information content entity that is about an activity that realizes a social role and is often performed for payment .
a categorical value specification that is about a human being and specifies whether that human being is joined to another human being in marriage
an information content entity about healthcare that is private or public .
environmental system associated with the dwelling used by humans .
a directive information entity that specifies the sequence in which a series of events occurred or will occur .
a data item that is about a population of organisms .
a population data item that is about the geographical location of a population of organisms .
a sample size that is about the count of individual organisms in a population .
a quality which inheres in a population of organisms .
a population quality concerning the sex or sexes of the population .
a population quality concerning the gender or genders of the population .
a population quality concerning the age range of a population .
a planned process that is a part of an investigation in which raw data is collected .
blood that is collected from an organism which has been fasting for a given amount of time .
a storage process for a biosample collected from an organism .
an assay that investigates the genome or genomes of an individual organism or population of organisms .
a genomic assay that profiles the microorganisms present in a sample .
a genomic assay that identifies genetic loci and candidate genes correlated with phenotypes .
a count of the number of biosamples collected for an investigation .
a material processing which prepares a biosample for investigation .
an identifier that is guaranteed to be unique among all identifiers in a particular domain .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's preference towards a range of characteristics pertaining to ,  and differentiating between ,  masculinity and femininity .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's identification with a group of other individuals on the basis of presumed similarities such as language or common ancestry .
a geographical location in which an individual was born .
a geographical location in which an individual currently resides .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virute of the bearer's highest level of formal education completed .
information that is about the structure of an individual's family and / or household .
a clinical history that is about the lifestyle and behaviors of an individual which may impact health outcomes .
a lifestyle history that is about the tobacco use or exposure of an individual .
a lifestyle history that is about the alcohol consumption of an individual .
a lifestyle history that is about the sleep quality and duration of an individual .
a lifestyle history that is about the diet and nutrition of an individual .
a textual entity that contains contact details for an individual's physician ,  which may include: name ,  phone number ,  address ,  etc .
a treatment history that is about any non - pharamacological treatments such as surgery or physical therapy .
a clinical history that is about surgical operations performed on an individual .
a clinical history that is about the prescription drugs taken by an individual .
information that is about the disease treated by a drug prescribed to an individual .
a biological process that results from a drug stimulus .
a statistic that summarizes a set of federated data .
a lifestyle history that is about the use of unprescribed and / or non - prescription drugs .
a lifestyle history that is about the typical physical activity of an individual .
a count which represents the subset of a collection chosen for an investigation ,  survey ,  or assay .
an availability textual entity that is about a substance from an organism  ( a biosample )  .
a clinical history that is about pregnancy ,  maternity ,  fertility ,  menses ,  and any other reproductive aspect .
a clinical history that is about any treatment  ( surgical ,  prescription ,  etc . ) 
a measurement datum of some aspect of human psychology .
a psychological measurement of some aspect of intellectual functions such as memory ,  problem solving ,  and comprehension .
a psychological measurement of a person's individual sets of behaviours ,  cognitions ,  and emotional patterns .
a biological process that results from neurophysiological changes in response to internal and external events .
a lifestyle history that is about oral health and hygiene .
a non - pharmacological treatment history that is about psychological treatments such as counselling .
a non - pharmacological treatment history that is about use of radiology for treatment of disease ,  disorder ,  or symptom .
a non - pharmacological treatment history that is about physical therapy treatments such as physical rehabilitation .
a psychological measurement of an individual's subjective perception of health .
a psychological measurement of an individual's perception of their quality of life .
information that is about an individual's limitations in activities that involve caring for an moving the body .
information about an individual's use of assistive devices in performing daily activities .
information about an individual's association with a religion ,  denomiation ,  or sub -  or non - denominational religious group .
an immaterial entity that encompasses the domain made up of interactions between the individual's physical environment ,  social processes ,  and relationships with other individuals and groups .
a clinical history that is about any family history of disease .
a non - pharmacological treatment history that is about diagnostic procedures to determine a condition or disease .
a cognitive measurement that is an output  ( score )  from the alzheimer's disease assessment scale .
a cognitive measurement that is an output  ( score )  from the mini - mental state exam .
information about the language an individual has been exposed to from birth and is their first language .
a cognitive measurement that is the output  ( score )  from the montreal cognitive assessment test  ( moca )  for dementia
a cognitive measurement that is the output  ( score )  from the cerad neurophyschological battery .
a cognitive measurement that is the output  ( score )  from the penn computerized neurocognitive battery .
a disorder that is present at birth due to genetics or environmental factors during development .
a cognitive measurement that is the output  ( score )  from the severe impairment battery .
a cognitive measurement that is the output  ( score )  from the neuropsychiatric inventory .
a cognitive measurement that is the output  ( score )  from the clinical dementia rating scale .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
a textual entity is a part of a manifestation  ( frbr sense )  ,  a generically dependent continuant whose concretizations are patterns of glyphs intended to be interpreted as words ,  formulas ,  etc .
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
a textual entity expressing the location of a resource ,  e .g .
a textual entity that documents the consenting process used to enroll patients in a study .
an identifier is an information content entity that is the outcome of a dubbing process and is used to refer to one instance of entity shared by a group of people to refer to that individual entity .
a disease is a disposition to undergo pathological processes that exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
a disease involving the integumental system .
a disease involving the musculoskeletal system .
a disease involving the renal system .
a disease or disorder that involves the digestive system .
a tumor composed of atypical neoplastic ,  often pleomorphic cells that invade other tissues .
a disease involving the cardiovascular system .
a disease involving the reproductive system .
a disorder resulting from an abnormality in the immune system .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the brain ,  spinal cord ,  or peripheral nerves .
a disease that has its basis in the disruption of mental process .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the respiratory system .
a disease involving the endocrine system .
a disorder resulting from the presence and activity of a microbial ,  viral ,  or parasitic agent .
a disease involving the hematopoietic system .
damage inflicted on the body as the direct or indirect result of an external force ,  with or without disruption of structural continuity .
a disease that involves the visual system .
pathological processes of the ear ,  the nose ,  and the throat ,  also known as the ent diseases .
a condition or physical state produced by the ingestion ,  injection ,  inhalation of or exposure to a deleterious agent .
a process that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
an assay that produces a picture of an entity .
an assay which generates data about a genotype from a specimen of genomic dna .
an assay that determines lost or amplified genomic regions of dna by comparing genomic dna originating from tissues from the same or different individuals using specific techniques such as cgh ,  array cgh ,  snp genotyping
an transcription profiling assay that determines an rna sequence by analyzing the transcibed regions of the genome and or to quantitate transcript abundance .
an assay that identifies the organism species in a specimen .
an assay that identifies epigenetic modifications including histone modifications ,  open chromatin ,  and dna methylation .
a dna sequencing assay that intends to provide information about the sequence of an entire genome of an organism .
a dna sequencing assay that intends to provide information about the sequence of the protein coding components of a genome  ( exons )  .
a information content entity that indicates the exposure of an individual to carcinogens in the workplace or environment .
a dna sequencing assay that intends to provide information on the dna sequences of multiple genomes  ( a metagenome )  from different organisms present in the same input sample .
a maintenance process by which material entities that are not actively metabolizing are placed in well identified location and possibly under controlled environment in ad - hoc devices / structures in order to preserve and protect them from decay / alteration and maintain availability
a plan specification comprised of protocols  ( which may specify how and what kinds of data will be gathered )  that are executed as part of an investigation and is realized during a study design execution .
an inclusion criterion  ( rule )  is_a *eligibility criterion*  which defines and states a condition which ,  if met ,  makes an entity suitable for a given task or participation in a given process .
a series of statements representing health - relevant qualities of a patient and of a patient's family .
a process experienced by the patient ,  which can only be experienced by the patient ,  that is hypothesized to be clinically relevant .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
a material entity that consists of two or more organisms ,  viruses ,  or viroids .
a health care prescription specifying the initiation ,  modification or cessation of a drug administration .
a drug administration description that specifies a drug administration prescribed or reported by an healthcare provider .
a statistic is a measurement datum to describe a dataset or a variable .
a count is a data item denoted by an integer and represented the number of instances or occurences of an entity
information about a calendar date or timestamp indicating day ,  month ,  year and time of an event .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
a fluid produced in the oral cavity by salivary glands ,  typically used in predigestion ,  but also in other functions .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
